[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Emory 1AC - The Cat's Cradle== 
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Call me Jonah. My parents did, or nearly did. They called me John. Jonah-John-if I had been a Sam, I would have been a Jonah still-not because I have been unlucky for others, but because somebody or something has compelled me to be certain places at certain times, without fail</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Conveyances and motives, both conventional and bizarre, have been provided.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> And, according to plan, at each appointed second, at each appointed place this Jonah was there. Listen: When I was a younger man-two wives ago, 250,000 cigarettes ago, 3,000 quarts of booze ago.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> . . When I was a much younger man, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">I began to collect material for a book to be called The Day the World Ended.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> The book was to be factual. The book was to be</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> an account of what</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> important </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Americans had done</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> on the day </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">when the </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">first </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Japan. It was to be a Christian book. I was a Christian then. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">I am a Bokononist now</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. I would have been a Bokononist then, if there had been anyone to teach me the bittersweet lies of Bokonon</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> But Bokononism was unknown beyond the gravel beaches and coral knives that ring this little island in the Caribbean Sea, the Republic of San Lorenzo. We Bokononists believe that humanity is organized into teams, teams that do God's Will without ever discovering what they are doing. Such a team is called a karass by Bokonon, and the instrument, the kan-kan, that brought me into my own particular karass was the book I never finished, the book to be called The Day the World Ended. If you find your life tangled up with somebody else's life for no very logical reasons," writes Bokonon, "that person may be a member of your karass." At another point in The Books of</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> Bokonon</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> he </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">tells us, "Man created the checkerboard; God created the karass." </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">By that he means that </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">a karass ignores national, institutional, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">occupational, familial</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">, and class boundaries. It is as free-form as an </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">amoeba Nowhere does Bokonon warn against a person's trying to discover the limits of his karass and the nature of the work God Almighty has had it do. Bokonon simply observes that such investigations are bound to be incomplete. In the autobiographical section of The Books of Bokonon he writes a parable on the folly of pretending to discover, to understand: I once knew</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> a</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">n Episcopalian </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">lady</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in Newport, Rhode Island, who asked me to design and build a doghouse for her Great Dane. The lady </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">claimed to understand God and His Ways of Working perfectly.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> She could not understand why anyone should be puzzled about what had been or about what was going to be. And yet, when I showed her a blueprint of the doghouse I proposed to build, she said to me, "I'm sorry, but I never could read one of those things.""Give it to your husband or your minister to pass on to God," I said, "and, when God finds a minute, I'm sure he'll explain this doghouse of mine in a way that even you can understand." She fired me. I shall never forget her. She believed that God liked people in sailboats much better than He liked people in motorboats. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">She could not bear to look at a worm.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> When she saw a worm, she screamed. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">She was a fool, and so am I, and so is anyone who thinks he sees what God is Doing,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [writes Bokonon]. Be that as it may, I intend in this book to include as many members of my karass as possible, and I mean to examine all strong hints as to what on Earth we, collectively, have been up to. I do not intend that this book be a tract on behalf of Bokononism. I should like to offer a Bokononist warning about it, however. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">The first sentence in The Books of Bokonon is </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">this: </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">"All of the</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> true </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">things I am about to tell you are </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">shameless </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">lies." My</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Bokononist </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">warning</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in this: </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Anyone unable to understand how a useful religion can be founded on lies will not understand this book either. So be it</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Kurt Vonnegut, 47 years ago, confronted the current sociopolitical world and all of its rationality within the pages of //Cat’s Cradle//. He stared at the world and laughed in its face, uncovering the dark presence of ourselves, religion, war, and the western world. Jonah, after discovering Bokononism, the anti-religion-religion, becomes a prophet of absurdity – the bringer of untruth. In this sense, cat's cradle becomes the anti-text. The anti-text acts in opposition of the “text”, of modern western thought and actions that breed truth, religion, and war. The debate community looks towards the holy altar that is the resolution in an attempt to understand war and the world around us, a “platinum blond jesus” – a salvation promising nihilist . Instead of afterlife, however, the resolution promises a starting point for understanding the world at large. But this understanding will not be found within the text; only in the anti-text can we uncover the actual absurdity that has become embedded within our world and our discussions and combat the truth that perpetuates war and allows for[[#__RefHeading__15180_87881831]] understanding of the functioning of world. Or perhaps nothing at all...</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Minguez</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">Part 1 Cat’s … suggestion as well.</span>

Vonnegut says again:
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I went out</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> onto the giddy terrace that straddled the waterfall </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and found</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> little </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newt </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">asleep in a yellow butterfly chair.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The painting on which Newt had been working was</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">set on an easel next to the aluminum railing. The painting was framed in a misty view of sky, sea, and valley. Newt's painting was </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">small and black and warty. It consisted of scratches</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> made in a black, gummy impasto. The scratches </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">formed a sort of spider's web</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and I wondered if they might not be the sticky nets of human futility hung up on a moonless night to dry. I did not wake up the midget who had made this dreadful thing. I smoked, listening to imagined voices in the water sounds. What awakened little Newt was an explosion far away below. It caromed up the valley and went to God. It was a cannon on the water front of Bolivar, Frank's major-domo told me. It was fired every day at five. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Little Newt stirred.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While still half-snoozing, he put his black, painty hands to his mouth and chin, leaving black smears there. He rubbed his eyes and made black smears around them, too</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. __"Hello," he said__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to me, sleepily. "</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hello," I said. "I like your painting."</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "You see what it is?" "I suppose it means something different to everyone who sees it." </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"It's a cat's cradle." </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Aha," I said. "Very good.\\\\Right?" </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"One of the oldest games there is, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cat's cradle. Even the Eskimos know." "You don't say." </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"For maybe a hundred thousand years </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or more,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> grownups have been waving of string in their children's faces."</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Um." Newt remained curled in the chair. He held out his painty hands as though a cat's cradle were strung between them. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"No wonder kids grow up crazy. A cat's cradle is nothing but a bunch of X's between somebody's hands, and little kids look and look and look at all those X's.." "And?" "No damn cat, and no damn cradle."</span>__</span>

<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">We affirm the anti-text: a rejection and act of resistance to the very text, or scripted truth, which has become a starting point for understanding the world and ourselves. This year's text, resolved: the United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey, presents a means by[[#__RefHeading__15186_87881831]] which we can confront war, sovereignty, or militarism within our debate space but fails to confront its own warlike fascism and destruction. The anti-text takes us not only where the text does not, but allows us to dissolve rational society and its presence within ourselves, the world, and the debate community—a moment where human thought and its perpetuation of truth and violence can be confronted with its true self and its absurdity.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Minguez</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kurt Vonnegut’s Cat’s …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> banner of truth.</span>__</span>

Vonnegut says again
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Papa" Monzano and his</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">merciless</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __disease were in a bed__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that was made of a golden dinghy—tiller, painter, oarlocks and all, all gilt. His bed was the lifeboat of Bokonon's old schooner</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the _Lady's Slipper_; it was the lifeboat of the ship that had brought Bokonon and Corporal McCabe to San Lorenzo so long ago. The walls of the room were white. But "Papa" radiated pain so hot and bright that the walls seemed bathed in angry red. He was stripped from the waist up, and, his glistening belly wall was knotted. His belly shivered like a luffing sail. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Around his neck hung a chain with</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a cylinder the size of a rifle cartridge for a pendant. I supposed that the cylinder contained some magic charm. I was mistaken. It contained</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __a splinter of ice-nine.__ "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Papa" could hardly speak. His teeth chattered and his breathing was beyond control. "Papa's" agonized head was at the bow of the dinghy, bent back. Mona's xylophone was near the bed. She had apparently tried to soothe "Papa" with music the previous evening. "'Papa'?" whispered Frank. "Good-bye," "Papa" gasped. His eyes were bugging, sightless. "I brought a friend." "Good-bye." "He's going to be the next President of San Lorenzo. He'll be a much better President than I could be." "Ice!" "Papa" whimpered. "He asks for ice," said Von Koenigswald. "When we bring it, he does not want it." "Papa" rolled his eyes. He relaxed his neck, took the weight of his body from the crown of his head. And then he arched his neck again. "Does not matter," he said, "who is President of . . ." He did not finish. I finished for him. "San Lorenzo?" "San Lorenzo," he agreed. He managed a crooked smile. "Good luck!" he croaked. "Thank you, sir," I said. "Doesn't matter! Bokonon. Get Bokonon." I attempted a sophisticated reply to this last. I remembered that, for the joy of the people, Bokonon was always to be chased, was never to be caught. "I will get him." "Tell him . . ." I leaned closer, in order to hear the message from "Papa" to Bokonon. "Tell him I am sorry I did not kill him," said "Papa." "I will." "_You_ kill him." "Yessir." "Papa" gained control enough of his voice to make it commanding. "I mean _really!_" I said nothing to that. I was not eager to kill anyone. "He teaches the people lies and lies and lies. Kill him and teach the people truth." "Yessir." "You and Hoenikker, you teach them science." "Yessir, we will," I promised. "Science is magic that _works_." He fell silent, relaxed, closed his eyes. And then he whispered, "Last rites." Von Koenigswald called Dr. Vox Humana in. Dr. Humana took his tranquilized chicken out of the hatbox, preparing to administer Christian last rites as he understood them. "Papa" opened one eye. "Not you," he sneered at Dr. Humana. "Get out!" "Sir?" asked Dr. Humana. "I am a member of the Bokononist faith," "Papa" wheezed. "Get out, you stinking Christian." So I was privileged to see the last rites of the Bokononist faith. We made an effort to find someone among the soldiers and the household staff who would admit that he knew the rites and would give them to "Papa." We got no volunteers. That was hardly surprising, with a hook and an oubliette so near. So Dr. von Koenigswald said that he would have a go at the job. He had never administered the rites before, but he had seen Julian Castle do it hundreds of times. "Are you a Bokononist?" I asked him. "I agree with one Bokononist idea. I agree that all religions, including Bokononism, are nothing but lies." "Will this bother you as a scientist," I inquired, "to go through a ritual like this?" "I am a very bad scientist. I will do anything to make a human being feel better, even if it's unscientific. No scientist worthy of the name could say such a thing." And he climbed into the golden boat with "Papa." He sat in the stern. Cramped quarters obliged him to have the golden tiller under one arm. He wore sandals without socks, and he took these off. And then he rolled back the covers at the foot of the bed, exposing "Papa's" bare feet. He put the soles of his feet against "Papa's" feet, assuming the classical position for _boko-maru_. But "Papa" didn't die and go to heaven--not then. As it happened--"As it was supposed_to happen," Bokonon would say-- albatross meat disagreed with me so violently that I was ill the moment I'd choked the first piece down. I was compelled to canter down the stone spiral staircase in search of a bathroom. I availed myself of one adjacent to "Papa's" suite. When I shuffled out, somewhat relieved, I was met by Dr. Schlichter von Koenigswald, who was bounding from "Papa's" bedroom. He had a wild look, and he took me by the arms and he cried, "What is it? What was it he had hanging around his neck?" "I beg your pardon?" "He took it! </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whatever was in that cylinder, 'Papa' took--and now he's dead</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." I remembered the cylinder "Papa" had hung around his neck, and I made an obvious guess as to its contents. "Cyanide?" "Cyanide? Cyanide turns a man to cement in a second?" "Cement?" "Marble! Iron! I have never seen such a rigid corpse before. Strike it anywhere and you get a note like a marimba! Come look!" Von Koenigswald hustled me into "Papa's" bedroom. In bed, in the golden dinghy, was a hideous thing to see. "Papa" was dead, but his was not a corpse to which one could say, "At rest at last." 'Papa's" head was bent back as far as it would go. His weight rested on the crown of his head and the soles of his feet, with the rest of his body forming a bridge whose arch thrust toward the ceiling. He was shaped like an andiron. That he had died of the contents of the cylinder around his neck was obvious. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">One hand held the cylinder and the cylinder was uncapped. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And the thumb and index finger of the other hand, as though having just released a little pinch of something, were stuck between his teeth. Dr. von Koenigswald slipped the tholepin of an oarlock from its socket in the gunwale of the gilded dinghy. He tapped "Papa" on his belly with the steel oarlock, and "Papa" really did make a sound like a marimba. And </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Papa's" lips and nostrils and eyeballs were glazed with a blue-white frost. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such a syndrome is no novelty now, God knows. But it certainly was then. "Papa" Monzano was the first man in history to die of ice-nine. I record that fact for whatever it may be worth. "Write it all down," Bokonon tells us. Dr. von Koenigswald, the humanitarian with the terrible deficit of Auschwitz in his kindliness account, was the second to die of _ice-nine_. He was talking about rigor mortis, a subject I had introduced. "Rigor mortis does not set in in seconds," he declared. "I turned my back to 'Papa' for just a moment. He was raving . . ." "What about?" I asked. "Pain, ice, Mona--everything. And then 'Papa' said, 'Now I will destroy the whole world.'" "What did he mean by that?" "It's what Bokononists always say when they are about to commit suicide." Von Koenigswald went to a basin of water, meaning to wash his hands. "When I turned to look at him," he told me, his hands poised over the water, "he was dead--as hard as a statue, just as you see him. I brushed my fingers over his lips. They looked so peculiar." He put his hands into the water. "What chemical could possibly . . ."The question trailed off. Von Koenigswald raised his hands, and the </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">water in the basin</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">came with them. It</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> was</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> no longer water, but </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a hemisphere of ice-nine</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Von</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Koenigswald touched</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the tip of __his tongue[[#__RefHeading__15190_87881831]] to the blue-white mystery.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frost bloomed on his lips. He</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __froze solid, tottered, and crashed.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blue-white hemisphere shattered. Chunks skittered over the floor. I went to the door and bawled for help. Soldiers and servants came running. I ordered them to bring Frank and Newt and Angela to "Papa's" room at once. At last I had seen _ice-nine!_...Our work in "Papa's" bedroom was done at last. But the bodies still had to be carried to the funeral pyre. We decided that this should be done with pomp, that we should put it off until the ceremonies in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy were over. The last thing we did was stand Von Koenigswald on his feet in order to decontaminate the place where he had been lying. And then we hid him, standing up, in "Papa's" clothes closet. I'm not quite sure why we hid him. I think it must have been to simplify the tableau. As for Newt's and Angela's and Frank's tale of how they divided up the world's supply of _ice-nine_ on Christmas Eve--it petered out when they got to details of the crime itself. The Hoenikkers couldn't remember that anyone said anything to justify their taking _ice-nine_ as personal property. They talked about what _ice-nine_ was, recalling the old man's brain-stretchers, but there was no talk of morals. "Who did the dividing?" I inquired. So thoroughly had the three Hoenikkers obliterated their memories of the incident that it was difficult for them to give me even that fundamental detail. "It wasn't Newt," said Angela at last. "I'm sure of ihat." "It was either you or me," mused Frank, thinking hard. "You got the three Mason jars off the kitchen shelf," said Angela. "It wasn't until the next day that we got the three little Thermos jugs." "That's right," Frank agreed. "And then you took an ice pick and chipped up the _ice-nine_ in the saucepan." "That's right," said Angela. "I did. And then somebody brought tweezers from the bathroom." Newt raised his little hand. "I did." Angela and Newt were amazed, remembering how enterprising little Newt had been. "I was the one who picked up the chips and put them in the Mason jars," Newt recounted. He didn't bother to hide the swagger he must have felt. "What did you people do with the dog?" I asked limply. "We put him in the oven," Frank told me. "It was the only thing to do." "History!" writes Bokonon. "Read it and weep!" There were many, many secrets that day. Busy, busy, busy. I supposed that the ceremonies might as well begin, and I told Frank to suggest to Ambassador Horlick Minton that he deliver his speech. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ambassador Minton</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">went to the seaward parapet with his memorial wreath still in its case. And he </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">delivered a</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n amazing </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">speech </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy. He dignified the dead, their country, and the life that was over for them by saying the "Hundred Martyrs to Democracy" in island dialect. That fragment of dialect was graceful and easy on his lips. The rest of his speech was in American English. He had a written speech with him--fustian and bombast, I imagine. But, when he found he was going to speak to so few, and to fellow Americans for the most part, he put the formal speech away. A light sea wind ruffled his thinning hair. "I am about to do a very unambassadorial thing," he declared. "I am about to tell you what I really feel." Perhaps Minton had inhaled too much acetone, or perhaps he had an inkling of what was about to happen to everybody but me. At any rate, it was a strikingly Bokononist speech he gave. "We are gathered here, friends," he said, "to honor _lo Hoon-yera Moratoorz tut Zamoo-cratz-ya_, children dead, all dead, all murdered in war. It is customary on days like this to call such lost children men. I am unable to call them men for this simple reason: that in the same war in which _lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut Zamoo cratz-ya_ died, my own son died. "My soul insists that I mourn not a man but a child. "I do not say that children at war do not die like men, if they have to die. To their everlasting honor and our everlasting shame they do die like men, thus making possible the manly jubilation of patriotic holidays. "But they are murdered children all the same. "And I propose to you that if we are to pay our sincere respects to the hundred lost children of San Lorenzo, that we might best spend the day despising what killed them; which is to say, the stupidity and viciousness of all mankind. "Perhaps, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">when we remember wars, we should take off our clothes and paint ourselves blue and go on all fours all day long and grunt like pigs. That would</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">surely</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __be more appropriate than noble oratory and shows of flags and well-oiled guns.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"I do not mean to be ungrateful for the fine, martial show we are about to see--and a thrilling show it really will be . . ." He looked each of us in the eye, and then he commented very softly, throwing it away, "And hooray say I for thrilling shows." We had to strain our ears to hear what Minton said next. "But if today is really in honor of a hundred children murdered in war," he said, "is today a day for a thrilling show? "The answer is yes, on one condition: that we, the celebrants, are working consciously and tirelessly to reduce the stupidity and viciousness of ourselves and of all mankind." He unsnapped the catches on his wreath case. "See what I have brought?" he asked us. He opened the case and showed us the scarlet lining and the golden wreath. The wreath was made of wire and artificial laurel leaves, and the whole was sprayed with radiator paint. The wreath was spanned by a cream colored silk ribbon on which was printed, "PRO PATRIA." Minton now recited a poem from Edgar Lee Masters' the _Spoon River Anthology_, a poem that must have been incomprehensible to the San Lorenzans in the audience--and to H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel, too, for that matter, and to Angela and Frank. I was the first fruits of the battle of Missionary Ridge. When I felt the bullet enter my heart I wished I had staid at home and gone to jail For stealing the hogs of Curl Trenary, Instead of running away and joining the army. Rather a thousand times the county jail Than to lie under this marble figure with wings, And this granite pedestal Bearing the words, "_Pro Patria_." What do they mean, anyway? "What do they mean, anyway?" echoed Ambassador Horlick Minton. "They mean, 'For one's country.'" And he threw away another line. "Any country at all," he murmured. "This wreath I bring is a gift from the people of one country to the people of another. Never mind which countries. Think of people . . . "And children murdered in war. "And any country at all. "Think of peace. "Think of brotherly love. "Think of plenty. "Think of what paradise, this world would be if men were kind and wise. "As stupid and vicious as men are, this is a lovely day," said Ambassador Horlick Minton. "I, in my own heart and as a representative of the peace-loving people of the United States of America, Pity _lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut Zamoo- cratz-ya_ for being dead on this fine day." And he sailed the wreath off the parapet. There was a hum in the air. The</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __six planes__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the San Lorenzan Air Force</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __were coming__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, skimming my lukewarm sea. They were going to shoot thxe effigies of what H. Lowe Crosby had called "practically every enemy that freedom ever had." We went to the seaward parapet to see the show. The planes were no larger than grains of black pepper. We were able to spot them because one, as it happened, was trailing smoke. We supposed that the smoke was part of the show. I stood next to H. Lowe Crosby, who, as it happened, was alternately eating albatross and drinking native rum. He exhaled fumes of model airplane cement between lips glistening with albatross fat. My recent nausea returned. I withdrew to the landward parapet alone, gulping air. There were sixty feet of old stone pavement between me and all the rest. I saw that the planes would be coming in low, below the footings of the castle, and that I would miss the show. But nausea made me incurious. I turned my head in the direction of their now snarling approach. Just as their guns began to hammer,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> one plane</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the one that had been trailing smoke, suddenly appeared, belly up, in flames. It dropped from my line of sight again and </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">crashed </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at once into the cliff below the castle. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Its bombs and fuel exploded.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The surviving planes went booming on, their racket thinning down to a mosquito hum. And then there was the sound of a rockslide--and one great tower of "Papa's" castle, undermined, crashed down to the sea. The people on the seaward parapet looked in astonishment at the empty socket where the tower had stood. Then I could hear rockslides of all sizes in a conversation that was almost orchestral. The conversation went very fast, and new voices entered in. They were the voices of the castle's timbers lamenting that their burdens were becoming too great. And then a crack crossed the battlement like lightning, ten feet from my curling toes. It separated me from my fellow men. The castle groaned and wept aloud. The others comprehended their peril. They, along with tons of masonry, were about to lurch out and down. Although the crack was only a foot wide, people began to cross it with heroic leaps. Only my complacent Mona crossed the crack with a simple step. The crack gnashed shut; opened wider, leeringly. Still trapped on the canted deathtrap were H. Lowe</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Crosby</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">his Hazel and</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ambassador Horlick</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Minton and his Claire.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philip Castle and Frank and I reached across the abyss to haul the Crosbys to safety. Our arms were now extended imploringly to the Mintons. Their expressions were bland. I can only guess what was going through their minds. My guess is that they were</span>[[#__RefHeading__15192_87881831]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">thinking of dignity, of emotional proportion above all else. Panic was not their style. I doubt that suicide was their style either. But their good manners killed them, for the doomed crescent of castle now moved away from us like an ocean liner moving away from a dock. The image of a voyage seems to have occurred to the voyaging Mintons, too, for they waved to us with wan amiability. They held hands. They faced the sea. Out they went; then </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">down they went in a cataclysmic rush, were gone!</span>__</span>

<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Alas, we are amidst Mt McCabe – the location that marks the end of human stupidity and the reliance upon the text as a means of understanding the world. As the timer draws towards the end of the 1AC, so does the end of Vonnegut's satirical world. Ice nine has created a state of paralysis and has killed all but few. Our prophet Jonah, faced with the death of his lover and his fellow human race, becomes a monument of resistance and marks the end of human thought and its quest for truth by wasting away into oblivion.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Minguez</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Part 4: The Cataclysmic …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to render so.</span>__[[#__RefHeading__15194_87881831]]</span>

Vonnegut says one last time
<span style="margin-top: 12pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ragged rim of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">oblivion was</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">inches from my</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> curling</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> toes.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I looked down. My lukewarm sea had swallowed all. A lazy curtain of dust was wafting out to sea, the only trace of all that fell. The palace, its massive, seaward mask now gone, greeted the north with a leper's smile, snaggle-toothed and bristly. The bristles were the splintered ends of timbers. Immediately below me a large chamber had been laid open. The floor of that chamber, unsupported, stabbed out into space like a diving platform. I dreamed for a moment of dropping to the platform, of springing up from it in a breath-taking swan dive, of folding my arms, of knifing downward into a blood-warm eternity with never a splash. I was recalled from this dream by the cry of a darting bird above me. It seemed to be asking me what had happened. "Pootee-phweet?" it asked. We all looked up at the bird, and then at one another. We backed away from the abyss, full of dread. And, when I stepped off the paving stone that had supported me, the stone began to rock. It was no more stable than a teetertotter. And it tottered nowover the diving platform. Down it crashed onto the platform, made the platform a chute. And down the chute came the furnishings still remaining in the room below. A xylophone shot out first, scampering fast on its tiny wheels. Out came a bedside table in a crazy race with a bounding blowtorch. Out came chairs in hot pursuit. And somewhere in that room below, out of sight, something mightily reluctant to move was beginning to move. Down the chute it crept. At last it showed its golden bow. It was the boat in which dead "Papa" lay. It reached the end of the chute. Its bow nodded. Down it tipped. Down it fell, end over end. "Papa" was thrown clear, and he fell separately. I closed my eyes. There was a sound like that of the gentle closing of a portal as big as the sky, the great door of heaven being closed softly. It was a grand AH-WHOOM. I opened my eyes--and all the sea was _ice-nine_. The moist green earth was a blue-white pearl. The sky darkened. The sun, became a sickly yellow ball, tiny and cruel. The sky was filled with worms. The worms were tornadoes. I looked up at the sky where the bird had been. An enormous worm with a violet mouth was directly overhead. It buzzed like bees. It swayed. With obscene peristalsis, it ingested air. We humans separated; fled my shattered battlements tumbled down staircases on the landward side. Only H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel cried out. "American! American!" they cried, as though tornadoes were interested in the _granfalloons_ to which their victims belonged. I could not see the Crosbys. They had descended by another staircase. Their cries and the sounds of others, panting and running, came gabbling to me through a corridor of the castle. My only companion was my heavenly Mona, who had followed noiselessly. When I hesitated, she slipped past me and opened the door to the anteroom of "Papa's" suite. The walls and roof of the anteroom were gone. But the stone floor remained. And in its center was the manhole cover of the oubliette.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __Under the wormy sky,__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the flickering violet light from the mouths of tornadoes that wished to eat us, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I lifted the cover. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The esophagus</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __of the dungeon__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">was fitted with iron rungs. I replaced the manhole cover from within.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Down those iron rungs we went. And at the foot</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the ladder </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we found </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a state secret. "Papa" Monzano had caused </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a cozy bomb shelter</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be constructed there. It had a ventilation shaft, with a fan driven by a stationary bicycle. A tank of water was recessed in one wall. The water was sweet and wet, as yet untainted by _ice-nine_. And there was a chemical toilet, and a short-wave radio, and a Sears, Roebuck catalogue; and there were cases of delicacies, and liquor, and candles; and there were bound copies of the _National Geographic_ going back twenty years. And there was a set of _The Books of Bokonon_. And there were twin beds. I lighted a candle. I opened a can of campbell's chicken gumbo soup and I put it on a Sterno stove. And I poured two glasses of Virgin Islands rum. Mona sat on one bed. I sat down on the other. "I am about to say something that must have been said by men to women several times before," I informed her. "However, I don't believe that these words have ever carried quite the freight they carry now.""Oh?" I spread my hands. "Here we are." The Sixth Book of The Books of Bokonon_ is devoted to pain, in particular to tortures inflicted by men on men. "If I am ever put to death on the hook," Bokonon warns us, "expect a very human performance." Then he speaks of the rack and the peddiwinkus and the iron maiden and the _veglia_ and the oubliette. In any case, there's bound to be much crying. But the oubliette alone will let you think while dying. And so it was in Mona's and my rock womb. At least we could think. And one thing I thought was that the creature comforts of the dungeon did nothing to mitigate the basic fact of oubliation. During our first day and night underground, tornadoes rattled our manhole cover many times an hour. Each time the pressure in our hole would drop suddenly, and our ears would pop and our heads would ring. As for the radio--there was crackling, fizzing static and that was all. From one end of the short-wave band to the other not one word, not one telegrapher's beep, did I hear. If life still existed here and there, it did not broadcast. Nor does life broadcast to this day. This I assumed: tornadoes, strewing the poisonous blue-white frost of ice-nine everywhere, tore everyone and everything above ground to pieces. Anything that still lived would die soon enough of thirst—or hunger--or rage-- or apathy. I turned to _The Books of Bokonon_, still sufficiently unfamiliar with them to believe that they contained spiritual comfort somewhere. I passed quickly over the warning on the title page of _The First Book_: "Don't be a fool! Close this book at once! It is nothing but _foma!_" _Foma_, of course, are lies"Today I will be a Bulgarian Minister of Education," Bokonon tells us. "Tomorrow I will be Helen of Troy." His meaning is crystal clear: Each one of us has to be what he or she is. And, down in the oubliette, that was mainly what I thought--with the help of _The Books of Bokonon_. Bokonon invited me to sing along with him: We do, doodley do, doodley do, doodley do, What we must, muddily must, muddily must, muddily must; Muddily do, muddily do, muddily do, muddily do, Until we bust, bodily bust, bodily bust, bodily bust. There were no smells. There was no movement. Every step I took made a gravelly squeak in blue-white frost. And every squeak was echoed loudly. The season of locking was over. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The earth was locked up tight. It was winter, now and forever. I helped my Mona out </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of our hole. I warned her to keep her hands away from the blue-white frost and to keep her hands away from her mouth, too</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. __"Death has never been quite so easy to come by," I told her. "All you have to do is touch the ground and then your lips and you're done for."__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> She shook her head and sighed. "A very bad mother." "What?" "Mother Earth--she isn't a very good mother any more." I recalled an advertisement for a set of children's books called _The Book of Knowledge_. In that ad, a trusting boy and girl looked up at their father. "Daddy," one asked, "what makes the sky blue?" The answer, presumably, could be found in _The Book of Knowledge_. If I had had my daddy beside me as Mona and I walked down the road from the palace, I would have had plenty of questions to ask as I clung to his hand. "Daddy, why are all the trees broken? Daddy, why are all the birds dead? Daddy, what makes the sky so sick and wormy? Daddy, what makes the sea so hard and still?" It occurred to me that I was better qualified to answer those tough questions than any other human being, provided there were any other human beings alive. In case anyone was interested, I knew what had gone wrong-- where and how. So what? I wondered where the dead could be. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mona and I ventured more than a mile</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from our oubliette </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">without seeing one dead human being.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I wasn't half so curious about the living, probably because I sensed accurately that I would first have to contemplate a lot of dead. I saw no columns of smoke from possible campfires; but they would have been hard to see against an horizon of worms. One thing did catch my eye: a lavender corona about the queer plug that was </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the peak</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the hump</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __of Mount McCabe.__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">It</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __seemed to be calling me__, __and__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">I had a silly, cinematic notion of climbing that peak with Mona</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">But what would it mean? We were walking into the wrinkles now at the foot of Mount McCabe. And Mona, as though aimlessly, left my side, left the road, and climbed one of the wrinkles. I followed.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> I joined her at the top</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the ridge. She was looking down raptly into a broad, natural bowl. She was not crying. She might well have cried. In that bowl were thousands upon thousands of dead. On the lips of each decedent was the blue-white frost of</span>[[#__RefHeading__15196_87881831]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ice-nine. Mona and I looked at the focus of all those frosted eyes, looked at the center of the bowl</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There was a round clearing there, a place in which one orator might have stood. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mona and I</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> approached the clearing gingerly, avoiding the morbid statuary. We </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">found a boulder</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in it. And </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">under the boulder was a penciled note which said: To whom it may concern: These people around you are almost all of the survivors on San Lorenzo</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the winds that followed the freezing of the sea</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These people made a captive of the spurious holy man named Bokonon. They brought him here, placed him at their center, and commanded him to tell them exactly what God Almighty was up to and what they should now do. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The mountebank told them that God was surely trying to kill them, possible because He was through with them, and that they should have the good manners to die</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> as you can see, they did. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The note was</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> signed by Bokonon.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Now </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mona laughed. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I had never heard her laugh. Her laugh was startlingly deep and raw. "This strikes you as _funny?_" She raised her arms lazily. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"It's all so simple,</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that's all.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> It solves so much for so many, so simply." And she went strolling up among the petrified thousands, still laughing.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> She paused about midway up the slope and faced me. She called down to me, "Would you wish any of these alive again, if you could? Answer me quickly. "Not quick enough with your answer," she called playfully, after half a minute had passed. And, still laughing a little, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">she touched her finger to the ground, straightened up, and touched the finger to her lips and died. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Did I weep? They say I did A curious six months followed--the six months in which I wrote this book. Hazel spoke accurately when she called our little society the Swiss Family Robinson, for we had survived a storm, were isolated, and then the living became very easy indeed. It was not without a certain Walt Disney charm. No plants or animals survived, it's true. But _ice-nine_ preserved pigs and cows and little deer and windrows of birds and berries until we were ready to thaw and cook them. Moreover, there were tons of canned goods to be had for the grubbing in the ruins of Bolivar. And we seemed to be the only people left on San Lorenzo. Food was no problem, and neither were clothing or shelter, for the weather was uniformly dry and dead and hot. Our health was monotonously good. Apparently all the germs were dead, too, or napping. "Such a depressing religion!" I cried. I directed our conversation into the area of Utopias, of what might have been, of what should have been, of what might yet be, if the world would thaw. But Bokonon had been there, too, had written a whole book about Utopias, The Seventh Book_, which he called "Bokonon's Republic." I spoke of</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">meaningful, individual heroic acts. I praised in particular the way in which Julian Castle and his son had chosen to die. While the tornadoes still raged, they had set out on foot for the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle to give whatever hope and mercy was theirs to give. And I saw magnificence in the way poor Angela had died, too. She had picked up a clarinet in the ruins of Bolivar and had begun to play it at once, without concerning herself as to whether the mouthpiece might be contaminated with _ice-nine_. "Soft pipes, play on," I murmured huskily</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> "Well, maybe you can find some neat way to die, too," said Newt. It was a Bokononist thing to say. I blurted out my dream of climbing Mount McCabe with some magnificent symbol and planting it there."Here it is, the end of the world; and here I am, almost the very last man; and there it is, the highest mountain in sight. I know now what my _karass_ has been up to, Newt. It's been working night and day for maybe half a million years to get me up that mountain." I wagged my head and nearly wept. "But what, for the love of God, is supposed to be in my hands?" I looked out of the car window blindly as I asked that, so blindly that I went more than a mile before realizing that I had looked into the eyes of an old Negro man, a living colored man, who was sitting by the side of the road. And then I slowed down. And then I stopped. I covered my eyes. "What's the matter?" asked Newt. "</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">I saw Bokonon</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">back there." He was sitting on a rock</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">He was</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> __barefoot.__ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">His</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> feet were frosty with ice-nine.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> His only garment was a white bedspread with blue tufts. The tufts said Casa Mona. He took no note of our arrival. In one hand was a pencil. In the other was paper.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> "Bokonon?" </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">"Yes?"</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> "</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">May I ask</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> __what you're thinking?" "I am thinking,__ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">young man,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> about the final sentence for The Books of Bokonon. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The time for the final sentence has come." "Any luck?" He shrugged and handed me a piece of paper. This is what I read: If I were a younger man</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">, __I would write a history of human stupidity; and__ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">I would</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> climb to the top of Mount McCabe and lie down on my back with my history for a pillow; and </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">I would</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> take from the ground some of the blue-white poison</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">that makes statues of men</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">; and </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">I would</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> make a statue of myself, lying on my back</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, grinning horribly,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> and thumbing my nose at You Know Who.</span>__</span>


==South Korea - Security Aff== 
**Contention One: The Good and the Evil**
**United States Military presence in South Korea is justified by nothing but remnants of Cold War Logic**
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cumings 2005</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 470-71) ncp</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 11pt;">The Cold War </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;"> world remain unresolved.</span></span>
Consequently, The United States’ Engagement with North Korea is based solely in opposition and rooted in the Good-Evil dichotomy
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bleiker</span>**</span>**, 2k3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Ph.D. in international relations from the Australian National University, Jul </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">2003</span></span>
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> International Affairs, http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570 DA: 18/05/2010 pg.15 jb, sob)</span>

**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Once again, the </span>__****__…__**, regional, multilateral negotiation".'63
**And, any possibility of a global conflict beginning on the Korean Peninsula would begin from a rhetoric that demonizes North Korea and leaves Americans powerless**
**Cumings 2005** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) ncp</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point is not … a global holocaust</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**An Affirmation of difference is necessary-- recognizing competing value systems is the starting point for any form of resistance to status quo politics to occur.**
**Hatab, 02** (Lawrence J. Professor of Philosophy at Old Dominion Univrsity 2002 Prospects for a Democratic Agon Why We can still be Nietzscheans: The Journal of Nietzsche p.MUSE)
In fact, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nietzschean </span>… __to say No__.
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Contention two is Protecting the Herd </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">We realize that the Negative will probably argue in their next speech that that there will be implications to withdrawal, but </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">The logic of security is the drive to suppress rather than confront life’s inherent dangers. Approaching the problem of International Relations from this place of fear results in </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">- First, the eradication of difference and the demonization of human innovation, </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">- Second, the perpetuation of an international system seeking total destruction as an attempt to erase the inevitable instability of international relations </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">-Third, the domestication of life not worth living. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Der Derian 95 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">[James, On Security, pg. 29] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">The will to power… by a god." </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">This makes global extinction inevitable – when our metaphysics and politics are founded on the preservation of a safe international world, it always already contains the seeds of a war against difference </span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**Dillon 96** (Michael, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster, The Politics of Security) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">To put it … modern human condition. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**And, Our current lens of viewing the world is both epistemologically and ontologically flawed—they rely on false assumptions about the world that lead to the very fears and threats they try so hard to escape and is only accepted as fact through promotion by political elites.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**Prerna Lal 08**, Post-Graduate Student in International Relations, Deconstructing the National Security State, No Date Given, http://prernalal.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/css-deconstructing-the-nat-sec-state.pdf </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">In the aftermath … of the world. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">The politics of security enable the state to construct a spectral threat which enables the consolidation of state power, legitimating violent state lashout against enemies, giving a single madman the power to end the world. The only way to forge a radical break with this politics of security is by embracing the catastrophe of nuclear war and refusing the notions of self-defense upon which deterrence rests. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Zizek ‘5 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">(Slavoj, Solvenian Philosopher & senior researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities @ Essen (Germany), “Give Iranian Nukes A Chance,” 11 August 2005, http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/2280) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Every power structure … the real criminal. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Contention 3 is Our Pledge </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Thus, Thomas/Trey and I affirm the resolution as a means of confronting the construction of The Good and the Evil and the Ontology of Security which underwrite the National Security Complex. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Thomas/Trey and I believe that the United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">This affirmation is an act of engaging in agonistic democracy as a method of breaking down traditional discussion of North Korea and an alternative to security politics </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Vote affirmative to reject the logic of security surrounding North Korea – this opens space for social transformation </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**Burke 2** Int’l Studies, Queensland (Anthony, Alternatives 27) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">It is perhaps … previously seemed invincible." (62) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Ideology not only constitutes reality, but is more important than action itself. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Vaclav **Havel**, President of the Czech Republic, The Post-Development Reader, 19**97**, p. 340 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Yes, as we … other way around. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Policymaking that excludes epistemological reflection is ethically bankrupt and prone to failure. This also devastates their roleplaying args – producing policy knowledge without epistemological reflection makes us slaves of the state and ensures our scholarship only bottlenecks into tried-and-failed policy models. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**Smith, 97** Steve Professor of International Relations at the University of East Anglia, 1997(“Power and truth; a reply to William Wallace,” Review of International Studies, Volume 23, Issue 04, October, p. 515-516) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">In summary, I … we are responsible. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Contention 4 is Don’t Fear </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Scary predictions of Asian instability are based on cultural misunderstandings and have been repeatedly disproven—Our Evidence assumes all of their impact scenarios </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">**Kang 03** Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;"> Following the end … necessary theoretical exercise. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">As long as we are scared by big impacts resistance to racism, patriarchy, biopower, colonialism, and capitalism will all be co-opted and will continue to form the basis for our actions. Constant fear that security prescribes is what justifies some of the worst acts of violence in history. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">Arturo J. **Aldama 2k**, Prof @ A.S.U. & fellow @ UCSB, Do You Fear Fear?: Docile Bodies and Fear of the Other, Bad Subjects Issue 50, June 2000 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal;">When bodies feel … to name a few. </span>


=Negative= 
To request neg cites or specific round briefs email [[mailto:JamesChiles11@gmail.com|JamesChiles11@gmail.com]]

==Kritiks== 
===Capitalism=== 
**This construction of a “strategic withdrawal” underlies and masks the motives of capitalist imperialism to remain undetected**
**Patnaik** 19**90** (Prabhat, Eminent and prolific economist who has worked creatively for 40 years at the intersection of Marxian and Keynesian theoretical traditions, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board of the Indian state of Kerala., “Whatever happened to imperialism?,” Monthly Review Foundation, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n6_v42/ai_9101140/?tag=content;col1]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is unnecessary to go on. The </span>
__AND__
__strength and vigor it is displaying at present.__

**The impact is twin existential cataclysms – nuclear omni-erasure and ecological suicide**
John **__Foster__,** Professor of Sociology, University of Oregon; Editor, Monthly Review, 200**__5__**, [[http://www.monthlyreview.org/0905jbf.htm]]

__The unprecedented dangers of this new global disorder__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , egalitarian, democratic, and </span>__sustainable society__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**The alternative is to use the ballot as an opportunity to criticize the system of capitalism as good and here to stay. Our responsibility as intellectuals is to consistently attack this notion –only by continued relentless criticism and spreading of this belief can we delegitimize the system. Each incremental victory is a rupture within capital**

**Kovel 02** (Joel, Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studes at Bard College, The Enemy of Nature: The End of Capitalism or the End of the World? pg 223-224)
__Revolutions become feasible when a people decides that__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> defined incorporate the goal towards which it moves? </span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Predictions</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Asia 1NC</span>==== 
**Scary predictions of Asian instability are based on cultural misunderstandings and have been repeatedly disproven.**
**Kang 03** Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)
__Following the end ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> necessary theoretical exercise. </span>


**Their general view of IR can’t take into account the varying countries of Asia**
**Kang 03** Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the concept ... from "the West."" </span>
**Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates the agency of individuals within the system**
**Bleiker, 2000** (Roland, Senior Lecturer and Coordinater of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, p. 48-49)
**__<span style="color: black;">The very notion </span>__**...<span style="color: black;"> ensuing political practices.</span>

**Worse-case thinking fails, causes political and social paralysis, and creates a defenseless society oriented around fear**
**Schneier, 2010** (Bruce, Internationally renowned security technologist, Chief security technology officer of BT, Testified on security before Congress, 5/13/2010 “Worst Case Thinking” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/worst-case_thin.html]]</span>)
At a security... listening to them.

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Middle East 1NC</span>==== 
**Scholars severely lack skills necessary to predict Middle Eastern politics—experts agree**
**Kramer, 2001** (Martin, past director of the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago, Cornell University, and Georgetown
Each fall, MESA ... done about it.

**Their general IR doesn't take into account the dynamic and different Middle East**
**Valbjorn, 2004** (Martin, PhD in Political Sciences and assistant professor in the Department of the Political Science at the University of Aarhus. Supplementary degree in Middle East Studies, "Toward a 'Mesopotamian Turn': Disciplinarity and the Study of the International Relations of the Middle East, **Journal of Mediterranean Studies, 2004 p52-55)**
At first sight, __//...//__ logic would suggest

**Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates the agency of individuals within the system**
**Bleiker, 2000** (Roland, Senior Lecturer and Coordinater of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, p. 48-49)
**__<span style="color: black;">The very notion </span>__**...<span style="color: black;"> ensuing political practices.</span>


**Worse-case thinking fails, causes political and social paralysis, and creates a defenseless society oriented around fear**
**Schneier, 2010** (Bruce, Internationally renowned security technologist, Chief security technology officer of BT, Testified on security before Congress, 5/13/2010 “Worst Case Thinking” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/worst-case_thin.html]]</span>)
At a security... listening to them.


===Nietzsche=== 
====Generic==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">We didn’t want to break it to you, but suffering is inevitable.</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Attempts to correct errors have only served to replicate their harms, viewing [conflict/suffering] as something to be fixed makes us view suffering as meaningless, destroying the very essence of life</span></span>
**Kain, 2k7** (Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, //Journal of Nietzsche Studies//, issue 33, Penn state University, Muse)
Nietzsche simply dismisses … only be concealed. 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, God is dead: there is no predetermined morality: attempts to eliminate suffering sacrifices the subject for the idol that is the herd</span></span>
**Ure**, Lecturer at Monash University, 20**06**
(Michael, “The Irony of Pity: Nietzsche contra Schopenhauer and Rousseau,” //The Journal of Nietzsche Studies//, Issue 32 pgs 68-91)
However, if Nietzsche … the supreme __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">divinity"</span>__ (//D// 173). 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Furthermore, reducing humanity as something that needs to be saved makes its extinction desirable</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 10pt;">Nietzsche 1886</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[fredrich, “beyond good and evil”, aph # 225, pg. 342]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether hedonism, or pessimism, or utilitarianism, or eudaimonianism (6)—all these ways of thinking, which measure the value of things according to pleasure and pain, that is, according to contingent circumstances and secondary issues, are ways of thinking in the foreground and naïveté, which everyone who knows about creative forces and an artistic conscience will look down on, not without ridicule and not without compassion. Compassion for yourself—that is, of course, </span><span class="underline">not compassion the way you mean the term… <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">raise man up</span>?</span>
<span style="margin-right: 0.05in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The final irony is that the harms that they expose are merely present because we don’t let them go. We remember that we have suffered, and thus we shape this into our depiction of the Apparent World – making us strive more for the Real World. Their insistence on depicting suffering as something that must be avoided is an eternal recurrence of ressentiment.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-right: 0.05in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 1887 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[“Genealogy of Morals”, second essay “Guilt…” pg. 497 in “The Basic Writings of Nietzsche”]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-right: 0.05in;"><span class="underline">How can one …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> affect and desire.</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, The 1ac’s plan is an attempt to rid the world of isolated scenarios deemed as “harms,” constructing an idealized false world in which certain instances of [conflict/suffering] don’t occur, and while this quest is noble, it provokes a hatred for the real world where [suffering/conflict] inevitably exists. </span></span>
**Turanli**, Associate Prof. at Istanbul Technical University, 20**03**
(Aydan, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World,” //The Journal of Nietzsche Studies// issue 26 pg 55-63)
<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 10pt;">The craving for … the "denaturalized world" (//WP// III 586). </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our Alternative Text: Vote negative to embrace the status-quo, despite the harms presented. The role of your ballot is not to make a decision on foreign policy, but your stance on life. Only by attaining a Dionysian relationship with life can we affirm existence.</span></span>
**White**, Prof. of Philosophy at Williams College, 19**90**
(Alan, //From Within Nietzsche’s Labyrinth//, [[http://www.williams.edu/philosophy/faculty/awhite/WNL%20web/Veil%20frames.htm]])
The present, condemned … -- __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">but rather to //love// it.</span>__ (//EH//II:10)

====Security==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the affirmative posits themselves as masters of the theatre of policy, able to create a new reality which more closely resembles the ideal form which makes their plan defensible. this drive towards purification and explanation, this will to truth, is an attempt to escape suffering and creative potential which negates life. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">TURANLI 2K3 [aydan, “nietzsche and the later wittgenstein”, journal of nietzsche studies, issue 26, p. 61-2, muse] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The craving for … the fly-bottle” (PI §309). </span>




<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and, The Affirmative can always identify a particular threat to our existence. Their desire for mastery and control in response to these inherent CONDITIONS OF life is a domestication of THE world which attempts to cleanse the unknown. Their framework for life makes extinction desirable.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> NIETZSCHE 1886 [fredrich, “beyond good and evil”, aph # 225, pg. 342] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whether hedonism, or … raise man up? </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and, attempts to secure our experience of existence from others produces life as a managerial project makes it not worth living and ensures global conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Der Derian 95 [James, On Security, pg. 29] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The will to … by a god." </span>




<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and, The alternative is to affirm destiny and chance. Abandon the desire for mastery, BY REFUSING TO ENGAGE THE 1AC. The alternative is the only way to live life eventfully and adventurously, through a rolling of the dice. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">deleuze 83 [Gilles, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, pg. 25-27] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The game has … fatally obtained number. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and, the apologetic tone of the 1ac is the worst form of the bad conscious. their thought-experiment is only a purging of the INTERNAL feelings of ressentiment. the ballot should reclaim the freedom of the spirit. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> deleuze 83 [Gilles, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, p 17-18] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dionysus affirms all … frank, dynamic, gaiety. </span>

=====Perm Ev===== 
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">__PERM__ __LINKS:__ THE ALTERNATIVE IS A DOUBLE AFFIRMATION THAT ABSORBS THE POTENTIAL OF THE THIRD OPTION BY AFFIRMING CONTINGENCY AND THUS BEING. THEIR MEDIATION CAN NOT SUPPORT THIS AFFIRMATION OF LIFE.</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ZUPANČIČ 2K3</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [alenka, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” 134]</span></span>
But what, exactly … <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">double in itself. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">turn: only a misreading and co-option WHICH seeks to use the language and appeal of Nietzsche to justify politics PRODUCES the VIOLENCE THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT. all of their OFFENSE TO THE ALT IS A Disad to the perm.</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-transform: none;">BATAILLE 37</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">[Georges, “Nietzsche and the fascists” in “visions of excess”, p. 184-185]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The very movement … any given orientation.</span></span>

==Counterplans== 
===Consult Russia=== 
**Consultation is key to successful revamp of NATO-Russia Council**
**Butcher 09**- Martin, independent international security analyst; June 28, 2009; NATO Monitor http://natomonitor.blogspot.com/2009/06/nato-russia-council-back-in-action.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NATO-Russia ...</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> for future cooperation.</span>__

**A strong NRC is key to key to preventing arctic territorial disputes**
**Lisken**, Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source, **09**
(“ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW, May 27 (RIA ... by North Korea. </span>

**Left unchecked, these disputes lead to a US-Russia war**
**Zellen, 07**- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387&sectionID=43
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In response to ... </span>____next 20 years.”__

**<That Bostrum card everyone reads>**

===Embassy Guards PIC=== 
**Even losing one Marine Security Guard undermines embassy security**
**Nichols,** Captain**, 6** (Rory, “Marine Security Guard Program at Risk: Can the Marine Corps Continue to Support the Program?, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA503392&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of the __...__</span> __at all times.__


**<span style="color: black;">Marine security guards are critical to the safety of U.S. embassies and diplomatic credibility</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bureau of Diplomatic Security</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Department of State, **2010** (“UNITED STATES MARINE SECURITY GUARDS SAFEGUARDING AMERICAN MISSIONS AROUND THE WORLD”, </span>
<span style="color: black;"> <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/138440.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: black;"> In the face __...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> to American diplomacy.</span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Marine-protection of our embassies preserves information dominance necessary to solve every transnational threat and maintain our soft-power </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Williams,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Center for Emerging Threats and Opportunities, **1996** (J. Noel, “U.S. State Department and U.S. Marine Corps: Partners for the 21st Century - Using Embassies as Advanced Bases for Information”, </span>
<span style="color: black;"> <span style="color: blue;">[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/williams.pdf]]</span>)</span>
In the tradition __...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> to this end.</span>__



**CBW and nuclear war**
**Barlow**, Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley, **2K2** (Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editori]]</span>
al.php#6) 
Much of Nye's ...__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> a networked system.</span>__

===Qixiong Japan Conditions CP=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhan Qixiong’s imprisonment kills Japanese-Sino relations and cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 010’</span>** “China Says No Meeting With Japan at U.N.”, New York Times, IAN JOHNSON, September 21, 2010, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/22/world/asia/%2022chinajapan|http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/22/world/asia/ 22chinajapan]].html?_r=3&ref=world
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BEIJING — __**China**__ </span>**__broadened ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of its territory.</span>
**Brink is now, Current Sino-Japan relations are strained**
**Calder, 06**- Director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS, Johns Hopkins University. (March 06, Kent E. Calder, Foreign Affairs, “China and Japan’s Simmering Rivalry”, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61515/kent-e-calder/china-and-japans-simmering-rivalry]], EG)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China and Japan, __...__</span> __Northeast Asia today.__

China-Japan Rivalry could annihilate Northeast Asian peace
James Chieh Hsiung. China and Japan at Odds: Deciphering the Perpetual Conflict. September 2007.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is not ... W. Bush’s administration,</span>

===Drones PIC=== 
**Drone surveillance is used to track down militants, plan would end Surveillance.**
**Dreazan 08** (September, U.S. to Expand Drone Use, Other Surveillance in Afghanistan, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122169509501550021.html]], date accessed 10/14/10)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- The U.S. ... troops in Afghanistan.</span>
**A decrease in our ability to fight militants spills over into Pakistan and causes global nuclear war**
**MORGAN, 7**
(Steven J., former member of the British Labour Party National Executive Committee, “"Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?" 6/03, http://www.yoursdaily.com/different_views/better_another_taliban_afghanistan_than_a_taliban_nuclear_pakistan)
<span class="smalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">However events may ...</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="Style1Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> against the US.</span></span></span>

===PIC of "The"=== 

**Use of ‘The’ before United States federal government inscribes nationalistic geopolitics, creating us-them dichotomies**
**__Thrift 0__**
(Nigel | University of Warwick Vice Chancellor, University of Bristol Professor of Geography | “It’s the Little Things” | Geopolitical Traditions: A Century of Geopolitical Thought p.383-385)
__Let us finally ...__ sometimes __boils over__.

**And - Geopolitical borders breed racism - this must always be rejected**
**__Dikeç 2__**
(Mustafa | University of London Royal Holloway Geography Dept. Human Geography Lecturer | “Pera Peras Poros: Longing for Spaces of Hospitality” | Theory Culture Society)
California’s Proposition 187 was ... such a concern.


==Disadvantages== 
===PGS=== 
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps; text-align: justify;">A. Uniqueness: PGS is innevitable. In response to russian concerns, Obama has shelved a project to convert Trident Ballistic missiles for conventional Prompt Global Strike capabilities. In exchange he has directed the Department of Defense to proceed with devlelopment of an Alternative weapon not yet invented. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">SANGER and SHANKER, 4-22-10</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;"> [David and Thom, “U.S. Faces Choice on New Weapons for Fast Strikes”, NY Times, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/23/world/europe/23strike.html]]] </span></span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> In coming years, President </span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.5in;"> <span class="tagchar0">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 36pt;">Obama will decide.</span>__ </span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 36pt;">... if he is elected to a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% red;">second term</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> . </span>


<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps; text-align: justify;"> B. Links:</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps; text-align: justify;"> Fist, The Affirmative forces a shift in the strategic environment that the military will perceive AS A DECLINE IN CAPABILITY. This gives rise to a ‘burning bridge mentality’ that will spark a new drive for weapon innovation. </span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps; text-align: justify;"> Robert __Tomes 07,__ Associate Professor of History at St. John's College of Professional Studies __US Defense Strategy from Vietnam to Operation Iraqi Freedom__ p. 157-8 </span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> Contextual factors define the general boundaries and the </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">specific threats from which to design effective counter</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">s</span><span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps; text-align: justify;"> Second, The development of abilities to strike emerging terrorist threats and WMD is the US military’s highest development priority. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Miasnikov</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> 2008</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Eugene, Department of Aerophysics and Space Research, degree in Physics from MIPT, visiting fellow at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied current state-of-the-art of submarine detection and its impact on strategic stability in the world . LONG-RANGE PRECISION-“GUIDED CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS: IMPLICATIONS FOR STRATEGIC BALANCE, ARMS CONTROL AND NON-PROLIFERATION”, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">HTTP://WWW.ARMSCONTROL.RU/PUBS/EN/EM090918.PDF//</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">//)//</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> //Currently,// </span>//__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the U.S. Defense Department is</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …to silo-based ICBMs. </span>//</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Third, Conventional Trident conversion is viewed as the only short-term solution to a perceived loss of capability. Despite Obama’s insistence the project be shelved, military experts will push for CTM as the only viable alternative to dealing with terrorists and WMD in a post plan environment. </span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Wade __Boese 2008__ [Boese, “Panel Backs Long-Range Conventional Missile”, Arms Control Today, September, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2008_09/LongRange]]] </span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">An expert panel commissioned by <span style="background-color: yellow;">Congress advocated</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Aug</span>//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> AND</span>//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> into systems and technologies other than converting Tridents. </span>//</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">C. Impact: Conventionally armed Trident Ballistic Missiles cause world war III </span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Shachtman</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">, 4/23/__10__ [Noah contributor New York times, wired magazine, “Obama Revives Rumsfeld’s Missile Scheme, Risks Nuke War”, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/04/]] obama-revives-rumsfeld-era-missile-scheme/] </span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Obama administration is poised to take up </span>__//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND </span>__//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a nuclear showdown, is just plain crazy.</span>__//</span>
===Senkaku=== 
**China-Japan tension is high over Senkaku dispute—only US military presence in Japan prevents war** **<span style="letter-spacing: -0.25pt;">Global Security 2009</span>**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.25pt;"> (9/3,</span> <span style="color: blue; letter-spacing: -0.25pt;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/senkaku.htm,]]</span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.25pt;"> NB: the </span>
<span style="letter-spacing: -0.25pt;">quoted text is</span> <span style="letter-spacing: -0.35pt;">from Ian Bremmer, President of the Eurasia Group)</span>
<span style="letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">"Last year, __there **...**__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> US forces nearby</span>.__** </span>

**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.55pt;">China is pursuing aggressive policy towards East China sea now—withdrawal leads to conflict and Chinese</span>** **<span style="letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">regional hegemony</span>**
**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">Caryl 2010</span>**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.4pt;"> (Christian, Foreign Policy, “Navel Gazing in Asia,”</span> <span style="color: blue; letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/05/18/naval_gazing_in_asia%29|http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/05/18/naval_gazing_in_asia)]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beneath the two countries' </span>__**...**__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">alliance for fissures</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">."</span>__

**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">Asian war goes nuclear and global—maintaining troop levels is key</span>**
**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.55pt;">Sheridan 9</span>**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.55pt;"> (Greg, Foreign editor – The Australian, “Hatoyama poised for global struggle,” The Australian, 9-5-09,</span> <span style="color: blue; letter-spacing: -0.4pt;">[[http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html]]</span>
Kurt __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Campbell</span>,__ now __...____<span style="letter-spacing: -0.45pt;"> seems to get this. </span>__


==//Advantage Frontlines//== 

===//Warming//=== 
//**1. Models are skewed and ignore multiple factors – satellites are more reliable and prove no anthropogenic warming**//
//Fred **Singer**, professor emeritus of environmental sciences at the University of Virginia, 3/**08** “Nature, Not Human Activity, Rules the Climate <www.sepp.org/ publications/ NIPCC-Feb%2020.pdf>//
//In this Nongovernmental ... by available data.//


//**2. Water Vapor is the most important greenhouse gas, C02 is negligible**//
//Owen **McShane**, chairman of the policy panel of the New Zealand Climate Science Coalition and director of the Centre for Resource Management Studies, April 4, 20**08**//
//(Cites Roy Spencer, principal research scientist for U of Alabama in Huntsville and recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, “Climate change confirmed but global warming is cancelled”, The National Business Review (New Zealand), Lexis)//
//Atmospheric scientists generally ... fun to watch.//

//**A. Carbon Dioxide is the lifeblood of plants – this solves worldwide starvation and bio-diversity**//
//**All the Idsos** [Sherwood Idso, Keith Idso, and Craig Idso] [C02 science magazine Volume 6, Number 37] 9/10/**03**//
//In a broad __... be, sharing equally__."//
//**B. Worldwide starvation triggers World War III**//
//William H. **__Calvin__** (Theoretical Nuerophysicist at the University of Washington in Seattle, 1/**__98__**"The great climate flip-flop,"// The Atlantic Monthly// 281:47-64) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The population-crash ... five years hence. </span>

===China War=== 
**<span class="cite">War with China is imminent – war now would be small and the US would win. Delaying the inevitable results in extinction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Babbin & Timperlake ‘6</span>__** (Jed & Edward, former undersecretary dept defense + editor human events & investigator for national security committee on rules ... who loves America. 

**The US would crush China – no retaliation, superior subs and stealth attacks**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Affairs ‘6</span>__** (Keir Lieber, Assistant prof Political Science @ the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl Press, Associate Professor of Political Science @ the University of Pennsylvania, “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy”, March/April 2006)
__China's nuclear arsenal ...__ __armed cruise missiles__.

<!--[if gte mso 10]> 
**War with China now is uniquely key to preventing nanotech and AI development**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Navrozov ‘7</span>__** (Lev, winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements with more than twenty articles in the United States Congressional Record + president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2007/lev8_31.asp]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1945, the __...__ </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 11pt;"> territory of a world</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Nanotech outweighs all nuclear conflict and will destroy the Biosphere**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Treder & Phoenix ‘8</span>__** (Mike, Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University & Chris, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing,” Last Updated Feb 7, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm]]</span>) 
[[#arms]]
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nanotech weapons would ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> increase the danger</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]