[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
==Kritiks== 


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Hillman**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Hillman-Hillman 1NC]]Hillman 1NC - Greenhill</span>==== 

**The aff’s attempt to distance itself from war ignores that conflict is not something that we can simply remove ourselves from – instead it is rooted in ourselves as an integral part of our being. Their troop withdrawal is merely a repression of our internal drive for war that forces it to bottle up and explode in conflict.**
**Hillman 04 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 22px;">(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205)</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">There remains the wish at the end… … the hypocrisy of noble proclamations .</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Their ignorance leads to a state of psychic numbness resulting from the separation of our souls from an integral part of it – the drive for peace destroys value to life and makes death desirable</span>**
**Hillman 4 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 22px;">(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 30</span>-31)**

**When Neville Chamberlain and his umbrella… … major syndrome of the public psyche: "peace."**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 22px;">Additionally, the repression of war does not rid ourselves of it – rather, it bottles it up until conflict explodes back upon us in the form of nuclear omnicide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 22px;">Davis 1</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96)</span>**

**It is never enough<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however. Inner discord… …</span> articulation in Kant’s struggle with the sublime.**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 22px;">I**nstead of going to war in the name of peace, we should enter war for war’s own sake. This means setting aside our fear and distaste for conflict so we can imagine ourselves embroiled in beautiful strife. Also, the alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to aff solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society – unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 22px;">Hillman 4</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]]</span>, pgs 1-5)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One sentence in one scene from one film, </span>****Patton… … same level of thinking that created them.**

====Hillman 1NC - Glenbrooks==== 

**Conflict is rooted in the human psyche – we cannot distance ourselves from it – attempting to avoid war through withdrawal represses our internal drive for war and forces it to explode into nuclear annihilation – we must confront our desire for war.**
**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 4</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">There remains the wish </span>____<span style="color: black;">at the… …with the hypocrisy of noble proclamations . </span>__



**<span style="color: black;">The drive for peace leads to a state of psychic numbness – peace destroys value to life and makes death desirable </span>**
**Hillman 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, [[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]], pgs 30-31) </span>

__When Neville Chamberlain and his umbrella… …major syndrome of the public psyche: "peace."__


**Instead of going to war in the name of peace, we should enter war for war’s own sake. This means setting aside our fear and distaste for conflict so we can imagine ourselves embroiled in beautiful strife. Also, the alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to aff solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society – unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.**
**Hillman 4** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, [[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]], pgs 1-5)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One sentence in one scene from… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">at the same level of thinking that created them</span>.__


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Hillman-1NC/2NC Framework]]1NC/2NC Framework</span>==== 


**Evaluate unconscious beliefs first – the psyche exists and shapes everything we know; not confronting it leads to error replication**

**Jung 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85 ***we do not agree with gendered language***) </span>


Separation from his instinctual nature inevitably… … day and can happen to everyone.


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Hillman-2NC Perm]]2NC Perm</span>==== 


**The plan worships Apollo, who views violence as long term planning from far away that views civilization as nothing more than collateral damage necessary in the name of security – we advocate instead fighting outside of cities against armies. Violence is inevitable but the perm makes it escalate.**

**Hillman 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]]</span>, pgs 90-92) </span>

Why dwell on this archaic god of war when… … the rush to win and the rush of winning.


====2NC War not Inevitable==== 

**It's neither inevitable nor bad**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hillman 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – we’ve read cards from him before so far</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (James “A terrible love of war” 2004, p. 73) </span>

<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 8pt;">This word bears a closer look.</span><span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;"> __"Inhuman… …What__ </span>__<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;">is </span>____<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;">the central quality </span>____<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;">of </span>____<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;">humanity</span>__<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-size: 10pt;">?</span>


====Link ev/a2 Link Turn==== 


<span class="Underline">**Their** </span>**attempt at peace ensures psychic numbness – only embracing war can solve**
**Hillman ‘4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]]</span>, pgs 35-38)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">The upshot of this excursion into peace… … Heraclitus's, the psychologist's, main and urgent message**.**</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Hillman-Link - Patriarchy]]Link - Patriarchy</span>==== 

**Patriarchy doesn’t emerge from war – rather, the fantasmic belief in war as masculine creates the basis for patriarchy.**
**Hillman 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php?title=Special:BookSources/1594200114|ISBN 1-59420-011-4]]</span>, pgs 86-87) </span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">To imagine war to be </span>a "man's thing," <span style="background-color: aqua;">one… …primary cause of war; that </span>cause <span style="background-color: aqua;">is the god</span>.__


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Fem]]Fem**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Fem-1NC - Greenhill]]1NC - Greenhill</span>==== 


**A. Gendered scripts, taught to us from birth, determine the way we see the world. It is impossible to escape the effect social constructions of gender have on positive statements of the world**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">bell **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">hooks</span></span>**, former Prof of English at Yale, Oberlin, USC, and City College in New York, Ph.D UC Santa Cruz, 7/25/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">0**4**</span></span>, “Understanding Patriarchy,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://arizona.indymedia.org/news/2004/07/20613.php]]</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Patriarchy is the single most life-threatening social… …on patriarchal values and beliefs about gender. </span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"> <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">**B. International Relations excludes feminine perspectives in its descriptions of global politics** </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Darryl </span>**Jarvis**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Ph.D in IR from University of British Columbia,</span> **2000**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">**,** “International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism: Defending the Discipline,” p. 145 </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">The Third Debate has thus evolved a new addendum… …</span>have a certain similarity in shape and appearance."

**C. The logic of patriarchy can only end in total annihilation**
<span class="Author-Date">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Betty Reardon</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span> </span>Director of the Peace Education Program at Teacher's College Columbia University,**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 93</span></span>**, “Women and Peace: Feminist Visions of Global Security,” p. 30-2
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A clearly visible element in the escalating tensions… …</span></span>major rifts in world politics. (Shelly 1983).

**D. It’s not enough to add women and stir – vote negative to fundamentally alter the way we approach international relations**
Laura **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sjoberg</span></span>**, assistant prof of political science @ University of Florida, 20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span></span>**, "The Norm of Tradition: Gender Subordination and Women's Exclusion in International Relations”, p. 177-178.
If what is “traditional” is endogenous, then… <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">…and the world(s) in which we live”</span></span> (1999, 37).


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Nietzsche]]Nietzsche**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic Kritiks-Nietzsche-Suffering 1NC]]Suffering 1NC</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**The Aff represents the Socratic Will to Order in its attempt to control the world. This manifests in our attempts to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and avoid suffering. This requires the construction of an ideal real world toward which our apparent world aspires, creating life as negative vis-à-vis our internalization of ressentiment**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> Paul **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Saurette</span>__**, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__**, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. pp. 3-6]</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Philosophical Foundation of the Will to… …</span><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">from the point of view of its interpretation.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">’</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;">**The desire for mastery and control the affirmative replicates only creates ressentiment for our current existence. Such hatred and search for a new life makes life laughable and makes extinction desirable.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> Friedrich **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nietzsche</span>__**, German Philosopher, 18**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">86</span>__**, “Beyond Good and Evil”, p. 342</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Whether hedonism, or pessimism, or utilitarianism, or… …</span><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">through the cultivation of great suffering</span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">?</span></span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in;"> T**heir attempt to resolve these threats and solve problems creates a hatred of life. This mandates a desire to fight against external dangers giving way to a war on difference, ignoring that the world can never be contained, managed, or secured because danger is __integral__ to life.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**, Professor of International Studies at Brown University, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “On Security”, p. 32-34, CIAO</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The will to power, then, should not… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">consciousness is confused with its causes." 41</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **The Socratic delusion creates mastery, control, and violence as a justification for achieving the end goal of the “Real World” [we often don’t read this card]**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> Paul **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Saurette</span>__**, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__**, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. pp. 1-28</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The dichotomisation of the ideal and apparent… …</span><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">neither factual nor beyond critique</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in;"> **Thus the Alternative – Embrace the 1AC impacts as way of accepting the unknowable aspects of life. You must take the risk of exposing yourself to violent impacts and abandon the desire for control. This risks danger but your mortality is a certainty. The alternative is the only way to bring meaning to life by living life eventfully through a rolling of the dice.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> Gilles **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze</span>__**, French Philosopher, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">83</span>__**, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, p. 25-27</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The game has two moments which are… …the nature of the fatally obtained number.</span></span></span>



====Zupančič Alt - Vs K affs==== 

**The alternative is to forget about the pain associated with [x]. Divorcing pain and suffering is a way of refusing to allow suffering to affect us and opens up possibilities for true action.**

**Zupančič 3** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Alenka, researcher at the Institute of Philosophy of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, visiting professor at the European Graduate School, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two” pg 54-61, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__guilt__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (the invention… …we do, has to be registered somewhere.</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Security 1NC</span>==== 
<span style="margin: 0in;">**Insecurity and danger are inevitable – the attempt to control it only breeds violence**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">rapidity of </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">change in the international system… </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">…bomb-site for a permanently electioneering elite.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **Their framework of controlling the world creates a hatred for life. Their attempt to solve problems ignores that danger is inevitable and integral to life**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Nietzsche</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">full of mistrust and evil experiences."</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 39</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **This desire to control the world creates violence and a hatred for life [we read this card with this shell]**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Paul **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Saurette</span>__**, PhD in Political Theory at Johns Hopkins University, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__**, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory”, Millenium Journal of International Studies, p. 10, umn-rks</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in;">The dichotomisation of the ideal and apparent worlds… …it is neither factual nor beyond critique.</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;">**Thus the alternative – embrace the instability of the status quo by allowing the Aff impacts to happen.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> **Our deaths are inevitable, the only question is how we face it. Only by embracing the violence of the 1AC can we truly affirm life. The Aff attempt to solve these problems only traps us in a cycle of resentment that makes this very security inevitable**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Joanne **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Faulkner</span>__**, ARC Research Fellow in the School of History and Philosophy at the University of New South Wales, Spring/Autumn 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “The Innocence of Victimhood Versus the “Innocence of Becoming”: Nietzsche, 9/11, and the “Falling Man””, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Project MUSE, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Most significantly, for the purposes of… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">it must have felt like flying.”</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">33 </span></span>

====AT: Perm==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**A true affirmation of being involves affirming the world as is in every way shape and form means the perm does not capture solvency.**</span>
**White, 90** – Mark Hopkins Professor of Philosophy at Williams College – 1990(Alan, “Within Nietzsche’s Labyrinth”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.williams.edu/philosophy/faculty/awhite/WNL%20web/WNL%20contents.htm]]</span>)

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Zarathustra affirms being.</span></span> Immediately before… …<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">there is much shit in the world. </span></span></span>


====AT: No Alt Solvency==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**1. Question of alternative solvency miss the point – the ballot is a way to reclaim your life from the joylessness of the affirmatives framework** </span>
**White, 90** – Mark Hopkins Professor of Philosophy at Williams College – 1990(Alan, “Within Nietzsche’s Labyrinth”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.williams.edu/philosophy/faculty/awhite/WNL%20web/WNL%20contents.htm]]</span>)

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The most provocative teachings I find… …their supposed inferiors beneath their feet.</span></span></span>


===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Guattari</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1NC</span>==== 


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**The aff has the right solution to the wrong idea – they see withdrawal from Afghanistan as necessary to maintain US power – this view of the world makes the desires that began the War on Terror coalesce and escalate into a war machine aimed at total peace – justifying the destruction of any risks to American supremacy.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Buchanan 5 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ian holds the foundation Chair of Communication and Cultural Studies at Charles Darwin University, “War in the age of intelligent machines and unintelligent government,” Australian Humanities Review Issue 36, July 2005, dml)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This, according to Deleuze and Guattari… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">it enters its most terrifying phase.</span>__</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The war machine is not inherently negative – it is a neutral force outside of the state and created by the desires of individuals. Only through State co-option and redirection towards peace can annihilation and nuclear holocaust occur through the demands of the masses.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, A Thousand Plateaus pg 230-231, dml)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There are many reasons to believe that the war machine… …the other lines pale by comparison.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus the alternative: vote negative to embrace a nomadic critique of the 1AC. Only by rejecting attempts at securitization in favor of an analysis of militarism at the social level can we create the condition for true politics – maintaining preemption efforts can only recreate the harms they create.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Evans and Guillaume 10** (Brad, lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds, and Laura, PhD in International Politics at Aberystwyth, “Deleuze and War: Introduction,” Theory and Event, Vol 13, Issue 3, Project Muse, dml) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gilles Deleuze’s work displays an intimate relationship… …claims to hold the key to universal truth.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC - Framework</span>==== 

**Their refusal to focus on the way that desire shapes policy ensures the failure of the political – only by evaluating ontology first can we avoid the recreation of violence and fascism and create real change.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, Anti-Oedipus, 347-8 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Not only can the libidinal investment of… …never takes the place of a machine of desire. </span></span></span>

**The alt is a prerequisite to their framework – we need to determine how our worldview affects politics before we can discuss politics itself – that’s Evans and Guillaume and**
**Weissberg 4** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Robert Weissberg is Professor of Political Science Emeritus at the University of Illinois-Urbana., Society “<span class="ft1">Abandoning Politics,</span>” May/June, <span class="ft4">http://transactionpub.metapress.com/app/home/content.asp)</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: .75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The conventional wisdom tells us that… …</span></span><span class="ps38">nation as a whole quietly moves rightward.</span></span>


====2NC - Perm==== 

**<span style="color: black;">Perm maintains a focus on international politics and violence – this masks over the root of violence at the molecular level – we need to singularly focus on fascism at the individual level </span>**
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Deleuze and Guattari 80</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 214-215, dml) </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">… …cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span></span>


===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">Breila</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">Other miscellaneous links/A2s can be found in the PMCs aff - they overlap</span>

====<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><insert link></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Their securitized representations justify biopolitical control and genocide </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Coviello 2K</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">initiative that </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">can scarcely be done without</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span></span> </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Their framework of control creates a hatred for life </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">James </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Nietzs<span style="border: none;">che</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">full of mistrust and evil experiences."</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> 39 </span></span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">The alternative is to vote negative – rejecting their representations is key to emancipatory politics </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mark </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [Critique of Security, 185-6] </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">The only way out</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;"> of such a dilemma… …be brave enough to return the gift."' </span></span></span>



====1NC Link - Afghanistan==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Framing Afghanistan in terms of global security upholds a militarized form of security that justifies genocidal politics. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neil </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooper</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Peace Studies @ Bradford ‘</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">5</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> “Picking out the Pieces of the Liberal Peaces: Representations of Conflict Economies and the Implications for Policy” Security Dialogue 36 (4) p. 471- </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">The political economies of contemporary conflicts… …trading structures that contribute to underdevelopment. </span>

====1NC Link - China==== 


Their detached and orderly description of China reduces a complex and nuanced society to a specimen that can be clinically observed and analyzed—this approach to ‘knowing China’ renders critical reflection impossible and legitimizes violence. 
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Chengxin **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pan</span>__**, Department of Political Science and International Relations at the Australian National University, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__** (“The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 29, Issue 3, June/July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premier, p. 305-306) </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">While U.S. China scholars argue fiercely over… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">largely invisible by those common positivist assumptions. </span>



====2NC - China==== 


**<span style="line-height: 115%;">No such thing as a China threat – only exists in a world where we securitize </span>**
**<span style="line-height: 115%;">Clark, 06 </span>**<span style="line-height: 115%;">(No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, </span>[[http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm]]). 

__<span style="line-height: 115%;">For as long as I have been in the China-watching… …have been spent. And millions have died</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">.</span>



====<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;">AT: Framework</span>==== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">FIRST, Representations must precede policy discussion </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neta </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> ,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. Argument and Change in World Politics, 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> p. 19-21 </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Coherent arguments are unlikely to take place unless…</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> …wrangling.” Hence framing is a meta-argument. </span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">SECOND, they have no case – representations are prior </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cedric </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jourde</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Ph.D., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 2002 * M.A., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> B.Sc., Political Science, Université de Montréal, Montréal, 1995 Hegemony or Empire?: The redefinition of US Power under George W Bush Ed. David and Grondin p. 182-3 2006 </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Relations between states are</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, at least… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">in order to deal with this 'other'.</span></span> </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">THIRD, failure to account for representations kills all policymaking, internally link turning their offense </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dibyesh </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Anand</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> PhD (Bristol), MA (Hull), BA Honours (St Stephen’s College, Delhi) Reader in International Relations Centre for the Study of Democracy, Westminster University, London, Geopolitical exotica: Tibet in western imagination, p. 12-16 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">WORLD POLITICS AS THE POLITICS OF IMAGINATION… …(the United States) </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">that is under investigation</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span> </span>


====<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt left 10.75in;">AT: Case Outweighs</span>==== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">The Aff constructs a rigged game – their construction of the advantages presupposes the necessity of the plan – risk assessment means you vote neg to avoid error replication </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Michael </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dillon and</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Julian </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Reid</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000, Vol. 25, Issue 1 </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">More specifically, where there is a policy problematic… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">is variously (p<span style="border: none;">olicy) problematized by it</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Refusing to acknowledge that we are not invincible causes extinction </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">William V. **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University, State University of New York, 200**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__** (American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, Published by SUNY Press, ISBN 0791472892, p. ix-x) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">In this book I contend that </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">the consequence… </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">…for rethinking the very idea of America</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>


====<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">AT: Realism</span>==== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Claims of realism being inevitable justify mass violence </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt;">Robert Alexander **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kraig</span>__** is Wisconsin state political director for Service Employees International Union (SEIU). He is also an instructor in the Communication Department at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Rhetoric & Public Affairs 5.1 (200**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**) 1-30 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: center 4.5pt;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Given the claimed inevitability of realism's description…</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> …scholars, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">is a full-blooded antirealist rhetoric. </span></span></span>