[[toc]]
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Aff cites- [[mailto:sidharth.artemis@gmail.com|sidharth.artemis@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Neg cites- [[mailto:raymond.r.fang@gmail.com|raymond.r.fang@gmail.com]]</span>

=Affirmative= 


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Rancière Aff**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**St. Marks Sophomore Hoedown Round 1**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Contention 1: Ethics</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We must forego moral absolutism, and rethink ethics as revealing how elites contradict their own stated principles. In a**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**nominally democratic society, this must center on the presupposition of equality**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.104-112, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Philosophically, we must abandon the search … to the first position: external critique.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Equality is not hypothetical but an axiom which all social orders and even hierarchy must recognize**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ranciere, 2006 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Hatred of democracy,” p. 46, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is what of all things … must ultimately find out it is based.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Equality is not a goal to be achieved but an unconditional axiom from which politics must begin**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Barbour ‘10 (Charles, Department of Sociology @ U. of Alberta, “Militants of Truth, Communities of Equality: Badiou and the</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">ignorant schoolmaster,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, No. 2, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">While his work is often … if it is axiomatically denied.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Beginning with inequality only reproduces more inequalities**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Simons and Masschelein, 2010 (Maarten, Center for Educational Policy and Innovation, and Masschelein, Center for</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Philosophy of Education, “Governmental, Political and Pedagogic Subjectivation: Foucault with Rancière,” Educational</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, Nos. 5–6, p, 596, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In line with this idea … or social or collective equality.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Placing equality at the beginning of our decision calculus is key to combat global violence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Badiou ‘1, (Alain, Prof. of Philosophy @ EGS, On Evil: An Interview With Alain Badiou, http://www.cabinetmagazine.org/</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">issues/5/alainbadiou.php)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Take the nearest example: the … and inequality, and sexual barbarism.</span>

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Contention 2: Iraq</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The recent August withdrawal did not end the struggle for Iraqi independence but begun it. America now wages its combat**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**operations under the banner of stability, but their function remains the same – to violently control Iraq leaving death and**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**destruction in its wake.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Milne, 2010 (Seumas, August 4, Guardian columnist and associate editor, studied economics and politics at Oxford and</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">London universities, “The US isn't leaving Iraq, it's rebranding the occupation,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">cifamerica/2010/aug/04/us-iraq-rebranding-occupation, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For most people in Britain … Iraq's independence has only just begun.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**To justify the occupation of Iraq we claim the privileged status of liberator and declare that we are more qualified than the**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iraqi people to rule Iraq. This hierarchy of inequality makes true political action by the Iraqi people impossible. Additionally,**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**our presence stifles domestic dissent by equating support for the occupation with faith in our community’s unique moral**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**character.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sanadjian, 2004 (Manuchehr, University of Manchester, “Fetishised liberty, the fear of the other and the global juridical rule in</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Iraq,” Social Identities, 10: 5, p. 672-676, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The American and British military …between givers and receivers (Mauss, 1970).</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Ranciere calls this view of the political community consensus. Consensus represents United States laws and policies as**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**perfectly aligned with the freedom and morals which universally define the American way of life.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ranciere 10 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Dissensus: On Politics and Aesthetics,” p. 99-</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">101, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">From the beginning, the American … nations and that between them.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**This understanding of the community creates an “infinite justice” which establishes absolute Evil as the enemy and**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**legitimizes any action in the infinite war against Evil. Any attack against America becomes an attack against Good itself**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**requiring that all enemies MUST be eliminated.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ranciere 2 (Jacques, April 30, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, Counterpunch, “Prisoners of the Infinite,”</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.counterpunch.org/ranciere0430.html, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">From that point of view … matter of war unto death.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**To maintain this community, infinite justice requires constant pre-emption of threats before they materialize. Pre-emption**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**divides the world into threat and non-threat, legitimizing the destruction of the periphery and reducing the population to homo**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**sacer. All life and value is placed in the hands of the police.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Goh 6 (Irving, Visiting Fellow @ Harvard U., where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">citizenship. Research Fellow @ National U. of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In the same speech of … so must this persistence.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pre-emption fails as a frame for predicting and managing crises. Our attempts to achieve security become insecure, re-**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**creating the very catastrophes we try to avoid.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Der Derian 05 (James, “National Security: An Accident Waiting to Happen,” Harvard International Review 27.3, p. 83)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It often takes a catastrophe … in other words, "planned disasters."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**These threatening depictions of the inevitable future create blind faith in political leaders. Faith-based politics apply**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**preemption to civil society, sectioning off and containing potential dissent.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Elmer and Opel 8 (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University,</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Inevitable Future, p. 9-16)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In 2003, the Pentagon released … have given way to action.</span>

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Plan</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq.</span>

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The aff is an act of solidarity - what’s critical about equality is not an individual’s position but the recognition that we**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**are all Iraqis and all potentially threats. Only this declassification is capable of disrupting the power of the police order.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.55-56, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If strikes can be forms … undercuts the particular oppression itself.</span>

==Turkey Aff-Ohio Valley== 
Contention 1: Status Quo

US has 5000 troops in Turkey and over 90 TNW's, but decided not to remove them

Michel <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comte</span></span> (AFP), 11/6/<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, NATO to keep nuclear weapons, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hBX1m3UsgvmGJ7Mryn3QzwubaflQ?docId=CNG.b7b0e11361e7847889195c6db3707f9e.1691
NATO leaders are unlikely...by bomber aircraft

Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from Turkey,

Contention 2: Russian Relations: They’re improving but TNWs threaten progress
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogi ‘10</span></span> (Josh, Opinions vary on state of US-Russian relations,” Washington June 24, Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062305264.html)
The US-Russia "reset"...difficult?" Gati said


START isn’t enough to solve relations—more needed
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pifer 10/14</span></span> (Steven, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)
No two countries have...a more secure nuclear world.



And, Russia sees Lame Duck as last chance for relations, otherwise they collapse
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">White 11/3</span></span> (Greg, Wall Street Journal Washington Blog, “Russia Fears ‘Reset’ of Relations With U.S.”http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2010/11/03/russia-fears-reset-of-relations-with-us/ bb)
Russian officials voiced fear...under Bush" he added.


And, recent changes set the stage for withdraw, it’s key
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kovalenko ‘10</span></span> [Natalya, Will US Tactical Nukes remain in Europe? May 19, The Voice of Russia, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html]
After the Russian and US...without any preconditions.


And, strong relations key to preventing arctic disputes
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lisken ‘9</span></span> (Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source, “ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html)
A leading U.S. analyst has said...test by North Korea.


Nuclear war
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zellen ‘7</span></span>- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387&sectionID=43
In response to Russia's...over the next 20 years

Extinction
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span></span> (Nick Bostrom, 2002. Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)
A much greater existential...mankind's potential permanently


Relations and drawdowns solve de-alert and launch on warning
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright, et al 10/14</span></span> (Madeline, Strobe, and Aleksander, Foreign Policy Experts @ Brookings Institute, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)
Although the concept of...other's counterforce capabilities.

Extinction in an hour
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giacomo ‘3</span></span> Writer for Common Dreams. “Experts Fear US-Russia nuclear miscalculation” http://www. commondreams.org/headlines03/ 0522-03.htm
A study by the RAND...or incomplete information

Strong relations are impossible with Turkish TNWs, reinforces threat-based relationship
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kristensen ‘6</span></span> (Hans, Federation of American Scientists, "U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Current Posture and Policy Implications," http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_ citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php//
//S//uch nuclear bickering...continues to be threat based


US-Russia strategy will be reviewed in December, triggers the impact
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright, et al 10/14</span></span> (Madeline, Strobe, and Aleksander, Foreign Policy Experts @ Brookings Institute, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb) The nuclear security summit...the non-proliferation regime 
TNW presence accelerate NATO collapse, quick TNW withdraw solves nuclear war <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerson 11/25</span></span> (Joseph, European News Analyst, “NATO's Nuclear Doctrines: Omnicidal Weapons and "Vassal States"” Remarks presented at the No NATO/No War Counter-Summit in Lisbon, Portugal November 19, 2010 http://www.truth-out.org/natos-nuclear-doctrines-omnicidal-weapons-and-vassal-states65431 bb) The illogic collapsed in...lesser military bangs 

Contention 3: Turkish Credibility 

Iran can build bombs within a year. 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kahili</span></span>, 8/27/ <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> [Reza Kahlili is a pseudonym for an ex-CIA spy who requires anonymity for safety reasons. "A Time to Betray," his book about his double life as a CIA agent in Iran's Revolutionary Guards, “Iran goes nuclear The West vacillates while Armageddon approaches”,http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/27/iran-goes-nuclear/print/ Russia turned on the switch...becoming a nuclear armed state

And, Israel will strike alone if Iran doesn’t denuclearize, timeframe is one year 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roberts 8/14</span></span> (2010, Roberts, Bob., Israel military strike against Iran 'better than 50%', warn experts The Mirror, http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-stories/2010/08/14/israel-military-strike-against-iran-better-than-50-warn-experts-115875-22486464/) The chances of a military strike...power plant next week Strike fails and leaves nuclear retaliation, ensures war and opaque Iranian development <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Milhollin 8/18</span></span> (Gary, Executive director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, “The Futility of an Israeli Air Strike Against Iran's Nuclear Sites” The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2010/08/the-futility-of-an-israeli-air-strike-against-irans-nuclear-sites/61669/ bb) Of all the questions...a causality of military action 

Strike leads to Iranian response, withdrawal from NPT, destroys Israel-Palestine peace process, Hormuz oil disruption, and Iraq/Afghanistan failure 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Toukan & Cordesman ‘9</span></span> (Abdullah, Senior Associate @ CSIS & Former Science Advisor to King Hussein of Jordan, and Anthony H., Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS, Former Director of Intelligence for Secretary of Defense, 3/14/09 “Study on a Possible Israeli Strike on Iran’s Nuclear Development Facilities” bb) The more an Israeli threat...Syrian and Iranian assistance Retaliation = Extinction <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bosco ’6</span></span>, David, Senior Editor, Foreign Policy, 7/23/06 (http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,6188365.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary) The understanding that small...learned about managing conflict? 

Shutting Hormuz = peak oil – America lasts 57 days before economic collapse 
Edwin <span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">Black</span></span>, NYT Best-Selling Investigative Journalist, 4/18/0<span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>, (“Special Report: Iran-Israel Nuclear End Game Now Much Closer - Oil Supply At Risk” CuttingEdgeNews http://www.theautochannel.com/news/2009/04/18/457430.html bb) Iran, of course, has repeatedly...has no refining capability 

Collapses economy and agriculture 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rhodes 11/1</span></span> (Christopher, director of Fresh-lands Environmental Actions, “Resources: running out of road” Chemical and Industry dz) The issue of food production...as quickly as possible Economic slowdown triggers all scenarios <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg & Schoenfeld ‘8</span></span> (Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest) Protectionist sentiments are sure to...with external adventures 

Only Turkey can stop Iran prolif 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben Meir</span></span> 9/8/<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> [Alon, professor of IR NYU, Can Turkey Defuse Iran's Nuclear Challenge?”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html] Turkey is uniquely suited to...the United States and Israel 

Removing TNWs increases Turkey’s credibility with Iran, key to halt nuclearization. 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu ‘10</span></span> [June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu, AY Last year, Turkey held...more ambitious nuclear capabilities 
Contention 3: Proliferation 

Incirlik is insecure 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tümer ‘6</span></span> (Aslıhan, Disarm Campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6/8/06, International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm) In recent months...peace and true security 

Small and portable, existential threat – highest-level officials agree 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nunn 11/16</span></span> (Sam, Senator, “NATO, Nuclear Security and the Terrorist Threat” International Herald Tribune, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/17/opinion/17iht-ednunn.html?_r=3&ref=global bb) If we don't address this...acquisition targets for terrorists 

Nuclear terror highest probability 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 8/6</span></span> (Global Security Newswire, August 6, 2010, “WMD terrorism remains grave threat, U.S. says,” online: http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100806_6521.php, Note: Text “Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism” removed from quotation for sake of clarity The possibility that a terrorist...and scientific expertise 

Extinction 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Toon et al. 7</span></span> (Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, “Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism,” online: http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf To an increasing extent...scenarios and physical concerns 

US retaliates, goes nuclear
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice ‘6</span></span> (Patrick F., JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427) Accordingly, there is a significant...use of nuclear weapons 

NPT Credibility on the brink, now key 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison ‘10</span></span> (Grahm, Director at Belfer Center for Science and Int’l Affairs, “Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats,” January, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19819/nuclear_disorder.html) The global nuclear order...everything feasible to prevent it 

Removing TNWs solves NPT credibility. 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avery ‘9</span></span> (John, Associate Professor of Theoretical Chemistry, H.C. Ørsted Institute, University of Copenhagen, “The Way Is Open for a Nuclear Weapon-Free Northern Europe”, Active Nonviolence, January 22, p. http://www.active-nonviolence.org/?p=196) The strongest argument for...steps along the road 

Nuclear war 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utgoff ‘2</span></span> (Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”) In sum, widespread proliferation...or even whole nations 

Contention 5: Greek Relations: 

Perception of unwavering support for Turkey undermines relations 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurdistan Observer News</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Service 4 8 </span><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span><span style="color: black;"> “Free Kurdistan (Kurdistan, an ideal ally of US and Israel in the Middle East)” </span>http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1611696/posts</span></span>
The majority of the thirty million...friendly relations with it 

And, military presence betrays U.S.-Turkey bias, undermining cooperation 
<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirisci</span></span>,<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘2</span></span> ( Kemal is a Professor of International Relations, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Boðaziçi University, “The "enduring rivalry" between Greece and Turkey: can 'democratic peace' break it?” http://www.alternativesjournal.net/volume1/number1/kririsci.htm ) The logic of 'prisoner's dilemma'..in the American Congress 

Removing military support for Turkey solves relations Speros <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vryonis,</span></span> Jr., Ph.D., Director of the Speros Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenis, authority on Greek and Byzantine history and has served as director of the Alexander Onassis Center of New York University, former professor of history at UCLA, Summer <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>. [2 UCLA J. Int'l L. & For. Aff. 69, POINT-COUNTERPOINT: AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE ONGOING GRECO-TURKISH CRISIS AS A CONTRIBUTING FACTOR TO DESTABILIZATION, p. ln] Greece is the sole...state of affairs 

Key to Balkan stability, terrorism, and prolif. Daniel <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speckhard</span></span>, U.S. Ambassador to Greece, 3-26-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>. [Wilson Center, Resilience and Transition: Resetting U.S.-Greece Relations, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/index.cfm?topic_id=109941&fuseaction=topics.event_summary&event_id=512862] In turn, the previous administration...over the past years And, 

Balkans are a powder keg—results in great power wars. Nikolaus <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blome</span></span>, staff writer, 4-3-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span></span>. [Text of a report by Die Welt, Translated by 
BBC Monitoring Europe – Political, “The new NATO, quite the same,” p. ln] Ultimately, for peace in Bosnia...freedom of another attempt

Balkans conflict probability higher than ever <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grygiel ‘9</span></span>, Jakub, George H.W. Bush Assoc Prof, IR, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Johns Hopkins U (“Vacuum Wars: The Coming Competition Over Failed States,” American Interest, Jul/Aug 2009, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=622) These scenarios are not at all...falling under Russian control 

That spills over to nuclear war, bringing in the US. John S. <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, Winter 1994-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span></span>

==<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turkey Aff-Westside</span></span>== 

Contention 1: The Status Quo

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">US has 5000 troops in Turkey and over 90 TNW's, but decided not to remove them</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Michel <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comte</span></span> (AFP), 11/6/<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, NATO to keep nuclear weapons, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hBX1m3UsgvmGJ7Mryn3QzwubaflQ?docId=CNG.b7b0e11361e7847889195c6db3707f9e.1691</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NATO leaders are unlikely...by bomber aircraft</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from Turkey,</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 2: Russian Relations: They’re improving but TNWs threaten progress</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogi ‘10</span></span> (Josh, Opinions vary on state of US-Russian relations,” Washington June 24, Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062305264.html)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The US-Russia "reset"...difficult?" Gati said</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START isn’t enough to solve relations—more needed</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pifer 10/14</span></span> (Steven, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">No two countries have...a more secure nuclear world.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, Russia sees Lame Duck as last chance for relations, otherwise they collapse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">White 11/3</span></span> (Greg, Wall Street Journal Washington Blog, “Russia Fears ‘Reset’ of Relations With U.S.”http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2010/11/03/russia-fears-reset-of-relations-with-us/ bb)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Russian officials voiced fear...under Bush" he added.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, recent changes set the stage for withdraw, it’s key</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kovalenko ‘10</span></span> [Natalya, Will US Tactical Nukes remain in Europe? May 19, The Voice of Russia, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">After the Russian and US...without any preconditions.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, strong relations key to preventing arctic disputes</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lisken ‘9</span></span> (Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source, “ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A leading U.S. analyst has said...test by North Korea.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zellen ‘7</span></span>- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387&sectionID=43</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In response to Russia's...over the next 20 years</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span></span> (Nick Bostrom, 2002. Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A much greater existential...mankind's potential permanently</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Relations and drawdowns solve de-alert and launch on warning</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright, et al 10/14</span></span> (Madeline, Strobe, and Aleksander, Foreign Policy Experts @ Brookings Institute, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Although the concept of...other's counterforce capabilities.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Extinction in an hour</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giacomo ‘3</span></span> Writer for Common Dreams. “Experts Fear US-Russia nuclear miscalculation” http://www. commondreams.org/headlines03/ 0522-03.htm</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A study by the RAND...or incomplete information</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Strong relations are impossible with Turkish TNWs, reinforces threat-based relationship</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kristensen ‘6</span></span> (Hans, Federation of American Scientists, "U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Current Posture and Policy Implications," http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_ citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php//</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//S//uch nuclear bickering...continues to be threat based</span>

Now key for Turkish credibility
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Idiz 12/2</span> (Semih, “US documents put AKP in embarrassing situation” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=us-documents-put-akp-in-embarrassing-situation-2010-12-02|http://www.hurriyetdailynews. com/n.php?n=us-documents-put- akp-in-embarrassing-situation- 2010-12-02]]</span> bb)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">dispatches</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> leaked...seen as duplicitous</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 3: Turkish Credibility</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Iran can build bombs within a year.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kahili</span></span>, 8/27/ <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> [Reza Kahlili is a pseudonym for an ex-CIA spy who requires anonymity for safety reasons. "A Time to Betray," his book about his double life as a CIA agent in Iran's Revolutionary Guards, “Iran goes nuclear The West vacillates while Armageddon approaches”,http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/27/iran-goes-nuclear/print/ Russia turned on the switch...becoming a nuclear armed state</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, Israel will strike alone if Iran doesn’t denuclearize, timeframe is one year</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roberts 8/14</span></span> (2010, Roberts, Bob., Israel military strike against Iran 'better than 50%', warn experts The Mirror, http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-stories/2010/08/14/israel-military-strike-against-iran-better-than-50-warn-experts-115875-22486464/) The chances of a military strike...power plant next week Strike fails and leaves nuclear retaliation, ensures war and opaque Iranian development <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Milhollin 8/18</span></span> (Gary, Executive director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, “The Futility of an Israeli Air Strike Against Iran's Nuclear Sites” The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2010/08/the-futility-of-an-israeli-air-strike-against-irans-nuclear-sites/61669/ bb) Of all the questions...a causality of military action</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Strike leads to Iranian response, withdrawal from NPT, destroys Israel-Palestine peace process, Hormuz oil disruption, and Iraq/Afghanistan failure</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Toukan & Cordesman ‘9</span></span> (Abdullah, Senior Associate @ CSIS & Former Science Advisor to King Hussein of Jordan, and Anthony H., Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS, Former Director of Intelligence for Secretary of Defense, 3/14/09 “Study on a Possible Israeli Strike on Iran’s Nuclear Development Facilities” bb) The more an Israeli threat...Syrian and Iranian assistance Retaliation = Extinction <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bosco ’6</span></span>, David, Senior Editor, Foreign Policy, 7/23/06 (http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,6188365.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary) The understanding that small...learned about managing conflict?</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Shutting Hormuz = peak oil – America lasts 57 days before economic collapse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Edwin <span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Black</span></span>, NYT Best-Selling Investigative Journalist, 4/18/0<span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none initial; font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>, (“Special Report: Iran-Israel Nuclear End Game Now Much Closer - Oil Supply At Risk” CuttingEdgeNews http://www.theautochannel.com/news/2009/04/18/457430.html bb) Iran, of course, has repeatedly...has no refining capability</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Collapses economy and agriculture</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rhodes 11/1</span></span> (Christopher, director of Fresh-lands Environmental Actions, “Resources: running out of road” Chemical and Industry dz) The issue of food production...as quickly as possible Economic slowdown triggers all scenarios <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg & Schoenfeld ‘8</span></span> (Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest) Protectionist sentiments are sure to...with external adventures</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Only Turkey can stop Iran prolif</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben Meir</span></span> 9/8/<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> [Alon, professor of IR NYU, Can Turkey Defuse Iran's Nuclear Challenge?”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html] Turkey is uniquely suited to...the United States and Israel</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Syria will attack Israel --- tensions are high</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> New York Times, 10</span> (“Israeli Foreign Minister Adds Heat to Exchanges With Syria”, Lexis)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Mr. Lieberman was</span>...at 


Syrian missile strike snowballs to nuclear Armageddon
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strategic Analysis 2K</span> [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html|http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/ sa_00jos01.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The Syrian chemical</span>//...// <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a nuclear Armageddon.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Removing TNWs increases Turkey’s credibility with Iran and Syria, key to halt nuclearization.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu ‘10</span></span> [June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu, AY Last year, Turkey held...more ambitious nuclear capabilities</span>

Now key for Turkish credibility
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Idiz 12/2</span> (Semih, “US documents put AKP in embarrassing situation” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=us-documents-put-akp-in-embarrassing-situation-2010-12-02|http://www.hurriyetdailynews. com/n.php?n=us-documents-put- akp-in-embarrassing-situation- 2010-12-02]]</span> bb)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">dispatches</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> leaked...seen as duplicitous</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 4: Proliferation</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Incirlik is insecure</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tümer ‘6</span></span> (Aslıhan, Disarm Campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6/8/06, International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm) In recent months...peace and true security</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Small and portable, existential threat – highest-level officials agree</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nunn 11/16</span></span> (Sam, Senator, “NATO, Nuclear Security and the Terrorist Threat” International Herald Tribune, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/17/opinion/17iht-ednunn.html?_r=3&ref=global bb) If we don't address this...acquisition targets for terrorists</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear terror highest probability</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 8/6</span></span> (Global Security Newswire, August 6, 2010, “WMD terrorism remains grave threat, U.S. says,” online: http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100806_6521.php, Note: Text “Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism” removed from quotation for sake of clarity The possibility that a terrorist...and scientific expertise</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Toon et al. 7</span></span> (Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, “Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism,” online: http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf To an increasing extent...scenarios and physical concerns</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">US retaliates, goes nuclear</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice ‘6</span></span> (Patrick F., JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427) Accordingly, there is a significant...use of nuclear weapons</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NPT Credibility on the brink, now key</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison ‘10</span></span> (Grahm, Director at Belfer Center for Science and Int’l Affairs, “Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats,” January, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19819/nuclear_disorder.html) The global nuclear order...everything feasible to prevent it</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Removing TNWs solves NPT credibility.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avery ‘9</span></span> (John, Associate Professor of Theoretical Chemistry, H.C. Ørsted Institute, University of Copenhagen, “The Way Is Open for a Nuclear Weapon-Free Northern Europe”, Active Nonviolence, January 22, p. http://www.active-nonviolence.org/?p=196) The strongest argument for...steps along the road</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utgoff ‘2</span></span> (Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”) In sum, widespread proliferation...or even whole nations</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 5: Greek Relations:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Perception of unwavering support for Turkey undermines relations</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurdistan Observer News</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Service 4 8 </span><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span><span style="color: black;"> “Free Kurdistan (Kurdistan, an ideal ally of US and Israel in the Middle East)” </span>http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1611696/posts</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The majority of the thirty million...friendly relations with it</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, military presence betrays U.S.-Turkey bias, undermining cooperation</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirisci</span></span>,<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘2</span></span> ( Kemal is a Professor of International Relations, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Boðaziçi University, “The "enduring rivalry" between Greece and Turkey: can 'democratic peace' break it?” http://www.alternativesjournal.net/volume1/number1/kririsci.htm ) The logic of 'prisoner's dilemma'..in the American Congress</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Removing military support for Turkey solves relations </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Speros <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vryonis,</span></span> Jr., Ph.D., Director of the Speros Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenis, authority on Greek and Byzantine history and has served as director of the Alexander Onassis Center of New York University, former professor of history at UCLA, Summer <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>. [2 UCLA J. Int'l L. & For. Aff. 69, POINT-COUNTERPOINT: AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE ONGOING GRECO-TURKISH CRISIS AS A CONTRIBUTING FACTOR TO DESTABILIZATION, p. ln] Greece is the sole...state of affairs</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Key to Balkan stability, terrorism, and prolif. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Daniel <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speckhard</span></span>, U.S. Ambassador to Greece, 3-26-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>. [Wilson Center, Resilience and Transition: Resetting U.S.-Greece Relations, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/index.cfm?topic_id=109941&fuseaction=topics.event_summary&event_id=512862] In turn, the previous administration...over the past years And,</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Balkans are a powder keg—results in great power wars. Nikolaus</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blome</span></span>, staff writer, 4-3-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span></span>. [Text of a report by Die Welt, Translated by</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">BBC Monitoring Europe – Political, “The new NATO, quite the same,” p. ln] Ultimately, for peace in Bosnia...freedom of another attempt</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Balkans conflict probability higher than ever </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grygiel ‘9</span></span>, Jakub, George H.W. Bush Assoc Prof, IR, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Johns Hopkins U (“Vacuum Wars: The Coming Competition Over Failed States,” American Interest, Jul/Aug 2009, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=622) These scenarios are not at all...falling under Russian control</span>

//<span style="font-style: normal;">That spills over to nuclear war, bringing in the US. </span>//
//<span style="font-style: normal;">John S. <span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, Winter 1994-<span class="Cites"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span></span></span>niversity of Virginia, Winter 1994-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span>. [Political Science Quarterly 109(5), NATO’s functions after the cold war, p. Academic Search Premier]//


=Negative= 
==CP== 
===Consult Japan-KCKCC Rd. 6=== 
Only consultation prevents conflict and politics over Futenma – even if the result of the consultation is the plan, the process is important, no lie perm<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> – </span></span>genuine consultation key 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tanaka 09</span></span> **–** Senior Fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hitoshi, “ The US-Japan Alliance: Beyond Futenma,” vol. 5 no. 1, pub JCIE, February 2010, accessed 7/17/10, http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/EAI/5-1.pdf] Red</span> <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Deepening the Alliance...positions become entrenched</span>
Consultation critical to survival of the alliance—failure to consult collapses Asian stability 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green & Cronin 99</span></span> (Michael J. Green, Patrick M. Cronin, Former Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asian Affairs, National Security Council, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program for a New American Security (CNAS) “The US-Japan Alliance: past, present, and future” p. 26-28 [[http://books.google.com/books?id=LKiM8udiETcC&pg=PA377&lpg=PA377&dq=consultation+japan+US&source=bl&ots=wr1FizJ_dX&sig=Hp_nAyxuMCmNM9ahgp_GOdPvuqc&hl=en&ei=seXFTMWwFo3_nAfyk_zfCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CDQQ6AEwBzhu#v=onepage&q=consultation%20japan%20US&f=false]]) RF Looking backward, it is clear...alliance is irreplacable 

The alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars 
Richard L. [Political Science Quarterly 109(5), NATO’s functions after the cold war, p. Academic Search Premier] In all these ways...existence of nuclear weapon
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armitage</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard</span> (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm) Asia, in the throes of...global security strategy 
==DA== 

===//START DA-KCKCC//=== 

START will pass but it’s close – vote counts and better than any card you have 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergman 11/4</span></span> (Max, Political Analyst @ Wonk Room, “Elections Shouldn’t Impact START Ratification” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/2010/11/04/elections-shouldnt-impact-start-ratification/]]</span> bb) There has been a lot of ... vote on the Senate floor? 

Political capital key to winning over conservatives and special interests 
Michael <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon</span></span>, Co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center and the author or editor of thirteen books and over 350 articles, <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10/19</span></span>. “Scare Tactics,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://krepon.armscontrolwonk.com/archive/2904/scare-tactics]]</span> <span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arms control battles</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the ... a very </span></span><span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">smart game plan</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span></span>

START key to solve accidents, food wars, terrorism and key to Pakistan, Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambers 11/4</span></span> (William, Author of "Ending World Hunger: School Lunches for Kids Around the World," features over 50 interviews with officials from the United Nations World Food Programme, Catholic Relief Services, World Vision, ChildsLife International and Shakira's Barefoot Foundation, frequent contributor to US newspapers, “Ratify START Treaty and Fight Global Hunger”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://blogcritics.org/culture/article/senate-ratify-start-treaty-and-fight/]]</span> bb) During some of the most ...<span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> on ST<span style="border: initial none initial;">ART and food security.</span></span></span> Food shortages = World War III William <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvin</span></span>, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, Atlantic Monthly, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 19<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span>, p. 47-64 The population-crash scenario is ... warming from the North Atlantic. 

Accidents mean extinction in an hour 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giacomo ‘3</span></span> Writer for Common Dreams. “Experts Fear US-Russia nuclear miscalculation” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www/|http://www]]</span>. commondreams.org/headlines03/ 0522-03.htm <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A </span></span><span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">study by</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">RAND</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;"> ... on incorrect or incomplete information.</span>
===FTA DA-Glenbrooks=== 

<span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">KORUS <span style="border: medium none;">FTA<span style="border: medium none;"> will pass but it’s close—Republican vote is key </span></span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schott 11/8</span></span><span class="underLight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeffrey J, </span></span>Peterson Institute for International Economics, “Congress and KORUS FTA”, [[http://www.www.petersoninstitute.org/publications/opeds/oped.cfm?ResearchID=1706]]) RF The Democratic Party...Republican electoral gains. 

Political capital key to passage of US-Korea FTA—requires working with Republicans 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green 11/1</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Michael, senior advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., “[Viewpoint] Echoes of the Past Haunt G-20” </span>[[http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2927756]]) RF In June 1933...lingers in the air. 

FTA solves competitiveness, green technology, and the environment 
Anthony <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim</span></span>, Policy Analyst in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation, 6/28/20<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>. “Time to Build a Clean Energy Future Through the KORUS FTA,” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA]]</span> "Clean energy" has become...clean energy technology. 

U.S. technological leadership is crucial to America’s global primacy and economic prosperity 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Segal, 4</span></span> – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html)
JMP
The United States' global...entrepreneurship at home.

The result is global nuclear exchange 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, 95</span></span> – Rand Corportation
(Zalmay, “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2, pg. 84, Spring, Lexis)
Under the third option...of power system.

===SKFTA DA-Westside=== 

SKFTA will pass – can’t get tied down in other debates 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Reuters 1/13</span></span> (http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSN1328075220110113 bb)
President Barack Obama's...Kirk said


South Korea FTA will pass now – capital is key 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Economist Intelligence Unit 12/22</span></span>/2010 “Panama economy: Will US trade deal advance?” p. Lexis
At first glance...election draws closer



SKFTA key to Korean stability 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">USA Today 12/26</span></span>**/2010**. “Our view on commerce: Trade deal with South Korea deserves rapid ratification,” http://www.uskoreafta.org/news/editorial-our-view-commerce-trade-deal-south-korea-deserves-rapid-ratification-usa-today
Another argument for...part of East Asia


Nuclear war 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Chu ‘6</span></span> (2-13, John S., MAJ, US Army, “ Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)
Although the 1953...use of nuclear weapons