<span style="line-height: 115%;">Blanket AC </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">I. Framework </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">A. Debate </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">When debaters hear suffering, they don’t pity those suffering. </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Gordon </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="line-height: 115%;">Mitchell</span></span>__</span>**<span style="line-height: 115%;"> 19</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="line-height: 115%;">98</span></span>__</span>**<span style="line-height: 115%;"> (Upitt prof of Comm and coach) "Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate" Argumentation & Advocacy; Fall98, Vol. 35 Issue 2, pg. Ebsco </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“While an isolated…of political life” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Rowland explains the benefits of the narrative paradigm. </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Rowland, Robert C. (2005). “The Narrative Perspective.” Chapter Eight. In J.A. Kuypers (Ed.), The Art of Rhetorical Criticism. Boston: Allyn and Bacon. Page 134. </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“The important rhetorical…the death camps” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Narratives also provide a sense of identity between the victim and the audience. </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Rowland, Robert C. (2005). “The Narrative Perspective.” Chapter Eight. In J.A. Kuypers (Ed.), The Art of Rhetorical Criticism. Boston: Allyn and Bacon.  </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“The second rhetorical…him or her” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">B. Science </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">There is a proportional relationship between advancement of technology and distance from the victim. </span>
__<span style="line-height: 115%;">Amulya K.N. Reddy</span>__<span style="line-height: 115%;"> is an energy analyst, a campaigner against nuclear weapons, and <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">President at International Energy Initiative, Bangalore</span>.</span> “The Morality of Designing Nuclear Weapons,” <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Presentation to the Panel Discussion organized by the Bangalore Chapter of Indian Scientists against Nuclear Weapons</span></span>, Raman Research Institute, January 2000 </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“As the scale…and burning capacity” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">And this mindset is adopted by scientists, leading to actions being taken totally devoid of morality. </span>
__<span style="line-height: 115%;">Amulya K.N. Reddy</span>__<span style="line-height: 115%;"> is an energy analyst, a campaigner against nuclear weapons, and <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">President at International Energy Initiative, Bangalore</span>.</span> “The Morality of Designing Nuclear Weapons,” <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Presentation to the Panel Discussion organized by the Bangalore Chapter of Indian Scientists against Nuclear Weapons</span></span>, Raman Research Institute, January 2000 </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“Scientists escape responsibility…oppression and evil” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">This problem is uniquely caused by nuclear weapons. </span>
__<span style="line-height: 115%;">Amulya K.N. Reddy</span>__<span style="line-height: 115%;"> is an energy analyst, a campaigner against nuclear weapons, and President at International Energy Initiative, Bangalore. “The Morality of Designing Nuclear Weapons,” Presentation to the Panel Discussion organized by the Bangalore Chapter of Indian Scientists against Nuclear Weapons, Raman Research Institute, January 2000 </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“Nuclear weapons are…of Justice succeeding” </span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; line-height: 115%;">The only way to avoid this problem in the scientific community is by examining the use of nuclear weapons through narratives. </span></span>
__<span style="line-height: 115%;">Amulya K.N. Reddy</span>__<span style="line-height: 115%;"> is an energy analyst, a campaigner against nuclear weapons, and President at International Energy Initiative, Bangalore. “The Morality of Designing Nuclear Weapons,” Presentation to the Panel Discussion organized by the Bangalore Chapter of Indian Scientists against Nuclear Weapons, Raman Research Institute, January 2000 </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">“I submit that…life and destiny” </span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">II. Narrative </span>
Takeharu Terao, survivor of the Little Boy Bomb, “A Personal Record of Hiroshima A-Bomb Survival (Part 2 and 3 Repost),” Personal Blog, August 2004, [[http://www.coara.or.jp/~ryoji/abomb/a-bomb2.html|http://www.coara.or.jp/%7Eryoji/abomb/a-bomb2.html]]
“On the fateful…I can post”