[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===__1AC__=== 
__Contention 1 is Orientalism__
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">After 9/11, the United States began to spread democracy through violence and terror. This project of colonialism is inextricable from the continuation of the war – absent withdrawal, the initial legacy will continue. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kramer and Michalowski 2005 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">(Ronald, professor university of western Michigan, and Raymond J. Michalowski, professor northern Arizona university. “War, Aggression and State Crime” April 05, Centre for Crime and Justice Studies)</span></span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Even though a stroke of good luck...<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">neo-liberal capitalism.’</span></span></span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Orientalism is undeniably linked to war—The American media has twisted facts in favor of U.S. imperialism </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Said, 2003 </span></span>
(Edward, professor at Columbia, “Preface to Orientalism”, 4/2003, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2003/650/op11.htm]]</span>)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I wish I could say that general understanding...as an isolated humanist.</span>


__First is securitization__
The continued framing of Iraq as a security threat creates a nexus through which it is impossible to approach it as anything other than an object in need of development and westernization. 
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bilgin, 2008. </span>
(Pinar, Department of International Relations, Bilkent University, “Thinking Past Western IR?” Third World Quarterly. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01436590701726392</span>)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">One speciﬁc product of such synergy...<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">very same ‘realities’</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> </span>

This otherization of external threats provides the State with a mandate to violently eradicate any and all opposition.
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bilgin, 2004. <span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">(Pinar, Department of International Relations, Bilkent University, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28)</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">This top-down approach...</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> to jump-start Arab–Israeli peacemaking. </span>



Don’t trust their authors—colonial sources are an attempt to forcibly expand hijacked concepts of democracy and American values in Iraq. The result has been a quarantine society and mass death
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Said, 2003</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Edward, professor at Columbia and Palestinian-American literary theorist, a founding figure in postcolonialism, “The Appalling consequences are now clear”, 4/22/03, http://www.counterpunch.org/said04222003.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">We avoid our solemn duty ...graduate of London University."</span>


The occupation of Iraq is an attempt at enforcing democracy by the sword. The discursive project of colonialism pervades all debate on the war - only a complete break with securitized logic of the status quo offers hope for resistance. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Burke</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, <span style="font-weight: normal;">2005 <span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">(Anthony, Prof. of Politcs & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, [Social Identities 11.4, “Freedom’s Freedom: American Enlightenment and Permanent War,” p. 322-3]</span></span></span>**

**<span style="font-size: 15px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Hann</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">ah Arendt recognized this instrumental, utilitarian...<span style="font-size: 15px;">rather reappear, in their full diversity’</span></span></span>**



The affirmative internally deconstructs contemporary Imperialism through this break with the security discourse surrounding Iraq, 
Welch, 2008 
(Michael, Professor in the Criminal Justice program at Rutgers University, received a PhD in sociology from the University of North Texas, author of numerous books, including Crimes of Power and States of Impunity: The U.S. Response to Terror (2009, Rutgers University Press), Scapegoats of September 11th: Hate Crimes and State Crimes in the War on Terror (2006, Rutgers University Press), Ironies of Imprisonment (2005, Sage), and Detained: Immigration Laws and the Expanding I.N.S. Jail Complex, 9/26/08, “Ordering Iraq: Reﬂections on Power, Discourse, & Neocolonialism”)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">By attending to discourse and the recolonization...political, economic, and military maneuverings. </span></span>


__Next is racism.__
The Language used to describe the Islamic world has shaped a stereotypical and racist view of Iraq and the Middle East. 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson, 2007 </span>**
(Richard, author of Writing the War on terrorism, Alive Al Day, Critical Terrorism Studies: A New Research Agenda, Constructing Enemies: “Islamic Terrorism” in Political and Academic Discourse, 2007)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The Genealogy of the ‘Islamic Terrorism’ Discourse...<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 19px;">proliferation of weapons of mass destruction</span></span>


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The project in Iraq is a new realist reformation of the “White Man’s Burden”. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hassan, 2008 </span></span>
(Salah, Goldwin Smith Professor and Director of the Africana Studies and Research Center, and professor of African and African Diaspora art history and visual culture, Department of History of Art and Visual Culture, Cornell University, “Never-Ending Occupations” CR: The New Centennial Review, Volume 8, Number 1, Spring 2008)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The long-term proposition that a U.S. victory...fulfill their historical role.</span></span>



The Iraqi colonial project is part of the Manifest Destiny of the 21st Century. The non-western other is annihilated as an enemy of democracy and security. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Ray, 2005 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Sangeeta, associate professor in the Department of English and Comparative Literature and the director of the American Cultures Program at the University of Maryland, Blackwell Publishing, “A Companion to Post Colonial Studies” p.575-6) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So to restate my...<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">in reterritorialized places.</span></span>

The idea that US troops are necessary for Iraqi Stability is a Racist description of the non-western “Other” that ensures genocide and unending war. 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Batur, 2007 </span>**
(Pinar, PhD at UT-Austin – Prof. of Sociology at Vassar, “The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">At the turn of the 20th century...<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">racist ideology with dizzying frequency</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="color: windowtext;">Racism must be rejected in every instance </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; margin-bottom: 3pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -5.4pt; margin-top: 0in;">Barndt, 1991</span>

(Joseph Barndt, Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56)
To study racism is to study walls...not allow it to continue.


The illusion that racism is a result of individual bigotry masks racism’s true power – its control of society’s institutions.
Barndt continues
(Joseph Barndt, Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; line-height: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden;"> ﻿</span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: initial; background-repeat: initial; color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">Racism can be expressed with an iron fist...that hide racism’s power. ﻿</span>

The immediate result of the war was ongoing material violence. 2 million Iraqi civilians have died through genocidal sanctions. 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hassan, 2010 </span>**
(Ghali, writer about political and social issues in Iraq under US occupation) May 4, 2010. The “New” Iraq. http://countercurrents.org/hassan040510.htm)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is no doubt that the barbaric attack...<span style="font-family: Georgia,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">world only superpower’.</span></span></span>



We have to reject colonialism—allowing it to continue will result in the death and destruction of the planet. 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaikh, 2007 </span>**
(Nermeen , <span style="font-size: 13pt;">studied politics at Cambridge University in England and Queen's University</span> and <span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">worked at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute in Islamabad and the International Institute for Environment and Development</span>, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” 2007)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">It would probably be incorrect... generally (Anidjar, 2003, 2007).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Thus the plan: The<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> United States Federal Government should withdraw all of its military and police presence from Iraq.</span></span>**

__Solvency__

Acknowledging US defeat in Iraq is the death knell of capitalist imperialism that marks a new era of a more just foreign policy
**Landy, 2004**
(Joanne, co-director of the Campaign for Peace and Democracy and a member of the New Politics editorial board http://www.zcommunications.org/iraq-the-case-for-immediate-u-s-withdrawal-by-joanne-landy.pdf)
The war against Iraq was wrong...continuing this nightmare.



The Current view of international security is based on civilized/uncivilized binaries. We assume Iraq is a breeding ground for conflict. The affirmative resists colonialism by examining the historical contexts of US occupation. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Barkawi</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> **and Laffey, 2006** </span>
(Tarak, Prof. in Interenational Security @ Univ. of Cambridge, Mark , Prof. in International Politics @ Univ. of London, //Review of International Studies// 32, “The postcolonial moment in security studies,” p. 344-6)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">What was true of...relations with the powerful.</span>


The plan begins a shift in US policies of colonialism into more peaceful and equitable societies. It is time to begin questioning whether or not our reasons and justifications our correct. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Brydon</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, **2006** </span>
(Diana, University of Western Ontario, Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Although </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ultimate orientation of a postcolonial...genuine dialogue might begin.</span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anyone who stands in the way of US colonization are dehumanized and criminalized in the name of promoting independence </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Brydon</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, **2006** </span>
(Diana, University of Western Ontario, Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Balibar suggests that there...international, and collaborative fashion.</span>

Dehumanization is the root cause of genocide, war crimes, and rights violations. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Maiese, 2003 </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michelle, a graduate student of Philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder and is a part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium: Beyond Intractability The Beyond Intractability Project: Guy Burgess and Heidi Burgess, Co-Directors and Editors, 7/03, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/]]</span> Strong)</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Once certain groups are stigmatized...<span style="font-family: Georgia,helvetica,sans-serif;">the pursuit of common goals.</span></span>**</span>


AND, Only weigh our impacts—any other framing perpetuates the idea that the state is in a position to control the world—this idea reduces all of life to objects and tools to be policed. It deems populations as expendable and naturalizes a mode of politics that ensures absolute war and extermination. 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2007 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Anthony, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ. of New South Wales, Sydney, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 190-210)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Even though he could not predict it...ashes in the President's mouth.</span>



Their violent ontology must be rejected. This is an Apriori issue that must be resolved first. 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dillon, 1999</span>**
(Michael, professor of politics at University of Lancaster, “Moral spaces: The scandal of the refugee”)
<span class="CardsNotUnderlined"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The question of </span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">ontology</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">was...</span>__<span class="CardsNotUnderlined"><span style="font-family: Georgia,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">technocrats of decision making.</span>__ </span></span>








=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
===RES Politics=== 

RES will pass in lame-duck.
Restuccia 10/7, Andrew, Energy and Environment Reporter, The Washington Independent, 10/7/10 (“Sierra Club’s Pierce Weighs Chances of Energy Bill Passage Next Year,” [[http://washingtonindependent.com/99966/sierra-clubs-pierce-weighs-chances-of-energy-bill-passage-next-year]])
In an interview with The Washington Independent...problem for the fate of the Bingaman bill

{LINK...}

Polcap key.
McGowan 10/6, Elizabeth, SolveClimate (“The White House Goes Solar. Why Now?,”[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUS340785526620101006]])
The White House news did break...
happen on the energy and climate front


RES solves economic recovery and renewable development – global signal now key to transition to green economy.
Huffington Post 10/4, 10/4/10 (“Let's Seize the Opportunity to Pass a Renewable Electricity Standard This Year,”[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tulsi-tanti/lets-seize-the-opportunit_b_749164.html]])
As Sen. Brownback put it when... senators and clear the proposed legislation this year.






Economic recovery key to prevent global great power wars
Mead ’09, Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy at the Council of Foreign Relations, 2/4/09 (“Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]])