[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Greenhill:
[The American Heritage® New Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, Third Edition Copyright © 2005 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved.]
“Any weapon that employs a nuclear reaction for its explosive force”

V: Morality
VC: Rule Consequentialism

1. Morality is derived in action affirming the unconditional value of rational beings as equals, this flows into consequentialism

[Cummiskey, 1996. Cummiskey, David (Associate Professor of Philosophy, Bates College). Kantian Consequentialism. 1996.]
“According to Kant...have overriding importance”


1. Possession of nuclear weapons leads to nuclear terrorism
Deterrence, doesn't work, states can pass terrorists nukes who can't be deterred.
[Robbins, 07 (James S., “The Dangers of Deterrence” Editor, Ilan Berman, Vice President for Policy of the American Foreign Policy Council. An expert on regional security in the Middle East, Taking on Tehran: strategies for Confronting the Islamic Republic, 26-8)]
“Beyond the energizing...be equally devastating”

The probability of a terrorist attack is high
[How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States? Michael A. Levi, David M. Rubenstein Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment and Director of the Program on Energy Security and Climate Change April 20, 2007]
“From the technical...discount the risk”

A nuclear terrorist attack would be devastating
[John R. Wagley, explains (Analyst in Foreign Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division), Transnational Organized Crime: Principal Threats and U.S. Responses. CRS Report for Congress, March 20, 2006]
“Many experts fear...trillion in damage”
2. Nuclear Weapons don't deter conventional war and can actually increase war

Nuclear Weapons don't deter war because the threat isn't credible
[Yehoshafat Harkabi 2008 (Alan Dowty (Editor), Derek Orlans(Editor), Yigal Shenkman(Translator) Transaction Publishers, pg. 84]
“The sheer efficiency...than its continuation”

This is supported by the fact that empirically deterring conventional warfare fails.
[Ward Wilson 2008 “The Myth of Nuclear Deterrence”. James Martin Center for Non Proliferation Studies]
“These explanations however...possibility, implacable foes)”

3. Accidental Nuclear Launch is inevitable if we possess nuclear weapons, culminating in extinction.

Russian early launch detection systems are failing and have failed in the past almost triggering nuclear war.
[Nick Roth August 9th 2006 Nuclear Age Peace Foundation C-Span Presentation]
“One of the...detect possible launches”

There has also been examples of mechanical failures and other problems in the past.
[Leslie, 1996. Leslie, John. The End of the World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction. 1996.]
“The term 'accidental...programmed to explode”

The effect is further compounded in developing nation's possession of nuclear arms.
[Sagan, 1994. Sagan, Scott. “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons.” International Security. 1994.]
“First some emergent...safety design efforts”

An accidental launch could cause extinction.
[ Morton Mintz. The American Prospect, 2/26/01 “Two Minutes to Launch”]
“Our results have...checklist, by rote”

Statistical Modeling shows Nuclear War is the worst impact and can lead to Extinction.
[Sagan 2(See Sagan cite)]
“Our results have...the human species”

Deterrence will fail because it assumes realist rational actor models which are empirically not supported.

[Busch ‘4 (Nathan, Visiting Ass. Prof. Public & Int’l Affairs – Center for Int’l. Trade & Security – UGA, “ No End in Sight: The continuing Menace of Nuclear Proliferation”, p. 313)]

“while abstract theorizing...regarding nuclear proliferation”

Even if they win nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction, one use destroys the firebreak, causing more nuclear wars, this turns the mindset shift, nukes become necessary to win

[Professor and the Director of the Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia, “Universal Deterrence or Conceptual Collapse? Liberal Pessimism and Utopian Realism,” The Coming Crisis: Nuclear Proliferation, U.S. Interests, and World Order, ed. Utgoff, 2000, p. 82]

“Quite opposite reactions...levels originally envisioned

==Negative== 

Greenhill:
Morality is derived in actions affirming the unconditional value of rational beings as equals; this flows into consequentialism.

[Cummiskey, 1996. Cummiskey, David (Associate Professor of Philosophy, Bates College). Kantian Consequentialism. 1996.]
“According to Kant...have overriding importance”

Governments are structured and necessitated to constrain their actions by utility

[Hasnas, 1995. Hasnas, John (Assistant Professor of Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute). “From Cannibalism to Caesarians: Two Conceptions of Fundamental Rights.” 1995.]
“But consider now...Standard operating procedure
A. Nuclear Weapons deter war
[Kenneth Waltz, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” Adelphi Papers, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies, 1981]
“Nuclear Weapons lessen...and more destruction”
B. The decrease in war is also empirically confirmed
[Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010.]
“The equivalent destructive... a world war”
Aff must defend disarmament shell
A. Interpretation: The affirmative can assume the action in the resolution takes place and that all nuclear states disarm. However, disadvantages about the physical problems of disarmament must be negative ground.
Standards:
1. Kills Predictability
2. Kills Ground
Voter: Fairness


Phil-spec
A. Interpretation: The affirmative can assume the action in the resolution takes place and that all nuclear states disarm. However, disadvantages about the physical problems of disarmament must be negative ground.
Standards:
1. Advocacy Shift
2. No brightlines since they give no way to ascertain if something is moral.
2. Kills Ground
Voter: Fairness 

No First Use CP:
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No First Use policies only allow states to retaliate after a nuclear detonation on ourselves or our allies.</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Countdown to Zero Neglects the Greatest Nuclear Danger of All”. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: medium; line-height: 24px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tad </span>Daley. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">August 16, 2010. Huffington Post]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">"However many nuclear...allies or ourselves"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">No First Use policies would prevent preemptive nuclear war strategies.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">[Furthering No First Use in India-Pakistan Context”. Ali </span><span style="font-style: normal;">__**Ahmed.**__ </span></span><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">July 2009. Institute for Defense Studies and Analysis]</span></span>

<span style="font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">"Additionally the danger...heightened in conflict"</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Hence the Counterplan: **States** </span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">will maintain their arsenal of nuclear weapons and adopt a no-first use policy.</span>**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**<span style="background: transparent;">Observation 1: Competition</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The CP is competitive because the Aff has to defend States not possessing or disarming nuclear weapons, so possession of nuclear</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">weapons with the adoption of a no-first use policy is neg ground.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**<span style="background: transparent;">Observation 2: Benefits</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1. No First Use doctrines would prohibit the deliberate use of nuclear weapons.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000000;">[“<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">NON-FIRST USE AS A WAY OF OUTLAWING NUCLEAR WEAPONS”. </span></span><span style="line-height: 24px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alexei </span>__**Arbatov.**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">November </span>__**2008]**__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0in;">"Hence as long...positive control) respectively"</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">2.Nations that have adopted a no first use policy won't launch first.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in;">[“<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">No Launch On Warning”. Alan F. </span><span style="font-style: normal;">__**Phillips**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">*, M.D., May 2002.]</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">"To change from...bomb alarm signal"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 


<span style="font-size: 80%;">Governments must be util oriented.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">John Hasnas “From Cannibalism to Caesarians: Two Conceptions of Fundamental Rights” 1995. “But consider now…standard operating procedure”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">VC=Rule Consequentialism</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">My advocacy is that I will defend an affirmative world where a Harm-Reduction model is used for creating drug laws. I reserve the right to clarify. I will defend links to disadvantages resulting from US implementation in addition to general harms and indicts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Public health is harm reduction</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Ellen Benoit “Not Just a Matter of Criminal Justice: States, Institutions, and North American Drug Policy” Sociological forum June 2003 “In the harm-reduction…and drug abuse”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Harm reduction is reducing suffering from diseases, and reducing harm done to addict by social norms</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">James Nolan “Symposium: Harm Reduction and the American Difference: Drug Treatment and Problem-Solving Courts in comparative Perspective” School of Law Journal of Healthcare Law and Policy 2010 “The goal of…attitudes towards them”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Contention 1: American Drug Policy needs change</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">A. Criminalization is bad</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Drug laws attack minorities</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Katherine Beckett, Kris Nyrop, Lori Pfingst, Melissa Bowen “Drug Use, Drug Possession Arrests, and the Question of Race: Lessons of Seattle” Social Problems 2005 “The most recent…black and/or Latino”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Racism leads to Genocide</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Michel Foucalt “Society Must be Defended” 2001 Pg. 256-258 “So you can…to various anomalies.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">B. Public health is the only way to create effective treatment</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Dorie Klein, robin E. Miller, Amanda Nobel, and Richard Speiglman “Incorporation a Public Health Approach in Drug Law: Lessons from Local Expansion of Treatment Capacity and Access under California’s Proposition 36.” 2004 “A second key…referral for clients.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Contention 2: Heroin</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">A. Criminal Justice makes the problem worse</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Prison is ineffective</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Ricardo X. Ramos “Crime and (Cruel and Unusual) Punishment: a Policy Recommendation.” Revista de Derecho Puertorriqueno 2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">“Becker argues that…in receiving it”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Heroin kills.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Gideon Pollya “Australia threatened by U.S. State Terrorism” October 22, 2005 “The breakdown of...1%; heroin-related).”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">B. Public health works</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Kevin Zeese “Drug Policy in America—A continuing Debate: Engaging the Debate Reform vs. More of the Same” Fordham Urban Law Journal 2003 “Regarding heroin, a…by the program”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Contention 3: Safe Injection Facilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">I meet that this approach is harm reduction, and that it is effective in decreasing disease transmission and overdose</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Avert “Needle Exchanges and Harm Reduction.” Avert “Like needle exchanges…to drug use”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">I save lives.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Ahmed Bayoumi, Gregory Zaric “The cost-effectiveness of Vancouver’s supervised injection facility” Canadian medical Association Journal 2008. “we calculated that…greater health benefits”</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">HIV kills a lot of people.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Avert 2. Ibid.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">“During 2008 more…to antiretroviral treatment”</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">V: Gov Legitimacy </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">[Hasnas, 1995. Hasnas, John (Assistant Professor of Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute). “From Cannibalism to Caesarians: Two Conceptions of Fundamental Rights.” 1995.] "but consider now...standard operating procedure" </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">VC: Rule Consequentialism </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">PUBLIC HEALTH DISREGARDS ENFORCEMENT TO PURSUE CURTAILING NEGATIVE EFFECTS. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Not Just a Matter of Criminal Justice: States, Institutions, and North American Drug Policy Author(s): Ellen Benoit </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Source: Sociological Forum, Vol. 18, No. 2 (Jun., 2003), "in the harm-reduction...and drug abuse" </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">HARM REDUCTION FOCUSES ON THE ADDICT. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">James L. Nolan, Jr. 2010. “SYMPOSIUM: HARM REDUCTION AND THE AMERICAN DIFFERENCE: DRUG TREATMENT AND PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS IN COMPARATIVE PERSPECTIVE.” University of Maryland, School of Law Journal of Health Care Law & Policy. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS ARE PROBLEMATIC "the goal of...attitudes toward them" </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">C1: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">the criminal justice approach is bad </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Amanda Kay. ‘02. “COMMENT: THE AGONY OF ECSTASY: RECONSIDERING THE PUNITIVE APPROACH TO UNITED STATES DRUG POLICY.” Fordham Urban Law Journal. "in the past...the drug war" </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">It is empirically proven that drug laws disproportionately target minorities. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">KATHERINE BECKETT et al (KRIS NYROP, LORI PFINGST, MELISSA BOWEN). 2K5. “Drug Use, Drug Possession Arrests, and the Question of Race: Lessons from Seattle.” Social Problems, Vol. 52, No. 3 "the results were..black and/or Latino" </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Racism leads to significant harms </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Foucault 76 (Michel, History of Systems of Thought @ College de France, Lecture of 17 March, in Society Must Be Defended, 2001, p.256-258] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"so you can...in racist terms" </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">The criminal justice system for drugs needs to be changed </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Kevin B. Zeese. ‘03. “DRUG POLICY IN AMERICA -- A CONTINUING DEBATE: ENGAGING THE DEBATE REFORM VS. MORE OF THE SAME.” Fordham Urban Law Journal. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"for decades the...in the U.S." </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">C2: A prison industrial complex has cost us billions. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Ricardo X. Ramos. ‘08. "Crime and (Cruel and Unusual) Punishment: A Policy Recommendation." Revista de Derecho Puertorriqueno. 47 Rev. D.P. 205 </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"incarcertaion alone does...are directly related" </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dorie Klein, Robin E. Miller, Amanda Noble, and Richard </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Speiglman [et al]</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">‘04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">“Incorporating a Public Health Approach in Drug Law: Lessons from Local Expansion of Treatment Capacity and Access under California's Proposition 36."</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“A second key…referral for clients.” </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">c3: Heroin treatment has worked </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Kevin B. Zeese. ‘03. “DRUG POLICY IN AMERICA -- A CONTINUING DEBATE: ENGAGING THE DEBATE REFORM VS. MORE OF THE SAME.” Fordham Urban Law Journal. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"regarding heroin a...by the program" </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Heroine kills thousands worldwide annually </span>
<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gideon</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Polya </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">10/22/</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">2005 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">USA.mediamonitors.net</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"Australia threatened by U.S. State Terrorism" </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"the breakdown of...were heroine-related" </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">HIV kills thousands worldwide annually</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">CDC</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION]. HIV IN THE UNITED STATES. JULY **2010.** </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"“CDC estimates that…the epidemic began.” </span>



==Negative== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Neg</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Drugs DA </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Morality is derived in actions affirming the unconditional value of rational beings as equals; this flows into consequentialism. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Cummiskey, 1996. Cummiskey, David (Associate Professor of Philosophy, Bates College). Kantian Consequentialism. 1996.] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“According to Kant...have overriding importance” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Governments are structured and necessitated to constrain their actions by utility </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Hasnas, 1995. Hasnas, John (Assistant Professor of Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute). “From Cannibalism to Caesarians: Two Conceptions of Fundamental Rights.” 1995.] </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">There are currently drug cartels in Mexico. We are on the brink. If Mexico falls we'll border a country controlled by drug-lords.</span>** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert Bonner “The new cocaine cowboys” August 2010 “Destroying the drug… and South America” </span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many have died already due to drug violence.</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert Bonner2“The new cocaine cowboys” August 2010 “Even so the.. in 2009 alone” </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The aff's advocacy increases the demand for marijuana through decriminalization which increases the cartel's income.</span>** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Daniel Reches “Decriminalization is not the answer” The Oklahoma Daily April 08, 2010 </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“the worst part… and drug cartels” </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This increase is also empirically confirmed historically in the U.S.</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Act Missouri </span>__<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Topic: Marijuana Legalization Issues</span>__ __<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Partnership for drug free communities</span>__ </span>
<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Volume 3, Number 1</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> “In the 1970s.. the drug use” </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is significant. Marijauana is a huge part of the drug cartel's income.</span>** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">William Booth “Cartels Face An Economic Battle” Washington Post, October 7, 2009. “More than 60… Drug Control Policy” </span>

<span style="line-height: 11.9pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stemming the cartel's cash flow is vital to defeating them.</span>** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 12px;">Elise Foley 8/26/ 2010 “Drug Cartels Carry Millions Over Border, Despite Increased Enforcement”. “Stemming the flow… be knocked off”</span>


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 


<span style="color: black;">Moral systems must be things that we can internally reason and will because if they are rules that are externally imposed on us, we can always question why we should follow those rules.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Christine Korsgaard. </span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> //The sources of normativity//. 1996.</span>
"Kant, as I...rather than another?"


<span style="font-weight: normal;">As rational agents we value the rationality in ourselves, and by seeing the same ability to reason in other people, we value them as ends as well, because not treating them as ends would deny the value of that rationality.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Thomas E. Hill (Professor of Philosophy @ University of North Carolina @ Chapel Hill)“Autonomy and Self-Respect” 1991.Cambridge University Press</span>
"Kant spent little...above all else"

VC: Maximizing Non Domination

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The fundamental basis of the state must involve consistency, because if states can act arbitrarily those rights become meaningless, and the state no longer fulfills its role as a fair arbitrator of rights conflicts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chambers (Department of Political Science @ the University of Toronto) “Who Shall Judge? Hobbes, Locke, and Kant on the Construction of Public Reason”</span> //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ethics & Global Politics </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>
"all law and...everyone wants it"

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greater arbitrary interference improves the government’s ability to constrain its citizens’ rationality and violate them as ends. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Philip Pettit (Professor of Politics and Human Values @ Princeton) “Republicanism: A theory of freedom and government” 2000</span>
"But the primary...and subordinate status"

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Domination destroys people’s ability to achieve their goals, denying their rationality and their innate right to freedom. LOVETT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Frank Lovett (Washington University in St. Louis) “Domination and Distributive Justice” //The Journal of Politics//2009</span>
"In addition to...themselves at all"


The state can interference with our lives, its arbitrary interference that is bad because it destroys our freedom, and our rationality.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cecile Laborde and John</span> **Maynor**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The Republican Contribution,” Published in //Republicanism and Political Theory//, New York: Blackwell, 2008.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Instead, Pettit argues...of the citizenry)."</span>


Contention One is that juveniles courts are arbitrary.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">a) Judge intervention to meet child’s needs leads to luck as the sole factor of juveniles fate,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barry C. Feld—1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota, J.D.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court” 1997 //The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology// </span>
"Quite apart from...or appelate checks"

b) Jury trials are comparatively better at assessment.
<span style="display: block;"> JANET E. AINSWORTH * Assistant Professor of Law, University of Puget Sound School of Law. B.A. Brandeis University, 1975; M.A. Yale University, 1977; J.D. Harvard Law School, 1980. RE-IMAGINING CHILDHOOD AND RECONSTRUCTING THE LEGAL ORDER: THE CASE FOR ABOLISHING THE JUVENILE COURT.
"Additionally the litigants...they might reveal"

AINSWORTH 2:
"Moreover, as a...and unclear manner"
</span>

c) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The age limits that juvenile courts rely upon are arbitrary. The Free dictionary writes</span>
<span style="display: block;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Juvenile+Law</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"In Wyoming a ...in juvenile court"</span></span>


==Negative== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">Moral systems must be things that we can internally reason and will because if they are rules that are externally imposed on us, we can always question why we should follow those rules.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Christine Korsgaard. </span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> //The sources of normativity//. 1996.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"Kant, as I...rather than another?"</span>

VC: Possible Consent

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Juveniles are incapable of full consent, their decisions based in impulse are not worthy of complete consent, since rational actors must act freely </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Deitch, Michele (Teaches criminal justice and juvenile justice policy at the LBJ School and at the Law School), et.al. (2009). From Time Out to Hard Time: Young Children in the Adult Criminal Justice System, Austin, TX: The University of Texas at Austin, LBJ School of Public Affairs </span>
"Harvard Medical School's...their own impulses"


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The environments by which juveniles develop in influence their behaviors </span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 8.0pt;">Elizabeth Scott [Professor of Law, Virginia Law School] and Laurence Steinberg [University Professor and Laura H. Carnell Professor of Psychology, Temple University, Director of the John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Adolescent Development and Juvenile Justice] University of Virginia School of Law, Blaming Youth No. 02-14, December 2002</span></span>
<span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">"Adolescent peer orientation...than are adults"</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; line-height: 115%;">There must be a mechanism for individuals to be able to distinguish right and wrong clearly, or else their moral judgment is impaired</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>

Scott 2:
"As we have...crime is difficult"



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]