[[toc]]
For aff cites - email Aditya Mukund at Aditya.Mukund13[at]bcp.org
For neg cites - email Debnil Sur at debnil.sur [at] gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
UT Longhorn Classic - Okinawa
==1AC - UT== 
__Contention 1: Times Have Changed__

Withdrawal from Okinawa recognizes US deployment on Okinawa, the imbalanced alliance, and violence against women as uniquely ingrained in gendered and securitized discourses. Our advocacy is a recognition and a solution.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kirk & Feffer 8</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The <span style="background-color: aqua;">power dynamics....</span></span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">accordingly."</span>


And, The US and Japan are in the midst of an alliance transformation, but Okinawan opposition to bases will sink the boat.


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayahshi 11/2</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"><<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704141104575587942224837482.html]]</span>></span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The twists...mid november"</span>**</span></span></span>


**And, Presence in Okinawa is the biggest obstacle in the alliance.**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">CRS 09</span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Okinawa as Focus....</span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.8px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">relocation plans by 2014."</span>**

**But ground troops aren<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t key to leadership <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> balanced alliance, Seventh fleet and Air Force solve deterrence.**
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span> </span>
**"<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04"</span>**


" <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Focusing narrowly...**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">East Asia."</span>


And, Policy which focuses on individual bases and privileges US security interests locks the alliance into the failing cold-war framework. Only a broad solution can fracture bureaucratic inertia and reshape the alliance.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jitsuro 8-9 "</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure, and the Future”)"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"> "In the raging currents,...will never end."</span>

Now is key for the case <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> new election provides opportunity for a reset.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foster and Kanak 9/15</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> "</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">Life rarely gives chances....America will benefit."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw the United States military presence from the Okinawa.</span>

**__Contention Two: Bilateral Relations__**

**__Scenario 1: East Asian Stability__**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alliance must respond to the Japanese desire for an equal role. Japan can rise within the alliance without aggressive expansion and bilateral diplomacy checks foreign worries and promotes stability.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.2px;">Rapp 04</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It appears....</span><span style="font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">U.S.-Japan security alliance. "</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.2px;">US <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Japan relations aid regional negotiations <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Proliferation Security Initiative proves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.2px;">Rapp 04</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Finally, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">as the United States....</span></span>regimes and institutions in the region"</span>

Japan is comparatively better than US unilateralism at creating Asian stability.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.84px;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span>“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, as the partnership deepens....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">security environment of Asia."</span>

A healthy cooperation prevents multiple nuclear wars <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Asia is the most likely hotspot.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Armitage et al. 2K </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px; line-height: 13px;">"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">Asia, in the throes of historic....foundation for the 21st century"</span>


__Scenario 2 is Democracy:__

On Okinawa base issues, Japan uses the federal executive, legislative, and judicial branches to subordinate individual and state rights, critically undermining democracy.

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.2px; line-height: 19px;">Mulgan 2K </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/713683781]]</span>, WBTA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 6px;">The domestic politics.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">base-related"</span>

The DPJ just brought Japan to a two party system but US troops will reverse progress

<span class="tagChar">Buruma 8-6</span> (Ian Buruma, Professor of Democracy and Human Rights at Bard College, 08-06-10 “Japan’s Unfinished Reformation”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/buruma40/English]]</span>)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Revolutions, it is often claimed, do not happen when people are desperate. They occur in times of rising expectations. Perhaps this is why they so often end in disappointment....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">efforts to strengthen its democracy"</span>

Strong Japanese democracy checks global democratic backslide.


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Auslin 10/5/10</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> "</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">At the other end of Asia...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">shape the 21st, as well."</span>


A strong alliance spreads democratic principles through Asia.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"> "Finally<span class="underline">, the alliance..</span>stability to the region"</span>



Multilateral democratic institution building makes existing efforts successful and ends violent failures. The alternative is nuclear war.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shaw 99</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">(Martin Shaw, IR Professor at Sussex, 11-9-99 “The unfinished global revolution: Intellectuals and the new politics of international relations.”)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"> "From these political fundamentals....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">relations and politics, are intertwined"</span>



Democracies don<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t fight each other <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> best for long term stability

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lynn- Jones </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">98</span></span>



"<span style="font-size: 13.2px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In addition to improving....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">democratic "zone of peace.""</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**Extinction**__ </span>




**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Diamond</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 19**__95__**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> This hardly exhausts...</span><span style="font-size: 13.2px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">prosperity can be built."</span>__</span>

===2AC Heg=== 


Collapse is inevitable – regional powers are filling in. 
Feffer 2009 [John, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus, “US Hegemony Slips into History,” Asia Times, September 12, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/KI12Ak01.html] 

The end of the Cold War … the Pax Americana of the Cold War period. 

Predominance spurs a Russia-China military alliance that ends in nuclear extinction 
Roberts 07 Senior Research Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, William E. Simon Chairin Political Economy, Center for Strategic and International Studies (Paul Craig“US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance,”http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts218.html) 
This week the Russian and Chinese militaries … Hitler’s. 

Heg causes war with Iran 
Layne 07 Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute 
(Chris, The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, , p. 76-77 
Iran Because of the strategy …assumptions are correct. 

4. Extinction 
Hirsch 06 Professor of Physics at the University of California 
(Jorge, [“Nuking Iran,” ZNet, April 10) 

Iran is likely to respond to … before anybody has prevailed. 

Heg cause prolif – multipolarity will solve it 
Weber et al 07 Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California-Berkeley (Steven with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February,) 
Axiom 3 is a story about the preferred strategies … almost entirely America's burden. 


Proliferation leads to nuclear war 
Utgoff 02, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the 
Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions” 
In sum, widespread proliferation is likely to … even whole nations. 

7. Refusing to allow the rise of new powers fails and ensures great power conflict – abandoning a strategy of hegemony would force smaller powers to take care of regional problems 
Schwarz and Layne 02 Editor of the Atlantic, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute [Benjamin and Christopher “A New Grand Strategy” Atlantic Monthly, January 1st] 

The rise of new great powers …with the new great powers. 

===2AC Consult Japan=== 

Perm: consult and do the plan.

<span class="tagChar">Loven <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">‘</span>8</span> Jennifer, Great expectations: Obama will have to deliver, Associated Press, 11/5/08 [[http://www.cleveland.com/nation/index.ssf/2008/11/great_expectations_obama_will.html]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He also showed himself … winning the presidency.</span>



Aff solves the terminal impact to consultation <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> we boost relations by balancing the alliance.
<span class="tagChar">Gurney 11/17</span> (Matt Gurney is an editor at the National Post, a Canadian national newspaper, and writes and speaks on military and geopolitical issues “Japan Gets Smart” <http://frontpagemag.com/2010/11/17/japan-gets-smart/>) 
<span class="underline">How do you say, “Never mind, … peace and security of this region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


Consultation is normal means through the bilateral Defense Policy Review Initiative and Security Consultative Committee. 

<span class="tagChar">CRS 09</span> Congressional Research Service Emma Chanlett-Avery, an Analyst in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade division of CRS and Weston S. Konishi Analyst in Asian Affairs, CRS. “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” 7-23-09
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bilateral Reviews of the Alliance </span><span class="underline">Concurrent with … crucial to implementing further security cooperation.</span>


Giving Japan veto power over US military actions constrains US airpower and leads to foot dragging in coordinated conflict response <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> kills relations. The case is a DA. 

<span class="tagChar">Tallis et al 98</span> (Ashley J. Tellis et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, sources of conflict in the 21st century, availible via the rand website @ rand.org. chapter 3, 1998) 

<span class="underline">Current political trends in Japan are … consequences for U.S. strategy in East Asia.</span>


Air power key to military effectiveness and deterring war with China which causes extinction
<span class="tagChar">Dunlap <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">‘</span>6</span> (Maj. Gen. Charles J. Dunlap, deputy judge advocate general of the Air Force, 9-2006, “America’s asymmetric advantage,” Armed Forces Journal, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/09/2009013) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So where does that leave us? </span><span class="underline">If we are smart, we will … **the very existence of the U.S. is at risk.**</span>



Empirically denied <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> party transition disrupted consultations and nothing happened.
Sheila A. Smith, Council on Foreign Relations Senior Fellow for Japan Studies. “President Obama's Asian Agenda” <http://www.cfr.org/publication/23303/president_obamas_asian_agenda.html>
<span class="underline">Japan's</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unprecedented </span><span class="underline">political transition …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the role in the policymaking process for Japan's powerful bureaucrats.</span>


Consultations now <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> plan not key.
Satoshi Ogawa, Yomiuri Shimbun Correspondent “Japan, U.S. to up talks on China threat / Rapid buildup of military main concern” 
<http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T101024002067.htm>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON--</span><span class="underline">**Japan and the United States …** "**talks on various levels as frequently as possible**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the sources said</span>. 

==1AC - Berkeley== 

===[[#_GoBack]]Contention 1: Times Have Changed=== 


Withdrawal from Okinawa recognizes US deployment on Okinawa, the imbalanced alliance, and violence against women as uniquely ingrained in gendered and securitized discourses. Our advocacy is a recognition and a solution. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirk & Feffer 8</span></span> [Gwyn Kirk, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist. John Feffer, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of World Policy Journal. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "Gender And U.S. Bases in Asia Pacific", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific] 

<span class="underline0">The power dynamics of militarism … them and to act</span> accordingly. 

US presence forces Kan to ignore local opposition – approval is plummeting and the ruling party is splitting – currently, leadership is impossible. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hayashi 12/2</span></span> (Yuka Hayashi, Writer for Wall Street Journal. “Japan's Kan Struggles to Keep Grip on Power” 12/2/10 <http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703377504575650482858539498.html>) 

TOKYO—Japanese Prime Minister Naoto <span class="underline0">… **and heed their voices seriously.**</span>" 


The US and Japan are in the midst of an alliance transformation, but Okinawan opposition to bases will sink the boat. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hayahshi 11/2</span></span> (Yuka Hayashi, Staff Writer, Wall Street Journal “Okinawa Vote Complicates U.S.-Japan Ties” <http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704141104575587942224837482.html> 

NAHA, Japan—<span class="underline0">**The twists and …**</span> visit to Japan in mid-November. 

Presence in Okinawa is the biggest obstacle in the alliance. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">CRS 09 </span></span>Congressional Research Service Emma Chanlett-Avery, an Analyst in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade division of CRS and Weston S. Konishi Analyst in Asian Affairs, CRS. “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” 7-23-09 

Okinawa as Focus of Realignment Efforts <span class="underline0">The reduction …</span> Guam relocation plans by 2014. 

But ground troops aren’t key to leadership – balanced alliance, Seventh fleet and Air Force solve deterrence. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rapp 04</span></span> (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04) 

Focusing narrowly on East Asia, …<span class="underline0"> the U.S. in East Asia.</span>

Current scholarship and media mischaracterizes the Futenma dispute – troop reduction wouldn’t hurt the alliance, it would balance it. Japanese resentment against an imbalanced alliance makes controversy inevitable – they want us to leave. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Berkofsky and Hagstrom, PhD’s 10</span></span> (Axel Berkofsky (PhD in Japanese Studies/Political Science, Hamburg University) is Senior Associate Research Fellow, Istituto per gli Studi di Politica Internazionale (ISPI) Milan, Italy and Gianni Mazzocchi Fellow at the University of Pavia, Italy. AND Linus Hagström (PhD in Political Science, Stockholm University) is Associate Professor of Political Science and Senior Research Fellow at the Swedish Institute of International Affairs. He is also Research Fellow at the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities supported by a grant from the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. “Futenma and the Mobilisation of Bias: An Alternative Perspective on the Japan–US Alliance” <http://www.ispionline.it/it/documents/WP38_2010%20.pdf> 

Introduction This article sets out … is an entirely different matter. 


Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw the United States military bases and troops from Okinawa. 

===**Contention two is balanced relations**=== 


Japan can rise within the alliance – new generation of diplomats guarantee foreign diplomacy will continue despite domestic considerations 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cronin et al. 10/27</span></span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (</span></span>Patrick M. Cronin, senior vice president and director of studies at Center for Strategic and International Studies. Served as director of research and studies at the U.S. Institute of Peace. Was head of Asian studies, director of research, and deputy director of the National Defense University's Institute for National Strategic Studies. AND Daniel M. Kliman, <span style="color: black;">Fellow at the Center for a New American Security</span> B.A. from Stanford, Fulbright Fellow at Kyoto University in Japan, Ph.D. at Princeton. Worked for Institute for Defense Analyses in D.C., the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, and the Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo. Served in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. AND Abraham M. Denmark Fellow with the Center for a New American Security. Was Country Director for China Affairs in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance” 2010 <http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf> 


<span class="underline0">The Mutual Security Treaty’s golden …</span> __to realize the alliance’s potential__. 


US – Japan relations aid regional negotiations – Proliferation Security Initiative proves. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rapp 04</span></span> (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04) 

Finally, <span class="underline0">as the United States … and institutions in the region. </span>



Japan is comparatively better than US unilateralism at creating Asian stability. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rapp 04</span></span> (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04) 

Finally, as the partnership deepens, <span class="underline0">…</span> future security environment of Asia. 

A healthy cooperation prevents multiple nuclear wars – Asia is the most likely hotspot. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Armitage et al. 2K (</span></span>Richard L. Armitage Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. 2k, fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm) 

Asia, in the throes of historic … foundation for the 21st century. 


===Scenario 2 is Democracy:=== 


On Okinawa base issues, Japan uses the federal executive, legislative, and judicial branches to subordinate individual and state rights, critically undermining democracy. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mulgan 2K</span></span> Aurelia Mulgan, PhD in Japanese Politics, Australia National University, 2K “Managing the US Base Issue in Okinawa: A Test for Japanese Democracy” http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/713683781, WBTA 

The domestic politics of US …<span class="underline0"> local residents on base-related issues. </span>

The DPJ just brought Japan to a two party system but US troops will reverse progress 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Buruma 8-6</span></span> (Ian Buruma, Professor of Democracy and Human Rights at Bard College, 08-06-10 “Japan’s Unfinished Reformation” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/buruma40/English) 

TOKYO – Revolutions, it is often …<span class="underline0"> efforts to strengthen its democracy. </span>

Strong Japanese democracy checks global democratic backslide. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin 10/5/10</span></span> (Michael Auslin is director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “National Review: The Future Of Asian Democracies” <http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130345782>) 

At the other end of Asia, <span class="underline0">… shape the 21st, as well. </span>


A strong alliance spreads democratic principles through Asia. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rapp 04</span></span> (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04) 

Finally<span class="underline0">, the alliance can provide … lasting stability to the region</span>. 

Multilateral democratic institution building makes existing efforts successful and ends violent failures. The alternative is nuclear war. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shaw 99</span></span> (Martin Shaw, IR Professor at Sussex, 11-9-99 “The unfinished global revolution: Intellectuals and the new politics of international relations.”) 

<span class="underline0">From these political fundamentals, strategic …</span>relations and politics, are intertwined. 

Democracies don’t fight each other – best for long term stability 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lynn- Jones ’98</span></span> **[**Sean, Center for Science and International Affairs, <span class="citenon-boldChar">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harvard University</span>__**</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/pub%20lication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html|http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/pub lication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html]]</span>] 

__In addition to improving the … the democratic "zone of peace."__


**Extinction**

**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Diamond</span>__** 19**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">95</span>__** [Larry, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”, December, http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html] 

This hardly exhausts the lists … and prosperity <span class="underline0">can be built</span>. 

Prefer the case – disjunctive impacts are exponentially more probable than the conjunctive disad scenarios. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yudkowsky ‘6</span></span> (Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, Available Online at <http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf>) 

Overly detailed reassurances can also … an awkward and unpoetic-sounding prophecy 




===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_GoBack]]</span>=== 
=Negative= 
==MIB PIC== 
===__**1NC:**__=== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should withdraw the 2nd Infantry Division, the 19th Expeditionary Sustainment Command, the 1st Signal Brigade, the 35th Air Defense Artillery Brigade, the 65th Medical Brigade, the S.T.B., the Korean Service Corps Battalion, the UNC Security Battalion, the 129th Medical Detachment, the Korea Field Office, the 175th Financial Management Center, the A.L.E., the Joint U.S. Military Affairs Group, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Far East District, the Eighth United States Army Band, the Eighth United States Army Noncommissioned Officers Academy, all United States Navy forces, all United States Air Force forces, and all United States Marine Corps forces from the Republic of Korea.

**War with North Korea is inevitable this year – nationalistic impulses prove**
**Manasan 10** – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html, Crowe)

While some experts believe tensions on the Korean Peninsula ... I have no doubt that __North Korea would lose it.”__


**North Korean first strike is biological and chemical**
**Kosu News 7/29** (“U.S. Assesses Options In Possible North Korea Conflict,” 7-29-2010, http://kosu.org/2010/07/us-assesses-options-in-possible-north-korea-conflict/)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">War might begin with North Korea... </span>had hit Seoul__,” Green says.


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. Military Intelligence Brigade key to counterbattery first strike</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Cummings 4 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">) Calum</span>
The __strength of the ROK defense structure...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">missions from USFK to ROK responsibility.</span>


Bioweapons spread globally within six weeks – greater risk than nuclear weapons
<span class="tagChar">Levy 7</span> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]</span>, JMP)

Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and large quantities can be developed within days. </span>


**Extinction**
**Ochs 2** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

__Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically__ ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This concept should be promoted to the center of national debate..</span>

=Specific Rounds= 
==USC== 
See Bellarmine Debnil Sur/Naman Trivedi
==UT== 
Round 2 v. Dulles CZ

Affirmative was Critical TNW's with Nuclear Rhetoric, Racism, and Deterrence Bad
1NC was T - Presence, Deterrence DA, Case (Solvency, Util, Predictions, Calculations)
2NR was Deterrence, Case

Round 4 v. Lake Travis PB
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Affirmative was South Korea with Trafficking, China, North Korea Relations</span>
1NC was MIB PIC, Deterrence DA, South Korea Econ DA, Case
2NR was MIB Pic, SK Econ DA, Deterrence DA, Case

Round 5 v. St. Mark's JM
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Affirmative was subst. withdrawal from South Korea with Korean War, Prolif, and China</span>
1NC was MIB PIC, Deterrence DA, South Korea Econ DA, START Good, Case
2NR was MIB PIC, Deterrence DA, Case

==Golden Desert== 
Round 2 vs. Desert Vista CP
1AC: Japan Gender
1NC: Okinawa Identity Politics K, Senkakus DA, Case (Util, Predictions, Calculations)
2NR: DA, Case

Round 4 vs. Meadows LR
1AC: South Korea (War, Regionalism)
1NC: Joint Military Exercises CP, Deterrence DA, War, Regionalism
2NR: CP, DA, Case

Round 6 v. Palo Alto DL
1AC: Japan Gender
1NC: See Round 2
2NR: See Round 2

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Berkeley**</span>== 
Round 1 vs. Little Rock Central RS
1AC: War on Terror (Discourse)
1NC: Framework, SKFTA Good, Case (Util)
2NR: FW, Case, SKFTA

Round 3 vs. Damien FG
1AC: Marines (Alliance, Deterrence)
1NC: T - Substantial, Senkakus DA, SKFTA Good, Engagement CP, Case
2NR: CP, Case, SKFTA

Round 6 vs. Heritage Hall HS
1AC: BMD (China First Use, Modernization, Europe)
1NC: T - Substantial, Advantage CP, SKFTA, Case
2NR: CP/SKFTA