[[toc]]
=[[#September-October]]September-October= 
==[[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative== 
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Since nuclear weapons disregard individual agency and negative rights </span>//] I affirm [//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">that states ought not possess nuclear weapons</span>//]. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> From Merriam-Webster, “ought” expresses obligation. </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">An obligation is something that requires a course of action based on morality.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Prefer this definition, as Merriam-Webster's is a reference book to common terminology, meaning that this is a widely used definition.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Second, this definition is most contextually appropriate, as we use “ought” to express our obligations in a given situation, Merriam-Webster’s example for this use is “[we] ought to pay our debts”. In the resolutional context of potentially thousands of lives saved or lost it is absurd to talk about acts as merely "desirable" or "advisable", which we would only use in respect to self-regarding actions, not in instances of international relations. . Third, permissibility (as defined as allowable) is not sufficient to negate or affirm, as there is no word in the resolution that implies permissibility, or suggests the Aff advocacy must defend the **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__processes__</span>** of disarmament, we are dealing with a question morality.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">Obligation is defined as: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">something (as a formal contract, a promise, or the demands of conscience or custom) that obligates one to a course of action. </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">“Not” negates “ought”. </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Meaning, first, since the negative has the textual burden of proving the converse of the resolution, the Negative burden is to prove that states ought to possess nuclear weapons. Second, as ought implies a question of moral obligation, you affirm if I prove nuclear weapons morally repugnant.. Third, the negation of ought is where you develop the resolution criteria for affirmation, that we morally are obligated to not possesses nuclear weapons.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">I value morality, as implied by the evaluative term "ought". Morality as a "good" is determined by human inclinations, however morality necessitates a inherent value for humanity, and human agency, in that our assigning of a "positive" evaluation is a reference derived from ourselves, which we deem to be good.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Korsgaard explains:  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">"</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Were it not for our desires and inclinations, we would not find__</span>** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">their</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__objects good__</span>**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">Kant saw that</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__we take things to be important because they are important to__ </span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">us</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;"> - and he concluded that</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__we must therefore take ourselves to be important__</span>**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">In this way,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the value of humanity itself is implicit in every human choice__</span>**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">If normative skepticism is to be avoided - if there is any such thing as a reason for action - then</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__humanity as the source of all reasons and values must be valued for its own sake__</span>**.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">16"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Since the resolution is a question of morality, it is assigning an immediate value to Humanity. Moral evaluation, stem from individual identity and agency. Violation of this agency leads to a state where the agent is, from a moral sense, dead, insofar as they have been stripped of identification with the world outside the self. In light of morality as a system of obligations, we are thus obligated to not violate individual value through actions that seek to subvert or devalue their human worth.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Korsgaard Two explains:  </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">It is the conceptions of ourselves that are most important to us that give rise to unconditional obligations.</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__For to violate them is to lose your integrity and so your identity, and no longer to be who you are. That is, it is no longer to be able to think of yourself under the description under which you value yourself and find your life worth living and your actions worth undertaking. That is to be for all practical purposes dead or worse than dead. When an action cannot be performed without loss of some fundamental part of one’s identity, and an agent would rather be dead, then the obligation not to do it is unconditional and complete.__</span>** </span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">If reasons arise from reflective endorsement, then obligation arises from reflective </span>//<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">rejection.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Korsgaard continues:  </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 11.5pt;">But in another sense it is not empty at all. What we have established is this. The reflective structure of human consciousness requires that you identify yourself with some law or principle that will govern your choices.<span class="Underline"> </span></span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Thus, it is immoral to perform any action that will result in the loss of an individual's identity, in that we would fail our unconditional obligation to allow individual moral evaluation. First, individuals have differing sets of moral obligations, but interference with another individual in pursuing their obligations or convictions is a violation of a universal obligation to respect negative rights. Second, when a violation of identity occurs, we lose the ability to identify with a law or principle, and we can no longer be a rational actor in that we have no method of answering questions of the desirability of these principles. Third, a world where individual agency is routinely violated is one where the violators are numerous, and having disregarded moral tenants, as well as human worth, are no longer adherent to morality or rationality. This means that if I can prove that Nuclear weapons create this state of affairs, you affirm as the resolution is asking a question of morality. A state of irrationality will lead to a world in which moral evaluation is impossible, and humanity is perpetually devalued. Thus, the negative burden is to prove that nuclear weapons do not violate agency, or disregard individual value.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">My standard is thus persevering individual agency for the follow reasons:  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Agency is not simply autonomy, but also a respect for the individual as a entity in and of themselves, not dependant on extant entities.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">First, individual agency is inherently tied to conceptions of self, and the violation of agency is a violation of conception of self in that interfering with the agency, physically or psychologically tamper with an individual's identity.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Second, Through individual evaluation we assign desirability to concepts, without Agency, there is no way of evaluating the good of these, leading to a incoherent state of being.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Third, the nature of moral violations leads to the violator also losing value to their actions, and preventing this from happening is paramount to upholding morality, otherwise society would quickly lose a sense of moral direction.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Contention one: Nuclear Deterrence subverts human worth, and uses the citizens as a means to an end.  </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The policies states seek when deploying nuclear weapons is one of deterrence, to communicate a threat that will be hopefully strong enough to discourage hostile action to the receiver. However, this communication of threat, and the policy of nuclear deterrence holds individuals hostage, to employ control on their leaders, using them as a means to an end, and targeting them with physical harm if their leaders to do not meet the desired behavior of the threatener  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">Lee explains:  </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;">Involved in</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> **__the policy of nuclear deterrence__** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;">but directly to the moral status of the activity that involves having those intentions. This </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">is an activity of threatening,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> but threatening of a special kind. **__The threat is largely against innocent third parties, persons who would not be responsible for the actions prompting the nuclear retaliation.__** **__The persons whose behavior the threat seeks to control, the opponent's military and political leaders, are__**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;"> for the most part</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> **__not the persons on whom harm would be visited should the threat be carried out. This kind of threat may be referred to as a third-party threat. The making of a third-party threat is the holding of hostages, and nuclear deterrence__**.  </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Lee Continues:  </span></span>__**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">It is often noted that nuclear deterrence is a policy of holding hostage the population of one's opponent to the good behavior of its leaders</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 200%;">but the moral implications of this have not always been fully appreciated.9</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__What is morally wrong with hostage holding? The basis of__ </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 200%;">the non-consequentialist</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> objection to hostage holding can be seen in the following terms. Hostages are persons threatened with harm without their consent in order to control the behavior of some other person or group. First, central to the moral wrongness of hostage holding is that the persons threatened are not the same as the persons whose behavior the threatener seeks to control</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 200%;">(i.e., the threat is a third-party threat).</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> **__Those threatened are innocent in the sense that they generally have no control over, nor responsibility for, the behavior of the person's the nuclear armed state seeks to control.__** </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">The lack of consent or responsibility to the reason nuclear threat is being applied subverts human agency in that we treat the citizens of a nation as an extension of their leaders' will, and use them as a means to control their leaders. Nuclear weapons also, in the event of being fired, will harm individuals in the name of global power politics, which is not a valid moral excuse. Thus, states possessing nuclear weapons are morally equitable to hostage holders, except on a macro-scale, and committing violations of agency to millions. Thus, nuclear weapons violate obligations to individual conceptions of self, and morality, and you affirm.  </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention Two: Nuclear weapons morally corrupt those who deploy them. </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Haare and Joynt discuss the moral situation of those who carry out nuclear action: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">"</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; line-height: 115%;">Those men had undoubtedly formed the conditional intention, when they entered the aircraft, to drop the bombs. Their mental health was</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">i</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">n a sense</span>****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; line-height: 115%;">sacrificed to the general welfare.... One is forced to weigh the wrong to them against the benefits of a deterrence policy in general." </span>__**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The employment of nuclear weapons sacrifices the moral agency of those maintaining, operating and otherwise maintaining nuclear weapons. This scope of violations a deterrence policy is not just limited to those who work with the weapons, but also those who decide the policy, those who are part of the leadership structure, in that this policy requires them to also sacrifice their moral status and collaborate with nuclear power politics, and join in culpability for the harms of nuclear deterrence and warfare.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention 3: Nuclear deterrence track record is insufficient, and gambling with lives subverts human worth.  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Goodin explains the problems with the arguments for the efficacy of nuclear deterrence:  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">Certainly</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> **__we have no solid objective statistics, based on frequency counts or such like__**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">The balance of terror has kept the peace for the past thirty-five years, to be sure</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">. **__But thirty-five years is__** just **__too short a run on which to base our probability judgments, given the unacceptability of even very small probabilities of such a very great horror. Besides, nuclear war is__** **__just not the sort of thing whose probabilities we dare to estimate by trial-and-error procedures-the first error may well mark the learner's own end__**.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Goodin continues:  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Nor__</span>**, <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;">finally,</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__do we have any__</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;">particularly</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__good reason to place any__</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 200%;">great</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__faith in subjective probability estimates. Of course, we can always bully people into stating their "best guess" as to the chances of anything occurring; we can even bully them into rendering those probability estimates consistent. But when such estimates are as groundless as those concerning the chances of nuclear deterrence collapsing into nuclear war are, we should not set any great store by them.__ </span>**</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 200%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 35.45pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The statistical arguments behind nuclear deterrence are not by a long shot an end all be all proof of nuclear deterrence, the best data algamation can't correct for a very poor data pool. Placing human lives and the consequences of nuclear war into a statistic, and gambling with uncertain numbers on whether deterrence will work completely undermines the negative right of people to not be harmed, nuke deterrence by definition puts them at stake. Therefore, in order to do what is moral and to avoid this staking of human lives, I urge an affirmative ballot.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span></span>

=Negative= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">I negate [Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons.] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Definitions </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Ought: Used to express duty or a moral obligation.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Possess: To have as belonging to one.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Nuclear Weapons:</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">an</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">explosive</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">device</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">whose</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">destructive</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">potential</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">derives</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">from</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">the release</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">of</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">energy</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">that</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">accompanies</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">the</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">splitting</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">or</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">combining</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">of atomic</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">nuclei.</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Because ought implies moral obligation my value is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Morality</span>**: I define morality as the <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">concern with the distinction between good and evil or right and wrong; </span></span>Thus in the negative world morality is based off of consequentialism of whether actions are right or wrong based off the consequences they produce. We prefer a consequentialism standard because the resolution specifically requires a moral obligation in our use of nuclear weapons. Thus, my standard is consequentialism. The best way to maximize consequentialism in this context is to minimize war. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Minimizing war allows for good consequences for three reasons:  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt 0.75in; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; tab-stops: list .75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">1) There are less tensions between states.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt 0.75in; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; tab-stops: list .75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">2) Avoid harm for innocents  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt 0.75in; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; tab-stops: list .75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">3) Less money is spent for wartime effort.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">This clearly best due to the fact that without nuclear weapons in the Aff world, war is still possible, even if a conventional one, which still has the potential to kill thousands, if not millions. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">C1: Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons actually increase their deterrence.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Kenneth **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Waltz</span>** says: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">“__With conventional weapons a status quo country must ask itself how much power it must harness to its policy in order to dissuade an especially aggressive state from striking. Countries willing to run high risks are hard to dissuade. The varied qualities of governments and the temperaments of leaders have to be carefully weighed. In a nuclear world, any state will be deterred by another state’s second-strike forces. One need not become preoccupied with the characteristics of the state that is to be deterred or scrutinize its leaders.”__ </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear Myths and Political Realities Author(s): Kenneth N. Waltz. Source: The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3 (Sep., 1990), pp. 731-745 Published by: American Political Science Association Stable URL:<span style="color: #1d1ece;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1962764]]</span></span></span>// <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">In addition, </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons Author(s): Scott D. </span></span>//**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Sagan</span></span>//</span>**//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> Source: International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107 Published by: The MIT Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2539178 Accessed: 16/08/2010 14:14</span></span>//<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">"Nuclear weapons have been given a bad name, because catastrophic outcomes of nuclear exchanges are easy to imagine, leaders of states will shrink in horror from initiating them. With nuclear weapons, stability and peace rest on easy calculations of what one country can do to another</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">. __Anyone-political leader__ or man in the street-</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">can see that catastrophe lurks if events spiral out of control and nuclear warheads begin to fly.8 Given that the costs of nuclear war is so high, even a small risk of war can deter. Becau</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">se "__a nation will be deterred from attacking even if it believes that there is only a possibility that its adversary will retaliate," "the probability of major war among states having nuclear weapons approaches zero.__"9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">If this is true, then</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> __the spread of nuclear weapons should have very positive consequences: Nuclear weapons,__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">responsibly used</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">,</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> make wars hard to start. Nations that have nuclear weapons have strong incentives to use them responsibly. These statements hold true for small as for big nuclear powers.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> __Because they do, the measured spread of nuclear weapons is more to be welcomed than feared. 10__ </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">The impact is this: Nuclear weapons are moral because they are minimizing the amount of suffering for innocents. Leaders know that starting a nuclear war would be brutal. Hence, they have their weapons to use, but never use them, because they know that in the long run their situation will be worsened. Nuclear weapons are a defense mechanism; just as if a family keeps a gun in their home for protection. They aren’t the ones initiating the violence, but they would only use it in the worst case scenario of someone breaking into their house. However, when they show the gun to the robber it’s likely that he will run away, because his own life has more worth than the possessions he wants to steal. The same scenario applies with nuclear weapons. Leaders of countries are aware of the damage that nuclear weapons can cause, but they don’t use them because they are fearful for the lives of their civilians. Thus, diplomacy is increased, because states don’t want to use their nuclear weapons.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">C2: <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Horizontal proliferation of</span></span> <span class="yshortcuts"><span style="color: #366388;">nuclear weapons</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">stabilizes the international system. </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">To illustrate this, David **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Karl</span>**[[#_ftnref1]][[http://us.mg3.mail.yahoo.com/dc/launch?.gx=1&.rand=5vhbsr891g5cp#_ftn1#_ftn1|[1]]] writes: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Proliferation optimists hold generally reassuring views of the effects of </span><span class="yshortcuts"><span style="color: #366388; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">nuclear proliferation</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> on regional stability. They contend </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">that the traditional utilitarian relationship between military force and political behavior by states was turned fundamentally on its head by the development of nuclear weapons.</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Rooted in Gaullist conceptions of deterrence strategy and in existential deterrence thinking, proliferation optimism is based on the premise that</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">states behave with robust circumspection when confronted with even a modicum of nuclear risk. Fearful of the prospect of nuclear engagement, states are dissuaded from acts that raise this risk</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">. </span><span class="yshortcuts"><span style="color: #366388; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth Waltz</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, for example, argues that "the presence of nuclear weapons makes states exceedingly cautious. . . .Why fight if you can't win much and might lose everything?"</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Since war between nuclear-armed adversaries involves the possibility of reciprocal destruction, even annihilation, the prospects for a stable deterrent relationship between them-and by extension, within an international system composed of numerous </span>__<span class="yshortcuts">__<span style="color: #366388; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">nuclear powers</span>__</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">are alleged to be much greater than in a nonnuclear world.</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Waltz asserts that "whatever the number of nuclear states, a nuclear world is tolerable if those states are able to send convincing deterrent messages: It is useless to attempt to conquer because you will be severely punished."</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Impact: Attacking another’s countries does not make sense to the initiating country, because it would not protect their own long-term interests. Hence, they don’t do it. Leaders of countries are able to think rationally about the long term effects that starting a nuclear war can have on their country.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">For these reasons I negate. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Nationalism is a good thing because it encourages leaders to protect their own national interest meaning they will not initiate nuclear warfare, because they know in the long run the consequences will not be good for their country.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';"> </span></span>
* <span style="0in margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-list: l1 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">It’s a good thing to show support  </span></span>
* <span style="0in margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-list: l1 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;"><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">That’s how we strengthen our country.  </span></span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]