Hey if you want cites for anything I've run, post Sep-Oct email me, at Cherymenthol [@] gmail [dot] com
I'll be more than happy to respond.[[#htmldiff1]]
[[toc]]

=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Pinnacle Nucflash=== 


Ought is desirability. 

The standard is maximizing rights, because the only theory that protects human value is consequentialism, Cummiskey explains,
Kantian Consequentialism,. David Cummiskey. Ethics 100 (April 1990), University of Chicago. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810|__http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810__]]

The neo-Kantian strategy is clear.... deontological normative theory.”

And, Debating through a policymaking lens is the most educational approach to debate, Straight and Wallace write, 
The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making. L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University]. Debaters Research Guide. 2007

“The certainly all relevant.... used to make decisions.”

Contention one is inherency: The U.S. is done with a nuclear world, recent steps, such as publishing the exact number of warheads, show a true intent to disarm, the gears are in motion, it is time for action [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/profile/julianborger|Julian Borger]] and [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/profile/andrewclark|Andrew Clark]], explain 
1 [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/profile/julianborger|__Julian Borger__]] and [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/profile/andrewclark|__Andrew Clark__]] in New York, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/theguardian|__The Guardian__]], US shows its nuclear hand in bid to show sincerity on arms’ Tuesday 4 May 2010, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/may/03/iran-ahmadinejad-us-nuclear-threats|__http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/may/03/iran-ahmadinejad-us-nuclear-threats__]]

“The US yesterday.... for further cuts.’”

Contention two are the advantages, 

1st is Hege, Denuclearization supports US hegemony, by putting us ahead of the competition, and preventing nuclear war from evolving from conflict, because when it comes to conventional warfare U.S. is the best, Harold Brown explains
Brown, Harold. [CSIS counselor and trustee and served as secretary of defense from 1977 to 1981.] New Nuclear Realities. The Washington Quarterly, pp. 7-22. . Winter 07-08.

“If, by some miracle.... would not appear”

And, U.S. PRIMACY IS CRITICAL TO RESOLVE GLOBAL PROBLEMS 
Stephen Walt, Harvard JFK School of Government, 2002 (NAVAL WAR COLLEGE REVIEW, Spring, [[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2002/spring/art1-sp2.htm|__http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2002/spring/art1-sp2.htm__]]) 

“Thus, anyone who ... and good deeds.’” 

PRIMACY ENABLES THE U.S. TO RESOLVE GLOBAL CRISES,Which is key to protection of rights. 

Stephen Walt, Harvard JFK School of Government, 2002 (NAVAL WAR COLLEGE REVIEW, Spring, [[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2002/spring/art1-sp2.htm|__http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2002/spring/art1-sp2.htm__]]) 

“Yet primacy also.... power to decline.”

Contention three is Solvency, The advocacy ensures nuclear states stop proliferating and nations that want to stop, Nuclear States, will not be a problem because certain countries already support disarmament, and as long as these nations disarm, the justifications for proliferation will cease to exist and they to will disarm, Ivo Daalder and Jan Lodal further
Daalder, Ivo and Lodal, Jan. The Logic of Zero Toward a World Without Nuclear Weapons; Foreign Affairs; Ivo Daalder is a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. Jan Lodal is immediate past President of the Atlantic Council of the United States and a former senior Defense Department and White House official in the administrations of Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Bill Clinton. November/December 2008.

“The final diplomatic...nuclear aspirant accept.” 

Theory preempts

Real World
Parametrics
Literature
AFF Choice


===Dirty Bomb=== 

Oxford English Dictionary defines ought as a moral obligation.


And, questions of proper Ontology always come first - it’s the starting point and underlining for all political considerations, Dillon ‘99
Dillon, Prof of Politics- University of Lancaster, 99 [Michael, Moral Spaces p. 97-98]

"Heirs to all this.... of decision making."

The standard is respecting the equality of all members in the biotic community, as only through respecting our harmony with nature can we understand our ontology and achieve morality,

1st, The environment and humanity are components of larger order, an order that must be respected in order to understand our ontology as well as give due weigh to notions of equity, Humphrey ‘02

"The above idea... change external nature"

Furthermore, humans and all members of the biotic community are physically the same. We all are created from the same matter, we all have the exact same basis, atomic particles. Thus by creation we are equal. And any theory that advocates the promotion of equality, which includes both deontological and utilitarian positions, must promote the equality of nature and man. 

2nd, regardless of concepts of equality, we also must include the environment into as not doing so denies there inherent value, and thus disrespects them, doing this justifies excluding humans from moral judgments of equality, Glasser ‘96

Harold Glasser, 1996, Naess’s Deep Ecology Approach and Enviornmental Policy in Philosophical Dialogues, p. 423


"in order to.... deemed morally offensive."


Furthermore, concepts of morality as is are flawed, excluding things based on species justifies the moral exclusion of infants, the mentality “ill”, and disabled system, which means that they moral system can’t function and is evil, Callicot ‘93

J. Baird Callicott, Professor of Philosophy, “Introduction” in “Environmental Philosophy: From Animal Rights to Radical Ecology,” edited by Michael Zimmerman, pg. 4) 


"Not deliberately responding..... ouf of the senile."


And this is evident in the world around us, as all environmental problems, and the inability to solve them, is directly related this humanist mentality, Belshaw '01
Christopher Belshaw, Arts Staff Tutor at the Open University, 2001, Environmental philosophy: Reason, Nature and Human Concern, p. 181

"The fundamentally wrong-headed.... of human life."


Thus I contend that Nuclear Weapons, Harm and do not respect the biotic community,

Subpoint A is Possession, creation, and aggregation of nuclear materials and weapons.

First, humans must only take what is needed for there bare survival from society, i.e. food, water, shelter, any more immediately disrespects that environment, Zimmerman ‘91

Michael E. Zimmerman, professor oh philosophy at Tulane University, 1991, Deep Ecology, Ecoactivism, and Human Evolution, ReVision, Vo. 24, No. 4, p.41


"In view of.... vital material needs."


But besides that, the production of nuclear arms, i.e. the enrichment process, uranium mining, factory building etc, release huge amounts of pollutants that are essentially humans spitting on nature, Heller 2k

Heller, David. The Effects of Nuclear Weapons; Friends of the Earth; Global Chair of Latham & Watkins' Finance Department. 2000.



"Moreover the ongoing.... of the environment."


Furthermore, the tests that must be done to ensure that the weapons function are similarly devastating to the environment, but if the NC tries to dodge these harms he can never claim solvency with deterrence as he needs functional weapons to deter, and as technology and materials decay over time, testing is needed to remain a credible threat, i.e. if all of our ICBMs decayed we couldn’t deter people because we wouldn’t be able to launch our weapons.

Subpoint B is the possession and storage of nuclear arms

Nuclear weapons have significant impacts on the environment, through there age and decay, which can not be prevented without causing other harms, Heller 2k
Heller, David. The Effects of Nuclear Weapons; Friends of the Earth; Global Chair of Latham & Watkins' Finance Department. 2000.

"In Russian nuclear...East Germany and Australia."





Subpoint A is the use of nuclear weapons, Concepts of deterrence rely on credible threats, meaning that in order to work the deterrer must eventually use the threat, as the longer they don’t use execute the threat, the less likely the challenger believes they will, until, they do what they are being threatened against, be it proliferate or launch a nuclear weapon, thus deterrence always leads to nuclear launches, be them retaliatory or to ward of a threat. Raja Mohan

The Tragedy of Nuclear Deterrence, C. Raja Mohan, Institute of Defence Studies and Analysis, New Delhi Social Scientist, Vol. 14, No. 4 (Apr., 1986), pp. 3-19, Social Scientist,[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3517177|__http://www.jstor.org/stable/3517177__]]


"Although it is... unlikely to work."


The effect of multiple nuclear weapons, is huge, compromising the survival, and in cases killing certain species, Grover ’85

Biological Effects of Nuclear War II: Impact on the Biosphere Herbert D. Grover, Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Biology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131. He currently chairs an ad hoc committee on nuclear war for the Ecological Society of America and has contributed to several studies of the environmental effects of nuclear war, including the SCOPE-ENUWAR project and Mark A. Harwell, Associate Director of the Ecosystems Research Center, Cornell University. He led the biological analyses of the SCOPE-ENUWAR project, BioScience, Vol. 35, No. 9, After Nuclear War (Oct., 1985), pp. 576-583 Published by: University of California Press on behalf of the American Institute of Biological Sciences [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1309966|__http://www.jstor.org/stable/1309966__]]


"As several studies.... to smaller-scale disturbances."



===Empty Quiver=== 


<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Ought = Moral Obligation</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Pre-req to Desirability/Advisability</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">States are moral agents</span>

<span style="font: 11.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;">Intentions are actions, as what separates an action from an omission is the intention to perform it, meaning we evaluate intentions and actions on the same plane as </span>what we intend determines the rightness or wrongness of an action, Garfield</span>

<span style="color: #333233; font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">[Garfield, Jay L. “Buddhist Ethics.” Smith College. The University of Melbourne Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies. <span style="font: 8.0px 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.smith.edu/philosophy/documents/BMT.pdf|__http://www.smith.edu/philosophy/documents/BMT.pdf__]]</span></span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“Our views matter....intend to do”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Morality demands an inviolable status for human beings because we are moral equals, placing purposes and people into a hierarchy violates this inviolability, and thus morality. Mack </span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Mack, Eric. (Associate professor of philosophy at Tulane University.) “ In Defense of 'Unbridled' Freedom of Contract.” American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 40, No. 1 (Jan., 1981), pp. 1-15 Published by: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc. Jstor</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“The moral Philosophical.... one’s own purposes”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Morality is Binary</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Standard is respecting individuals as inviolable</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">insofar as Persons are inviolable, more violations doesn’t mean people are less inviolable if morality doesn’t condone violations, Kamm</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">FM Kamm is Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy, Kennedy School Non-consequentialism, the person as an end-in-itself, and the significance of status.”, Philosophy and Public Affairs, “ p. 390 JSTOR]</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“Suppose that there.... not in others”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Consequentialism is circular</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons doesn’t not respect individuals as en inviolable, </span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">The mere possession of nuclear weapons is violent because it holds masses of innocent civilians hostage to a conditional threat of nuclear annihilation, Shaw</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">(William H. Shaw, “Nuclear Deterrence and Deontology,” Ethics, Vol. 94, Num. 2, 1984)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“We are in.... Hatfield’s child dying”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Harm no forseeable</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Intent of violence = violence</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">And, nuclear weapons intentionally harm innocents to make a state dysfunctional. Nuclear deterrence must be based on the intent for this to occur for three reasons McMahan</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">(Jeff McMahan, Deterrence and Deontology, Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, “Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence”, Chicago Journals, 1985)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“Suppose for the....such an intention”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">And weapons themselves express a readiness and predetermined intention to do harm, Donaldson</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">(Thomas Donaldson, Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense, Ethics Vol. 95, No. 3, Chicago Journals, 1985)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“The critical moral... the other side”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Presume Affirmative</span>

==Negative== 


===Kappeler K=== 


A is the link: The affirmative’s defines violence as external from their lives, which allows them to abdicate responsibility. However, denial of our individual culpability with violence, our will to violence, forecloses the possibility for change, because the sole reason violence occurs is because we take violent action and abdicating responsibility abdicates the cause of all violence, Kappeler ’95
[Susanne Kappeler,Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Akhawayn_University|__Al Akhawayn University__]] The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 1-4,] 1995

“What is striking is that.... of limited choice.”

B is the impact: Not recognizing our responsibility to violence, causes us to miss the normality of violent action. This failure leaves us bound to repeat acts of warfare, cruelty, and enslavement, Kappeler ’95
[Susanne Kappeler, Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Akhawayn_University|__Al Akhawayn University__]]The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 8-9] 1995

“Violence, what we usually.... permit them to happen.”

And, the only way we can have a true insight is by recognizing the inner turmoil within ourselves that is responsible for the violence, as war is caused by the physiological drives within us, reflection on these drives is the only way to stop them, Krishnamurti’ 48

(Jiddu, Collected Works of J. Krishnamurti, Krishnamurti was a philosopher, spiritual leader, and teacher. He was awarded the UN Peace Medal [[http://www.katinkahesselink.net/kr/war.html|__http://www.katinkahesselink.net/kr/war.html__]]) 1948

“How can we solve.... upon them, transform them.”

Thus the alternative, is recognizing the will to violence and destruction. The sole reason we pursue nukes is to destroy ourselves, the will to world destruction relies on our internal will to death expressed in suicide, Kull ’83
Kull, Steven, Director Program on International Policy Attitudes (PIPA) School of Public Policy University of Maryland, College Park. “Nuclear Arms and the Desire for World Destruction”, Political Psychology, Vol. 4, No. 3 (Sep., 1983), pp. 563-591, International Society of Political Psychology

“Probably the most.... of all homicides” 

The AC replicates the will in their AC, by expressing an interest in death, by going into graphic detail about the harms we can see there will to death, Kull ’83
Kull, Steven, Director Program on International Policy Attitudes (PIPA) School of Public Policy University of Maryland, College Park. “Nuclear Arms and the Desire for World Destruction”, Political Psychology, Vol. 4, No. 3 (Sep., 1983), pp. 563-591, International Society of Political Psychology

“However it is achieved.... nothing but a path to death”

But the will to death and destruction can also be found in our desire for mutual-death, to take people out with it, such as in the logic of Mutually-Assured-Destruction, Kull ’83
Kull, Steven, Director Program on International Policy Attitudes (PIPA) School of Public Policy University of Maryland, College Park. “Nuclear Arms and the Desire for World Destruction”, Political Psychology, Vol. 4, No. 3 (Sep., 1983), pp. 563-591, International Society of Political Psychology

“Another component of the desire.... enticing code name, “white night.”

And only my alternative can access any solvency because the nexus of non-violent change happens with the individual and understanding violence as an ill of society, not as a circumstance of society, Kappeler ‘95
[Susanne Kappeler,Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Akhawayn_University|__Al Akhawayn University__]] The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 1-4,, 258-59] 1995



“If we nevertheless... a non-violent society”


===Politics=== 


A is the Uniqueness Obama is pushing for climate change— and the passage of the legislation is likely in the status quo, Brown and Shiner,

Brown and Shiner, Politico staff writer, 6/24/2010 [Carrie, Meredith, "Obama: 'On the brink of passing Wall Street reform'," [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=6AE0CB52-18FE-70B2-A8C70158705D44B5%5D|http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=6AE0CB52-18FE-70B2-A8C70158705D44B5]]]

"His hoped for.... a way ahead."


B is the Popularity, which the AC is not, Treaties on disarmament, be them gradual or immediate, can not afford to be politicized, Democrats need to scrap literally every last bit of political capital in order for it to pass, especially with some democrats on the edge about supporting arms reduction, Castellaw explains, 

John Castellaw, Dirk Jameson, John Adams, Lt. Gen. John Castellaw, Lt. Gen. Dirk Jameson and Brig. Gen. John Adams are members of Consensus for American Security, a nonpartisan group of security experts committed to speak out on the most critical nuclear security threats facing Americans today and what we will face tomorrow, Let national security, not politics, guide decision on START, August 29, 2010, [[http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinion/perspectives/837317-263/let-national-security-not-politics-guide-decision.html]]


"It is still.... and democratic administrations."


And, with Midterms in November and only one republican senator supporting legislation on a nuclear arms control this is the only chance democrats have of passing partisan legislation, Fabian,
Lugar: 'Large majority' of Republicans will end up backing the START treaty, Jordan Fabian, 08/27/10, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/116169-lugar-large-majority-of-republicans-will-back-start-treaty?page=2#comments|__http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/116169-lugar-large-majority-of-republicans-will-back-start-treaty?page=2#comments__]]
"By rule, getting.... do as well."

This kills climate change legislation, Obama’s political capital is key to passage, Bravender,

Bravender, Greenwire staff writer, 6/23/2010 [Robin, "White House Cancellation Frustrates Backers of Senate Climate Bill ," [[http://www.nytimes.com/gwire/2010/06/23/23greenwire-white-house-cancellation-frustrates-backers-of-18123.html%5D|http://www.nytimes.com/gwire/2010/06/23/23greenwire-white-house-cancellation-frustrates-backers-of-18123.html]]]



"Senate Democrats have... with his Cabinet."


C is the Impact, Obama’s climate agenda is key to solve global climate change, Friend

Friend, SEO Staff Writer, Marketing and Newsroom, 6/23/2010, [Kristen, "Senate Democrats Wrestle over Climate Change Cap and Trade," [[http://www.seolawfirm.com/2010/06/senate-democrats-wrestle-over-climate-change-cap-and-trade/%5D|http://www.seolawfirm.com/2010/06/senate-democrats-wrestle-over-climate-change-cap-and-trade/]]]



" Cap and Trade.... From 1990 levels."

===DEFCON 1=== 


<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Ought = Moral obligation</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Permissibility goes negative</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Presumption goes negative</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">And, one can never determine the intentionality of a state Gerson</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Gerson (Lloyd Gerson, “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach.” Aristotle’s Politics Today, 2007)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“Another, way to....that it won”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">I contend that possession of nuclear weapons is permissible since on balance, states possess nukes for self-defense. Empirically, when states acquire nuclear weapons, they are given more respect in the international arena, Carpenter:</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“U.S. behavior may....caution and respect”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">And even if a state uses deterrence for purposes different than garnering respect, because the primary intention is still the maintenance of self-defense, possessing nuclear weapons is permissible, Kavka</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Kavka [Gregory S. Kavka, “Some Paradoxes of Deterrence,” Deterrent Intentions Revisited, The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 75, No. 6 (Jun., 1978)]</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“If a deterrent... as a means”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Act-Omission</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">AFF is an action.</span>

=== === 


===Acronyms=== 

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">A is the framework: Nuclear representations must be evaluated before the plan itself – glossing over the question of nuclear representations ensures serial policy failure </span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Smith 89 (Jeff, __Unthinking the Unthinkable__, p.13-14, dbm)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“In a discursive.... way of them.”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Using nuclear acronyms hides the realities of nuclear violence, Bosmajian</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">Bosmajian 84 (Haig, prof. of speech communication @ U of Washington-Seattle, Christian Century, “Dehumanizing People and Euphemizing War,” 12/5/84, <span style="font: 8.0px 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.religion-online.org/showarticle.asp?title=1442]]</span>, dbm)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“Acronyms are still.... defending the indefensible.”</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">This flawed terminology insures a breakdown of deterrence resulting in nuclear holocaust and extinction -- vote negative to reject their dangerous terminology, this breaks out of their linguistic prison, Gates</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">**Gates 02** (John M, Aileen Dunham Professor of History, Emeritus -- Wooster U, THE U.S. ARMY AND IRREGULAR WARFARE, CHAPTER ELEVEN, THE CONTINUING PROBLEM OF CONCEPTUAL CONFUSION, <span style="font: 8.0px 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.wooster.edu/History/jgates/book-ch11.html|__http://www.wooster.edu/History/jgates/book-ch11.html__]]</span>. dbm)</span>

<span style="font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px;">“In any case.... to avoid disaster.”</span>



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

<span style="background-color: #ff8888; color: #880000; text-decoration: inherit;"> [[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>[[#htmldiff2]]