For aff cites--- [[mailto:sparker1407@gmail.com|sparker1407@gmail.com]]

For neg cites--- [[mailto:ianxwren@gmail.com|ianxwren@gmail.com]]

[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Wake== 
===-CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY=== 

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Withdrawal of U.S. troops in South Korea is inevitable due to anti-American sentiment and budgetary pressure. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Printz and Doran</span>** **<span style="background-color: yellow;">0</span>****<span style="background-color: yellow;">6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Scott A., Lieutenant Colonel, and George Doran, Project Adviser, USAWC Strategy Research Project, “A U.S Military Presence in a Post-Unified Korea: Is it Required?”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448748&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A second factor that could … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">on the capabilities of allies</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 42. </span>


**THUS THE PLAN: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea.**

===-CONTENTION TWO IS KOREAN CONFLICT=== 

**Cheonan sinking makes conflict inevitable**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]], JMP) </span>
__It has been weeks since …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to defend its own personnel.</span>

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Armstrong, 10</span> –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">there … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">War, not start it anew. </span>

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">North Korea might decide that it has nothing to lose in the status quo – making more miscalculations likely </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Righter, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Worked for the Far Eastern Economic Review and Newsweek in Asia, as development and diplomatic correspondent of The Sunday Times. (Rosemary, 5/25/10, Times Online, “It’s risky, but this time North Korea must pay” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/rosemary_righter/article7136464.ece]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the lack of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">quite reached this danger point. </span>


**We’ll isolate two scenarios:**

**First is CBW Strikes**

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">US conventional forces encourage CBW strikes—these would cripple combat effectiveness </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">TULAK 1995 </span>**(Arthur, Captain in the US army and Master’s Degree in Defense and Strategic Studies, “Tactical nuclear weapons - does the U.S. army still need them?” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA389152&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Dr. Gray pointed out__,__</span> __Third …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the United States military.295</span>

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">CBW use would result in US nuclear retaliation </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">SCHNEIDER 1997</span>** (Barry, Director of the USAF Counterproliferation Center at Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, and an Associate Professor of International Relations in the Department of Future Conflict Studies at the U.S. Air War College., Future War and Counterproliferation, 72-73) 
As a result, today, in the … __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">might demand harsh nuclear retribution</span>.__

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">US nuclear response destroys the nuclear taboo—this makes worldwide nuclear wars inevitable </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">GIZEWSKI 1996</span>** (Peter, Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400) Calum
Absolute and all-encompassing, __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the … </span>__of more destruction to come.

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Scenario Two is China War </span>**

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">War will result in CBW use and draw in both the U.S. and China and push Taiwan to declare independence</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Watcher, 10</span>** **<span style="font-weight: normal;">(5/27/10, </span>****<span style="font-weight: normal;">Paul Watcher, writer for aol. http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/south-korea-vs-north-korea-what-another-korean-war-would-look-like/19491485)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(May 27) -- </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Tensions continue to … would be much much worse.</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea's Response: South Korea is far from defenseless, however. It has a [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_number_of_troops|standing army]] of more than 500,000 and nearly 10 times that in trained reservists. It has twice the population of the North and is a First-World economic power with huge industrial capacity, while North Korea is an economic backwater where much of the population is malnourished. In any protracted conflict, these would be huge advantages. What's more, the DMZ is heavily [[@http://www1.american.edu/ted/ice/dmz.htm|mined]], and the border area is [[@http://www.worldatlas.com/webimage/countrys/asia/kr.htm|hilly]] (even mountainous along the East Coast) and offers natural defensive positions. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Actors: Alliances haven't changed … by these postwar social challenges.</span>

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Hunkovic 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]] </span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A war between China, Taiwan … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">be considered in this study.</span>

===[[#LastEdit]]-CONTENTION THREE IS REGIONALISM=== 

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – … and stop major power domination </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Francis, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the conclusion of the … a strong, independent East Asian Union. </span>

<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a __…__ motivate __sustainable__ regional security cooperation </span>**</span>
<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> - *</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND **Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute** </span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>**</span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The security treaties with the … </span></span>**central and west-central Pacific. 

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Lee, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org|www.cfr.org]], JMP) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">form of the U.S.-Korea alliance</span>.__**

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy. </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Espiritu, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home. </span>**

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Strengthening the East Asian regional security architecture key to solve terrorism, territorial disputes, disease, environmental degradation, and maritime security </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Nanto, 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf) </span>**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A stronger </span>__**__regional security organization **…**__ **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">will exist in the future. </span>**

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Territorial disputes draw in great powers --- causes World War 3 </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Waldron, 97</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO) </span>**
**__MAKING THESE flash-points all … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Japan--or the</span>__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; border: 1pt solid windowtext;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; border: 1pt solid windowtext;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates. </span>**


===-CONTENTION FOUR IS CHINA=== 


Advantage Three is China 

The plan eases the transition to a more multipolar world – trying to cling to the status quo makes hegemonic decline and conflict with China inevitable 
Bandow, 09 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug, </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“First Among Equals,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It’s the job of military … </span>**__smoother will be the transition.__

Conflict with China will escalate to global nuclear war 
Hunkovic, 09 – **American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict**
**Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]**

**__A war between China, Taiwan …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">be considered in this study. </span>**

Withdrawal solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula 
Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY The U.S. finds … </span>__it. We can help them do so.__**

Motivating Beijing to take a greater regional role ensures its peaceful rise 
Bandow, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP) </span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">So Washington should exhibit humility … </span>other’s economic and geopolitical ambitions. </span>**

==St. Marks--NEW PLAN TEXT== 
PLAN: The United States federal government should implement a withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea.
==Blake 1AC== 
PLAN: The United States federal government should implement a withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea.
===Contention 1 is Korean Conflict=== 
**Tensions unprecedently high now—3 warrants.
Stares, 10 (Paul B. Stares, General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventative action, Council on Foreign Relations, CONTINGENCY PLANNING MEMORANDUM NO. 10. Military Escalation in Korea, November 2010, sparky)

Tensions ran perilously high...internal criticism of the new leader’s stewardship.**

USFK artillery exercises encourage further North Korean aggression, more potential for escalation because of South Korean domestic pressure.
Keyes, 12/16. ( CNN Senior Producer, General: South Korea drill could cause ‘Chain Reactions’, http://www.cnn.com/2010/US/12/16/korea.military.exercise/index.html)

The U.S. military is concerned that...from trying the gambit again."

U.S. troops risk starting a war through miscalculation – will escalate to ground war.
Hornberger, 09 – founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation (6/16/09, Jacob G., “Pull Out of Korea (and Everywhere Else)” http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-06-16.asp)

Notwithstanding its occupations of two nations...plunges our nation into bigger messes than it already has.

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Armstrong, 10</span> –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">there … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">War, not start it anew. </span>

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">US conventional forces encourage CBW strikes—these would cripple combat effectiveness </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">TULAK 1995 </span>**(Arthur, Captain in the US army and Master’s Degree in Defense and Strategic Studies, “Tactical nuclear weapons - does the U.S. army still need them?” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA389152&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Dr. Gray pointed out__,__</span> __Third …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the United States military.295</span>

North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks – greater risk than nuclear weapons
Levy, 07 (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html)

Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack...and large quantities can be developed within days. 

Impact is extinction
Ochs 02 – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons of mass destruction...patriotism is the highest of all crimes.

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">CBW use would result in US nuclear retaliation </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">SCHNEIDER 1997</span>** (Barry, Director of the USAF Counterproliferation Center at Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, and an Associate Professor of International Relations in the Department of Future Conflict Studies at the U.S. Air War College., Future War and Counterproliferation, 72-73) 
As a result, today, in the … __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">might demand harsh nuclear retribution</span>.__

Structural factors force North Korea to target U.S. forces. The U.S. will retaliate with nuclear weapons—only withdrawal solves.
Meyer 09 (Carlton, former U.S. Marine Corps officer, participated in military exercises in Korea, “The Pentagon’s Favorite Demon”, The Future of Freedom Foundation, 18 June, http://www.fff.org/comment/com0906h.asp)

The North Korean military could gain...what Asian boys ought to be doing themselves.”

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">US nuclear response destroys the nuclear taboo—this makes worldwide nuclear wars inevitable </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">GIZEWSKI 1996</span>** (Peter, Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400)
Absolute and all-encompassing, __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the … </span>__of more destruction to come.

===Contention 2 is Regionalism=== 

**<span style="background-color: yellow;">U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – … and stop major power domination </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Francis, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the conclusion of the … a strong, independent East Asian Union. </span>

<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a __…__ motivate __sustainable__ regional security cooperation </span>**</span>
<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> - *</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND **Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute** </span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>**</span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The security treaties with the … </span></span>**central and west-central Pacific. 

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Lee, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">form of the U.S.-Korea alliance</span>.__**

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy. </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Espiritu, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home. </span>**

South Korea is key – middle power leadership key to solve conflict.
Young 08 (professor of international relations at the Catholic University of Korea, Asian Voices 11/5/08, 6/22/10)
http: new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855)

As a ‘middle power, South Korea, can...presented by Dr. Young. 

REGIONALISM PREVENTS AN OTHERWISE INEVITABLE ASIAN ENERGY CRISIS, STABILIZING THE REGION.
Akira Kojima, Chairman, Japan Center for Economic Research, “Political Will Key to Integration,” Nikkei Weekly, 7-11-05 LN//mac-sam

Asia's gas tank is empty...Steel Community - is coming into view

ENERGY CRISIS SPARKS REGIONAL PROLIF AND RISE OF AN ISLAM-CONFUCIAN ALLIANCE TO COUNTERBALANCE U.S. POWER, SPARKING GREAT POWER WAR.
Kent Calder, Director, Programme on US-Japan Relations, Princeton University, summarized in a review by Leon Hadar in “Arc of Crisis in Asia,” BUSINESS TIMES (Singapore), September 3, 1996, p. 13.

Calder’s main thesis is...over control of energy resources.

=Negative= 



==1NC Decentralization CP (Afghanistan)== 



**Text: The United States federal government should implement a shift to a decentralized-democracy model in Afghanistan.**


**Military solutions are ineffective without political shifts—only changing from the status quo drive towards centralization can create stability and serve long-term U.S. interests.**


**Biddle et al. 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, along with Fotini Christia and J. Alexander Their, Biddle is a senior fellow for defense policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Christia is a professor of political science at MIT, There is director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Defining Success in Afghanistan: What can the United States Accept?” in Foreign Affairs, July/August 2010, pg. 59-60, IWren) </span>


**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Afghanistan has been a failing experiment … </span>acceptable can still be salvaged.__**


==[Wake] Politics 1NC== 



<span class="Underline">**Obama will launch a strike if he can’t get public support—empirically supported.** </span>





**Hanson September 9th****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Victor Davis, Mercury News Online, “Opinion: Victor Davis Hanson: Will weakened Obama spring an 'October surprise'?”, [[http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/ci_16032978?nclick_check=1]]</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 9/9/10, IWren) </span></span>

<span class="Underline">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Democrats will probably suffer … than unemployment and record deficits.</span></span>



==Scouting== 

Neg fiat bad and aliens CP most common 2AR/2NRs.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]