[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1 is inherency </span>__
**U.S. currently has 28, 500 military personnel stationed in South Korea – No more reductions are planned.** 
[[#_Toc142722025]]<span class="NothingChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (U.S. Department of State on Asian-Pacific matters; ‘Background Note: South Korea;’ May 28, 2010; </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/2800.htm<span class="NothingChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, Accessed June 23, 2010)</span></span> <span style="color: white;">Bra</span></span><span style="color: white; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">n</span><span style="color: white; font-size: 11pt;">don Nhan cut this card. =D</span><span style="color: white; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> <span class="NothingChar">The United States… in both countries. </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
=<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan: </span></span>= 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **The Unites States Federal government should reduce all of its military presence in South Korea.**  </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__Contention 2 is Asian Regionalism__** <span class="Underline"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
**The plan eases the transition to a multi-polar world – trying to cling to the status quo makes U.S.-Sino war inevitable Bandow, 09** – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug, “First Among Equals,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]], JMP) 

It’s the job.…be the transition**__.__**


===<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">U.S presence crushes South Korean diplomacy – only withdrawal can solve </span>=== 
<span class="Heading2Char">Sik 6</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> (Cheong Woo, Representative – Civil Network for a Peaceful Korea, “ROK-U.S. Alliance: More Harm Than Good”, 4-4, </span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">[[http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=321054]]</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">)  </span>

Fourthly, if South…stamp for Washington.
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
**A wide range of problems with China, Japan, and North Korea makes it necessary to have South Korea shift to lead in East Asian regionalism** 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Young 8** - AsiaViews, Edition: 43/V/Nov/2008 South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation . Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the Asian Voices series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. [[http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855]]</span>

North Korea’s nuclear …by regional organizations.
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Withdrawal enables a better model of Asian regional security--></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 9</span></span> - Why Are "We" Defending South Korea? By Doug Bandow Published 09/08/09 2009 Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of //Foreign Follies: America’s New Global Empire// (Xulon Press). http://www.campaignforliberty.com/article.php?view=201 </span>

Adm. Timothy Keating,…across the Pacific.
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Strengthening the East Asian regional security architecture key to solve terrorism, territorial disputes, disease, environmental degradation, and maritime security** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Nanto, 08** – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__A stronger regional__…in the future. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Asian conflict goes nuclear---most likely hotspot  </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sheridan 9</span></span> – Greg Sheridan, Foreign editor – The Australian, Hatoyama poised for global struggle, The Australian, 9-5-09, http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html</span>

Kurt <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Campbell</span></span>, now<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…on the globe. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**South Korean Soft power is key to preventing Asian prolif** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="Heading2Char">Nye</span> 2 – 12 – <span class="Heading2Char">08</span> [Joseph is dean of the Kennedy School of Harvard University, “Both Soft, Hard Powers Needed for NK Denuclearization: Nye” L/N]</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Harvard Professor Joseph…of Korea University. </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**The plan will spur South Korea to engage in diplomacy through multilateral channels – reinvigorating these is key to prevent great power conflicts** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Lim, 07** – Fellow at the Korea Development Institute (11/27/07, Wonhyuk, Nautilus Policy Forum Online 07-086A, “Economic Consequences of ROK-U.S. Separation,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/07086Lim.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Compared with the…with the ROK.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Dependence on U.S. troops makes South Korean leadership for Asian regionalism impossible---withdrawal solves** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Young 8** - AsiaViews, Edition: 43/V/Nov/2008 South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation . Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the //Asian Voices// series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855</span>

As a ‘middle power…insufficient domestic support.


=<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">[[#_Toc267344242]][[#_Toc267344298]][[#_Toc271101872]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>= 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__Contention 3 is Korean War__** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**U.S. presence in South Korea makes North Korean provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw in** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Bandow, 10** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Suspicions continue to…2010 is bizarre.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Even if a conflict won’t start __intentionally__, current high tensions risk __accidents__ that __escalate__ to global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**STRATFOR, 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">But no one… escalates much further. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**The status quo is fundamentally different – nuclear use is now likely and deterrence won’t solve** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Chung, 10** – Visiting Professor at the School of International Relations, Nanyang Technological University and former Professor of international relations at Seoul National University (6/1/10, Chung Chong Wook, “The Korean Crisis: Going Beyond the Cheonan Incident,” http://www.rsis.edu.sg/publications/Perspective/RSIS0352010.pdf)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The sinking of…is not advisable.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Reinforcing deterrence just makes __miscalculation__ more likely** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Armstrong, 10 –** Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The Korean War…start it anew.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Deliberate, accidental or unauthorized CBW use is likely** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**ICG, 09** (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">This report examines**…**attacks or incidents.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Will __spread globally__ within __six weeks__ – greater risk that nuclear weapons** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Levy, 07** (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Immediately following 9-11…developed within days. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Impact is extinction** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Of all the weapons of…of all crimes. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**And, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The international community…the international community. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="Underline">**Independently,** </span>**withdrawal will motivate South Korea and China to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Erickson, 10** – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” [[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">On the night…before it’s too late. </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Withdrawal will spur peaceful negotiations and inter-Korean peace** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**Feffer, 04** – contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of //North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis// (6/23/04, John, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The vortex of…home its troops.</span>


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">2AC Start Block </span></span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1. </span></span>US-RUSSIAN RELATIONS INEVITABLE – LAUNDRY LIST. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BAZHANOV 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Yevgeny, vice chancellor of research and international relations at the Foreign Ministry’s Diplomatic Academy in Moscow “5 Barriers to a Western Partnership” Moscow Times --></span>
But <span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">despite </span>**</span>these…<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a geopolitical rival.  </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2. </span></span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">No link – politics don’t affect ratification </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">White 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (K.E, Proliferation Press, 4/7, “Will Obama’s START Treaty Pass the Senate?” http://proliferationpress.com/2010/04/07/blog-on-blog-can-obamas-start-pass-the-senate) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">But <span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">will partisan…and controversial—proposal. </span>**</span></span>
[[#_Toc268601077]]

3. Plan’s popular – Congress and the Pentagon are massively anti-Korea
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 3</span></span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doug Bandow is a Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, 2003, [“Bring the Troops Home: Ending the Obsolete Korean Commitment”, Cato Policy Analysis, 5-7, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa474.pdf]</span>

For years it…distinct, anti-Korean backlash.”

4. Defense lobbies love the plan – support for South Korea has evaporated
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flake 6</span></span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gordon L. Flake is an Executive Director – Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, [“U.S.-South Korean Relations”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 9-27, Lexis]</span>

In and of…longstanding military support.
[[#_Toc271123179]]
[[#_Toc271123180]]
**6. Only with decisive wins on liberal issues like the plan will Obama regain control of his base support** 
**Harrison 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Edward Harrison is a finance specialist at Global Macro Advisors. He was a strategy and finance executive at Deutsche Bank, Bain, and Yahoo. Edward started his career as a diplomat and speaks German, Dutch, Swedish, Spanish and French. He holds an MBA from Columbia University and a BA in economics from Dartmouth College 8-17-9] </span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">I have said…needs it most. </span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**7. Spending Political capital gives more Political Capital- Great Presidents in the past are empirical proof**  
**Heineman 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jr., has held top positions in government, law and business. He is the author of //High Performance with High Integrity// (Harvard Business Press, 2008). Mar 23 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ben W. Heineman JR., “No Presidential Greatness without spending Political Capital,” http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/03/no-presidential-greatness-without-spending-political-capital/37865/ ) </span>

Only in recent…and Lyndon Johnson.  
<span class="Underline"> </span>
__<span class="Underline">**10. Fights now**  </span>__
__<span class="Underline">**A. Republicans are mad about ending upper class budget cuts** </span>__
<span class="Underline">__Mark **Arsenault** **and** Donovan **Slack** Globe Staff **9/9**, 2010 (http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2010/09/09/obama_fights_break_for_wealthy/__ </span>
<span class="Underline">
We should not…the economy’s health.  </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
__<span class="Underline">**B. Obama bashing the Republicans for the economy** </span>__
<span class="Underline">__Stephen **Collinson** (AFP) **9/8** 2010 (“Obama to challenge Republican foes on economy”http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iwGFrlL6Fl7k0OdalMaR3AZsLNHQ__ </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">US President Barack…mid-term election meltdown. </span>


=Negative= 
=START= 

START WILL PASS – HISTORY PROVES IT WILL GET THE VOTES. 
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">CLINTON 9-8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Hillary, Secretary of State, “Remarks at the Council on Foreign Affairs” CQ Transcripts -- lexis] </span>
CLINTON: Well, I...with the Russians<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.  </span>

**US Military draw-downs abroad drain capital**  
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson, ’09</span></span> (Niall, American Interest, http://www.the-american-interest.com/ai2/article.cfm?Id=335&MId=16)

So much for...is pretty rich. 



PC KEY TO START PASSAGE. 
Sharp<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, 8/28/0</span>9 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control)</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While beliefs </span>**</span>about...<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the White House</span>**</span>**.**  


START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Montreal Gazette 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] </span>
Still, Blair and<span style="font-size: 8pt;">...</span>them," Blair said.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>

THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION. 
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">American Prospect</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, 2/26/</span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">01</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">  </span>
<span style="color: #333333;">The bitter </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">disputes...there could be. </span>**</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
=Minerals DA= 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Recent mineral discoveries make Afghanistan the most important mining center in the world </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Risen 10</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (James Risen, writer for the New York Times, “U.S. Identifies Vast Mineral Riches in Afghanistan”, June 13, 2010, </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/14/world/asia/]]</span><span style="color: black;"> 14minerals.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1)  </span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The United States...</span>**</span><span style="color: black;">laptops and BlackBerrys. </span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">US troops are the only thing preventing foreign takeover of minerals in Afghanistan  </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Poonawalla 10</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Aziz Poonawalla, Postdoctoral Fellow at University of Wisconsin and a member of the Dawoodi Bohra, “Afghanistan's trillion dollar curse: lithium”, June 13, 2010, http://blog.beliefnet.com/cityofbrass/2010/06/afghanistans-trillion-dollar-c.html) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The words, "</span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="underline">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_curse|resource]]</span>...<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">is to come. </span></span></span>**
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">China wants Afghanistan’s minerals  </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Risen 10</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (James Risen, writer for the New York Times, “U.S. Identifies Vast Mineral Riches in Afghanistan”, June 13, 2010, </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/14/world/asia/]]</span><span style="color: black;"> 14minerals.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">At the same...American officials</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">said.</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Chinese control over minerals in Afghanistan collapses the US military  </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Chang 10</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Gordon G. Chang, researcher for the National Intelligence Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and the Pentagon and writer for Forbes, “The Taliban: World's Next Minerals Superpower”, June 16, 2010, http://www.forbes.com/2010/06/16/taliban-minerals-afghanistan-asia-opinions-columnists-gordon-g-chang.html)</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Rare earth minerals...good for us</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**</span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Military power is key to heg </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Hartman 08</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Thomas Hartman, Department of Political Science at University of California, 2008, http://www.allacademic.com/one/www/research/index.php?cmd=Download+Document&key=unpublished_manuscript&file_index=13&pop_up=true&no_click_key=true&attachment_style=attachment&PHPSESSID=fa567ae4f20db2ce78dafbe0bca882c8) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Literature today suggests<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">...</span>**</span>American foreign affairs. </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Heg prevents extinction  </span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 7</span></span><span style="color: black;"> – Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August-September 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Policy Review, online: </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]]</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0.2in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, there is...States and Europe</span><span style="color: black;">. </span></span>
=Deterrence= 
**Withdrawal guarantees Afghan collapse, devastates hegemony and spurs terrorism.**  
**Stephens, 2009**  
[Bret, foreign-affairs columnist of the //Wall Street Journal// and deputy editorial page editor, responsible for the editorial pages of the Journal's European and Asian editions, was editor-in-chief of the //Jerusalem Post// in 2002-2004, “The Afghan Stakes,” 9-7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203440104574398442481337048.html#articleTabs%3Darticle]
So George Will<span style="font-size: 8pt;">...</span>another 9/11 anniversary. 

**Afghanistan spills over, goes nuclear.** 
**Morgan, 2007** 
[Stephen, Former Member of the British Labour Party Executive committee, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]
However events may...against the US. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**US retaliates to a terrorist attack, causes extinction.**  
**Corsi, 2005**  
[Jerome, Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, Expert in Antiwar movements and political violence, Atomic Iran, pg. 176-178]
The <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">United States...of exacting revenge.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>


**Heg collapse guarantees nuclear wars around the globe.**  
**Kagan, 2007**  
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[</span>Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>“End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review,// http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span class="Style1CharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is a...</span></span> an easier path.

__<span class="Underline">**Military presence vital to East Asian stability – withdrawal causes escalating wars and Japanese prolif.**  </span>__
__<span class="Underline">**Wortzel 2k**- Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation </span>__
__<span class="Underline">(8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis//au) </span>__
<span class="Underline">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON - </span>There has...disappear as well.__ </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Causes nuclear World War 3.**  
**Knight Ridder in ‘00** 
[Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N]
Few if any... <span class="UnderlineChar">for potential disaster." </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"> </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"> </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"> </span>

**Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.**  
**Halloran, 2009** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] </span>
That anxiety has... US nuclear umbrella.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Nuclear war.**  
**Cimbala, 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>
If the possibility...<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">major interstate warfare</span>. 



**US withdrawal wrecks regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation.**  
**Richardson, 2006**<span style="font-weight: normal;">  </span>
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html] </span>**
Rumors of a... a reunified Korea. 
=Consult Japan= 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0.2in;"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
**__TEXT__: The United States federal government ought to enter into prior, binding consultation with the government of Japan on whether to withdraw all marine corps from Okinawa with the possibility of minor modifications.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan wants consultation with the US- they won’t say no  </span>**</span>__
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sutter</span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Prof</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">., Asian Studies, Georgetown U.), THE UNITED STATES IN ASIA, 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__, 208.__ </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite its fears...government is unpredictable. </span></span>

**First is the alliance – genuine and binding consultation prior to implementation is key to alliance**  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike </span>**Mochizuki**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 3/22/</span>**97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brookings Review, lexis  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the U.S.-Japan...West European allies. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
**The alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard L//.// </span><span class="Heading2Char">//<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Armitage</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. </span>**Nye et al. 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asia,</span></span> in the...<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">global security strategy. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Prolif leads to nuclear war** 
**Utgoff**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, survival v. 44 no 2 summer 20</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 90 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
Widespread proliferation is...even whole nations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Strengthening the US-Japan alliance is critical to loosen Sino-Russian ties** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brookes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Fellow at the Heritage Foundation</span>**,** <span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">8-15-20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, “An Alarming Alliance: Sino Russian ties tightening” The Heritage Foundation, <span style="color: black;">http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed081505a.cfm</span>, accessed: 8-15-2K5)</span> 
First, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the loosen...Sino-Russian ties.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**Sino-Russian relations trigger renewed Russian aggression** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Menges</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Sr. Fellow at the Hudson Institute, </span><span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2K5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Constantine, “China: The Gathering Threat” pg. 426) </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of equal concern...and research entities.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**This causes nuclear conflict** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen</span></span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow @ Heritage, </span><span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ariel, “The New Great Game” accessed 8-24-2K5, online: http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1065.cfm) </span>
Much is at...<span class="Shrink"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">and local economies.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**Russian nuclear war leads to extinction** 
**Bostrom, Oxford philosophy faculty, 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nick, March “Existential Risks Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, , [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]], ]</span> 
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A much greater...humankind’s potential permanently</span>**</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
=Condition North Korea CP= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Plan: The United States federal government will [plan] on the condition that the Democratic Peoples’ Republic of Korea signs the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">First, the US can condition its withdrawal on North Korea signing the NPT. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Kristensen 6 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Hans, Federation of American Scientists, “The United States Nuclear Umbrella Over South Korea” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: blue; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.nukestrat.com/korea/umbrella.htm]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, there is…The Six-Party talks</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Second, __<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korea will say yes - pressured by 47 countries unanimously through South Korean nuclear summit.</span></span>__</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Doo-Hyong 4/13 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Hwang, Contributor to Yonhap News Agency, 4/13/10, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/04/14/39/0301000000AEN20100414000300315F.HTML) GAT</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">South Korea's hosting…</span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">community," Snyder said.</span></span> <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">  </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">
</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Third, <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korea is critical for the credibility of the NPT – now is key </span></span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">UNIS 5 </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(United Nations Information Service, http://www.unis.unvienna.org/unis/pressrels/2005/dc2969.html)JFS </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">YOSHIKI MINE (Japan)…the six-party talks. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">NPT key to regional stability </span>
**Glaser 9** (Bonnie, China Security, Aug. 2 2009, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=287)IM
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A nuclear-armed…</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">reunified Korean Peninsula. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">And, East Asian instability leads to nuclear war </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Landy 2k </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">(Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, L/N) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Few if any</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">international nonproliferation regime. </span></span>
=[[#_Toc270944345]]= 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should propose that it__________________________________________________________________  </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
**The plan risks international backlash consultation over military policy facilitates acceptance and blunts perceptions of US unilateralismCampbell Ward 3 –** Senior Fellows @ the Council on Foreign Relations(Kurt & Celeste, /, Foreign Affairs, Given the sensitivity of the issues involved, several steps should be taken before and during the rollout of any new military posture (September October may, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20030901faessay82507/kurt-m-campbell-celeste-johnson-ward/new-battle-stations.html?mode=print))plan 

first is ensuring…in diplomatic priorities. 
===__<span class="Underline">**Consultation and Communication are key to the NATO alliance** </span>__=== 
===<span class="Underline">__**Chernoff 95—**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__Associate Professor of Political Science at Colgate Univ (1995, Fred, after bipolarity p 10)__ </span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">The policies based…are not repeated.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Collapse of NATO causes immediate instability that escalates to superpower nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O'Sullivan</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-19</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Spectator]  </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Some of those ideas--notably, dissolution and "standing pat"--were never likely to be implemented. Quite apart from the sociological law that says organizations never go out of business even if their main aim has been achieved (the only exception being a slightly ominous one, the Committee for the Free World, which Midge Decter closed down after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact), </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NATO's essential aim…of European stability</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Consultation with NATO spills over to attract future U.S. involvement </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order. p 170) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nor can the…</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the United Nations. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Only prior and binding consultation solves the NB** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldgeier</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Institute for European Studies at George Washington, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Elizabeth </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherwood-Randall</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Alliance Relations at Stanford, 2-18-</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Well, you know,…and </span><span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">at NATO</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Prior binding consultation is critical to alliance success**  
<span class="Heading2Char">[[javascript:void(0);|Serfaty]]</span><span class="Heading2Char">, 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[javascript:void(0);|Simon Serfaty]]. Senior Adviser to the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Bridging the gap across the Atlantic: Europe and the United States in the Persian Gulf, [[http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdlink?RQT=318&pmid=28343&TS=1277314704&clientId=17822&VInst=PROD&VName=PQD&VType=PQD|The Middle East Journal]]. Washington: [[http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdlink?RQT=572&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD&pmid=28343&pcid=862894&SrchMode=3|Summer 1998]]. Vol. 52, Iss. 3; pg. 337) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Euro-American dialogue…its leadership unquestioningly. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Unilateral decision making crushes relations**  
**Kase, 2001 (**<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Miki Kase, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adjunct Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, Adjunct Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute,<span class="ssl0"> Europe, U.S. must determine new peacetime relationship,</span> <span class="verdana">The Daily Yomiuri, June 13, 2001, pg. 6)</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is </span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">not…</span></span><span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">with the Continent. </span></span>
<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
**Genuine Consultation Key to Solvency** 
**Ambassador Brooks, 2009** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Linton, US Ambassador and former Under Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Security and Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, Carnegie International Nonproliferation Conference www.carnegieendowment.org/files/npc_build_or_break4.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Well </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">always talk…Problems for another. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
**Failure to consult NATO on Afghanistan will be the end of US-NATO relations** 
**EUCE 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(April 2009, European Union Center of North Carolina, “Policy Area: NATO in Afghanistan” [[http://www.unc.edu/depts/europe/business_media/businessbriefs/Brief0904-afghanistan.pdf]])  </span>

NATO’s mission in…its Afghan quagmire. 

**NATO already wants to transition NATO/U.S. forces to Afghan forces this year** 
**Goebel 10** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor for Deutsche Well, Germany’s international broadcaster (4/23/10, Nicole, “NATO ministers agree plan for Afghanistan security handover,” http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,5497182,00.html) </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">NATO ministers agreed…</span>a gradual process." 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This backlash cripples U.S. leadership </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philip </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at Brookings, jan/feb </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Foreign Affairs] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="MinimizeChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="MinimizeChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is much…</span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">at every turn</span></span>.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Consulting NATO is key to European cooperation and American leadership </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mathiopoulos</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 6-15-0</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Margarita, Honorary Professor of US-Foreign Policy and International Security, University of Potsdam Department of History, International Herald Tribune, Come together, right now; Who needs America? II, lexis) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Conversely, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">success has…a propaganda bonanza.</span></span>  </span>

**NATO reinforces U.S.’s soft power** 
**Maximo 06** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Miccinilli, Graduated in International Relations and works for the Italian Council of Ministers at the Department of European Affairs, “In the Name of NATO”, March 2006) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><http://www.caei.com.ar/es/programas/dys/20.pdf> </span>

The key point…<span class="Underline">threats are discussed </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**The U.S.’s strong military involvement in NATO directly translates into political credibility** 
**Robertson 04**  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George, Tenth Secretary General of NATO serving from 1999 to 2003, “A New Organization for New Threats?” Europe, Harvard International Review, Vol. 6 in Fall 2004) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1263> </span>

Based on the…also very satisfied.
=Psychoanalysis K cites= 
**Militarism results in violence, only a rejection of politics can avoid exploitation and repression.
Dean 07 (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jodi,assc. Prof of political theory at Hobart and Williams smith 2007 </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Why Žižek for Political Theory? , http://zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/18/41, IJŽS Vol 1, No 1 <ajt>) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
Slavoj __Žižek__’s work…unfolding of freedom.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
**The affirmative engages in narcissistic aggression by trying to fill the gap between the Real and the Imaginary with otherization of the external.** 
**Stavrakakis 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis Stavrakakis, Fellow, University of Essex, LACAN AND THE POLITICAL: THINKING THE POLITICS, 1999, 118) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
What is most…That’s a good one!’
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
**This misunderstanding constructs socio-political fantasies and a self-fulfilling prophecy of destruction.** 
**Glynos** **and** **Stavrakakis 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jason Glynos is a professor at the University of Essex, Yannis Stavrakakis professor at the Aristotle University at Thessaloniki, Greece. “Lacan and Political Subjectivity: Fantasy and enjoyment in psychoanalysis and political theory”) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
All together these…socio-political possibilities. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
[[#_Toc111442617]]
**Der Derian 2**  
[[#_Toc111442618]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //The War of Networks// </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
Without falling into…science, practice semiology. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**Thus, our alternative is to embrace the gap by identifying with the Other and abandoning ego-formation. This disrupts social fantasy, opening discursive space for de-alienation. Recognizing the universality of the lack strips signifiers of their meaning.** 
**Stavrakakis 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yannis Stavrakakis, Fellow, University of Essex, LACAN AND THE POLITICAL: THINKING THE POLITICS, 1999, 133)</span> 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
By saying ‘We…in the Other<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]