[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000180 EndHTML:0000201984 StartFragment:0000092533 EndFragment:0000201948 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/maggiesolice/Desktop/Affirmative/1AC.dot 
[[#_Toc147578350]]

Plan Text: The United States federal government should reduce all of its military presence necessary for the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan. 
Contention I: Hegemony
The war in Afghanistan will collapse US power globally – 2 internal links:
First – US COIN presence means makes the US look weak and undermine soft power globally
<span class="Author-Date">Innocent and Carpenter, 9 -</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">*foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: LegacySerif-Bold;">**Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode ...**</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"><span class="Underline0">U.S. security than would withdrawal</span></span>. 


[[#_Toc147578352]] 
**The impact to soft power is nuclear proliferation, environmental destruction, failed states and diseases**
**Reiffel//, 5//** (Lex, Visiting Fellow at the Global Economy and Development Center of the Brookings Institution, The Brookings Institution, Reaching Out: Americans Serving Overseas, 12-27-2005, [[http://www.brookings.edu/views/papers/20051207rieffel.pdf|//www.brookings.edu/views/papers /20051207rieffel.pdf//]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accordingly,</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span> or police force.
**Additionally – soft power is key to US hegemony**
**Nye,** <span style="font-weight: normal;">dean of the Kennedy school of government at Harvard,</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">20</span>**03**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Joseph, “U.S. power and strategy after Iraq” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug)</span>
The problem for ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> a more uncertain future</span>.
The US approach to counter insurgency causes overstretch and over reliance, causing future global conflicts – collapses US power and undermines the war on terrorism
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">**Boyle, 10** - </span></span>1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**”** <span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>)
<span class="apple-style-span"> </span>
Finally, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span><span class="Underline0"> be more appropriate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Overstretch causes extinction<span class="msoIns"> </span>

<span class="Author-Date">Florig, 10</span> **-**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, <span style="color: black;">http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1</span>)</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">There ... particularly prone to massive miscalculation.</span> </span>[[#_Toc265747558]][[#_Toc265748774]][[#_Toc265748936]]
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 14pt;"> </span>
Ground force strength is critical to deterring adversaries - current overextension <span style="font-family: Helvetica;">emboldens enemies</span>
William J. Perry, Chair of The National Security Advisory Group, Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and Professor at Stanford, "The U.S. Military: Under Strain and at Risk," The National Security Advisory Group, January, 2006, <span style="color: #2951a9;">[[http://bcsia.ksg/|__http://bcsia.ksg__]]</span> .<span style="color: #2951a9;">[[http://harvard.edu/pub|__harvard.edu/pub__]]</span> lication.cfm ?program=CO RE&ctype=book&item _id=4 59 . 
In the...<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> to some contingencies.</span> </span>
[[#_Toc147578356]][[#_Toc265747559]][[#_Toc265748775]][[#_Toc265748937]] 
**And, US hegemony is critical to preventing global warming, nuclear proliferation, and terrorism – the alternative to unipolarity really is apolarity**
//<span style="font-style: normal;">Owen **Harries**</span>////<span style="font-style: normal;">, visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute in Sydney, 10/19/**07**</span>////<span style="font-style: normal;">, “Bush not the only problem” <</span>// //<span style="font-style: normal;">http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,22609649-7583,00.html></span>//
But perhaps...which is real enough <span style="font-size: 5pt;">even if it is sometimes grossly exaggerated.</span>

A substantial drawdown to a purely counterterrorism presence will maximize US influence in Central Asia and contain instability and terrorism
<span class="Author-Date">Simon, and Stevenson, 9</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)</span>* 
<span style="color: red;"> </span>
An effort on that ... problem that it has, in fact, become.

__<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Contention 2 is Insurgency</span></span>__
__<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The lack of a historical state structure in the Pashtun belt and the rise of Pashtun nationalism makes combatting corruption or raising a sustainable security force impossible. </span></span>__
<span class="Author-Date">Dorronsoro, 09</span><span class="Underline0"> - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (9/23/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Afghanization,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22218</span>)<span class="Underline0"> </span>
<span class="Underline0"> </span>
<span class="Underline0">In addition, ... Karzai regime. </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 14pt;"> </span>
Multiple impacts - 
First – Pakistan. A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse 
<span class="Underline0">**Akhtar, 10-**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1</span>)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">
</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">If it is a **...**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">**destabilizing the state**</span>**.**</span></span>

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
<span class="Author-Date">Pitt, 9</span>- //<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span>) 
||   ||
||   ||
But a suicide...should we all.
<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Second – Central Asia. A large military footprint bolsters radical nationalism throughout the entire region, risking wars thoughout</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date">Innocent and Carpenter, 9</span> **-** <span style="font-weight: normal;">*foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf</span>)</span>
Contrary to ... the American homeland. 
<span class="Underline0"> </span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 14pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This could draw in great powers</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date">Starr, 1</span><span class="Underline0"> [S. Frederick, Chairman of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute @ Nitze School of Advanced Int’l. Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., Federal Document Clearing House Congressional Testimony, “CENTRAL ASIAN NATIONS AND THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM”, 12-13, L/N]</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">There exists a fundamental ...</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> U.S. cannot ignore</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>
[[#_Toc147578363]]
**Third, nuclear terrorism.** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">**A terrorist attack inevitable by 2013 absent the plan.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**WSJ 9**,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1/3/ “Let's Commit to a Nuclear-Free World” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123094493785650643.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When Barack...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">t action is taken</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Nuclear terror attack causes extinction due to escalation.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Corsi 5**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jerome Corsi 05 Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University (Atomic Iran, p. 176-8)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">The <span style="font-family: Arial;">United States ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">capable of exacting revenge.</span></span>

Contention 3 is Solvency
A large military footprint combined with the perception of an illegitimate government make crushing the Taliban impossible – it can recruit faster than we can neutralize it
<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Galston 10 - </span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings</span> </span>(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Are the basic premises...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">force in Afghanistan</span>. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==Security== 
The affirmative’s discussion of policy is based on a positivist mode of “knowing” China. China is not something that we stand back and observe- this constructs a mode of thought that can only relate to China as a threat.
Chengxin Pan, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29,
2004
China and its relationship … seeks to make a contribution.

Security is constructed, not natural. The rhetoric of impending death is used to justify astonishing violence. Whole populations are eliminated in the name of security.
David Campbell, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998. (199 – 202)
Security and subjectivity …and foreign policy/Foreign Policy are all a part.

Reject the Affirmatives Logic of Security, This Allows For Actual Political Thought - Accepting Their Descriptions and Responses Colonizes The Debate
Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, ‘8 [Critique of Security, 185-6]
The only way out of such … return the gift.


**We have previously read Midterms and Delay**