[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
If you need full-text or access date, let us know
Aff: Email [[mailto:davidbarmitzvah07@gmail.com|davidbarmitzvah07@gmail.com]]
Neg: Email [[mailto:matt.g.marcus@gmail.com|matt.g.marcus@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==South Korea aff== 


<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Plan: The United States federal government should end close to all United States military presence in South Korea.</span>
**Advantage 1 is Korean War**

**U.S. presence makes provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw in**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bandow, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Suspicions continue to mount that North Korea torpedoed …fear their nation won’t be ready to lead its own defense. That Washington took military command in underdeveloped, impoverished South Korea in 1950 is understandable. To argue that America must continue doing so in 2010 is bizarre. </span>


**Even if a conflict won’t start __intentionally__, current high tensions risk __accidents__ that __escalate__ to global nuclear war**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">STRATFOR, 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Managing Escalation </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__no one, of course, is interested … be if the situation escalates much further.__



**The status quo is fundamentally different – nuclear use is now likely and deterrence won’t solve**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Chung, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Visiting Professor at the School of International Relations, Nanyang Technological University and former Professor of international relations at Seoul National University (6/1/10, Chung Chong Wook, “The Korean Crisis: Going Beyond the Cheonan Incident,” http://www.rsis.edu.sg/publications/Perspective/RSIS0352010.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The sinking of the Cheonan, for which South Korea blames Pyongyang, has triggered a crisis in the Korean peninsula. Though there is every reason to be pessimistic about the future, there is also a need to look beyond the crisis for long-term regional stability. </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">SHARPLY RISING</span> military <span style="background-color: yellow;">tensions</span> …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Korean stock market is indicative of how the situation is perceived. Despite all these ominous developments, however, premature pessimism is not advisable. </span>


**The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Armstrong, 10</span> –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__there is a real danger …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> time to end the Korean War, not start it anew. </span>

**North Korea might decide that it has nothing to lose in the status quo – making more miscalculations likely**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Righter, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Worked for the Far Eastern Economic Review and Newsweek in Asia, as development and diplomatic correspondent of The Sunday Times. (Rosemary, 5/25/10, Times Online, “It’s risky, but this time North Korea must pay” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/rosemary_righter/article7136464.ece]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is </span>__the lack of obvious motive for <span style="background-color: yellow;">… **greater miscalculations in the future.**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The sunshine policy was designed to ensure that North Korea never quite reached this danger point. </span>



**Also, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])** </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly … that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span>**



U.S. presence is useless to deter North Korea – withdrawal will motivate South Korea and China to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Erickson, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” [[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the night of March 26 the South Korean …</span> __that needs to be brought home before it’s too late.__**

Withdrawal will spur peaceful negotiations and inter-Korean peace 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Feffer, 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of //North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis// (6/23/04, John, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The vortex of Korean politics can make even Donald Rumsfeld sound like the most radical Korean peace activist. "After the cold war," he declared on June 3, "U.S. forces have been stationed in South Korea for too long." The occasion was the announcement of the largest U.S. troop reductions from the Korean peninsula since the Korean War armistice, which took place 51 years ago this month. The Pentagon is withdrawing one-third of its forces from South Korea and sending a portion of them to Iraq….</span> __that the benefits outweigh the costs.__**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Beset on all sides for its Iraq policy, the Bush administration needs a foreign policy victory. It needs to demonstrate that it isn't ignoring the Korean peninsula. And it needs to show the world that the United States, if only after 51 years, does eventually bring home its troops. </span>**


Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unauthorized 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">ICG 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">This report examines North Korea’s chemical …</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">or unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.</span>__

North Korean bioweapon use would __spread globally__ within __six weeks__ – greater risk that nuclear weapons 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Levy 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. </span>**
**__Intelligence analysts and … due to varying incubation periods__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days. </span>**



Extinction 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Ochs 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] </span>**

**__Of all the weapons of mass …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes. </span>**





Advantage 2 is Regionalism 
We have 2 scenarios 
First is regional cooperation 
U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that __does not__ rely on the U.S. – solves a litany of impacts 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Francis, 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">At the conclusion of the Second World War, the United States established bilateral military alliances in the Asia-Pacific intended to contain Soviet and Chinese communist expansion in the region. </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">US security strategy</span> now <span style="background-color: yellow;">focuses</span> largely <span style="background-color: yellow;">…</span>__**__power____**.**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> **The determining factor will be ASEAN’s ability to provide the leadership necessary to create a strong, independent East Asian Union.** </span>


<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a __clear sign__ of U.S. withdrawal can motivate __sustainable__ regional security cooperation </span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> – *</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND </span>** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute **<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>

<span class="Underline">The security treaties …**<span style="background-color: yellow;">territories in the</span> central and west-central <span style="background-color: yellow;">Pacific</span>.** </span>


**Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Lee, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org|www.cfr.org]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea of multilateral security cooperation in Northeast Asia is not a recent one. </span>__Since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__88__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__Korea has advocated regional security cooperation, and in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__94__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__… particularly when such an option still maintains a loose form of the U.S.-Korea alliance__


**Second is Russia**
**U.S. military concessions toward North Korea are critical to break the deadlock in the six party talks. This will provide a framework to re-establish US-Russian relations, stabilize the peninsula, and allow Russia to become a major economic player in the region.**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Toloraya, 8</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– diplomat with the rank of Minister and Director of Korean Programs at IMEMO, the top Russian Foreign Ministry official in charge of the Korean peninsula, Doctor of Economy and a Full Professor degree in Oriental Studies (Georgy, //Asian Perspective,// “</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">THE SIX PARTY TALKS: A RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE”, ProQuest) </span>**

<span style="margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> real <span style="background-color: yellow;">root of</span> the <span style="background-color: yellow;">controversy, </span>…</span> Northeast Asian regional energy and industrial projects.__ </span>

<span class="Underline">**Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Cohen 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Cohen: The real concern I have with this "we won the Cold War" … Congress, or the mainstream media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots. </span></span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bostrom</span>** **<span style="background-color: yellow;">2</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global ….thwart</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">humankind</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 4pt;">’s</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> potential </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">permanently</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>



<span class="Underline">**Independently, peaceful US overtures toward Korea is critical to break the deadlock in Russian-DPRK relations and pave the way for a massive expansion of renewed economic ties on the peninsula** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Joo, 9</span>** – Professor of Political Science at the University of Michigan (April 09, Seung-Horris, “Moscow–Pyongyang Relations under Kim Jong-il: High Hopes and Sober Reality”) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Trade and Investment </span>In the late … Russia and North Korea, the USA is the most important country to be reckoned with.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> By the same token, North Korea has become highly dependent on China in political and economic terms, and Russia will have tough time competing with China. The onset of a mini-Cold War between the USA and Russia may lead to a rekindling of intimate relations between Moscow and Pyongyang, but this scenario is unlikely. What is more likely is a complete immobilization or a sudden death due to serious illness of Kim Jong-il. What impact this eventuality will have on Moscow–Pyongyang relations will be anybody's guess. No matter what happens, Russia will have a long way to go before it is recognized as a major political–economic player in Korea and Northeast Asia. </span></span>


**Solves the Russian economy – now is key**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Kang 8</span>** (Seonjou, Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security, “Korea’s Pursuit of Energy Security”, [[http://www.keia.org/Publications/Other/KangFINAL.pdf|__http://www.keia.org/Publications/Other/KangFINAL.pdf__]])

__Among the__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> energy-exporting </span>__countries that … This diversification would <span style="background-color: yellow;">make it attractive for Russia to devise a cooperation strategy with Korea.</span>__


**A Russian economic collapse will trigger nuclear strikes against the US, provoke a Russo-Sino war, and threaten the world with an accidental launch**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">David 99</span> –** Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University [Steven R., “Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars,” //Foreign Affairs,// Jan/Feb, LN]

__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">If internal war </span>____<span style="color: black;">does <span style="background-color: yellow;">strike Russia, </span>…</span>__ __<span style="color: black;">Russia</span>__<span class="CharacterStyle2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, America must reduce the chances that </span></span>__<span style="color: black;">civil</span>__ __<span style="color: black;">conflict </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">there </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">will unleash nuclear weapons against the U</span>____<span style="color: black;">nited <span style="background-color: yellow;">S</span>tates</span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">. </span>__


<span class="Underline">**Trans-Korean pipeline solves the environment and Asian wars** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Asakura, 2k</span>** – Director of the Mitsubishi Research Insitute in Director of President Eco and Energy Corp (Kengo, 5/15/2000, Oil & Gas Journal, “Trans-Korean gas pipeline could help Asia energy security, environmental problems” l/n) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Trans-Korea line</span> pluses Regarding … make the greater concept of an "Asian energy community" come true. </span>


**Extinction**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Diner 94</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Military Law Review Winter 1994 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161 LENGTH: 30655 words ARTICLE: THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO'S ENDANGERING WHOM? NAME: MAJOR DAVID N. DINER BIO: Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army.) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [*173] </span><span class="Underline">Biologically diverse ecosystems …<span style="background-color: yellow;"> be edging closer to the abyss.</span> </span>



<span class="Underline">**Contention 3: We dare you to go for deterrence** </span>

**Plan prompts South Korean conventional force modernization which allows it to deter Chinese aggression**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bandow, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">South Korea’s foreign minister reports that Washington plans to guarantee his nation’s defense against a nuclear-armed North Korea in writing. The promise reportedly will be formalized when South Korean President Lee Myung-bak visits the United States this week. It’s a bad idea. </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Washington …**Washington of any need to intervene**</span>**.**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Most important, America should not reflexively extend its “nuclear umbrella” in response to the future possibility of a nuclear North Korea. Doing so would inevitably deepen American involvement in regional controversies, potentially turning every local dispute into an international crisis. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan makes China peaceful[[#LastEdit]]** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bandow, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">So Washington should exhibit humility about its ability to force change. As Secretary Clinton observed, “We have to continue to press them. But our pressing on those issues can’t interfere” with cooperation on other issues. Ultimately a positive relationship with Beijing is more likely to lead to a more liberal China. The result is not foreordained, but as always engagement offers the better bet. The United States shouldn’t hesitate to promote its ideals, but it must recognize its limits in enforcing them. </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Washington also should look on …<span style="background-color: yellow;">if America and the PRC</span> prove willing to <span style="background-color: yellow;">accommodate each other’s economic and geopolitical ambitions</span>. </span>



**The Korean crisis is crushing U.S. global credibility and creating tensions with allies**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bandow, 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (Summer 2003, Doug, Parameters, “Ending the Anachronistic Korea Commitment,” [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/parameters/03summer/bandow.htm]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the risks of war …</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">if Pyongyang does not desist</span>.__





==1AC Emory+Harvard== 
__Plan__
The United States federal government should end close to all of United States’ naval presence in Japan. 


THE ADVANTAGE IS CHINA

__Scenario One__ – Naval Miscalculation

**<span style="color: black; font-variant: normal ! important;">the Chinese development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-variant: normal ! important;">Yoshihara 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-variant: normal ! important;">(Dr. Toshi, //Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University,// 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) [[http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html]])</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">defense analysts in the U</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">S</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates...</span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; font-variant: normal; line-height: 19px;">against Beijing's emerging missile strategy.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold'; font-variant: normal ! important;">And – U.S. naval presence in Japan guarantees catastrophe in the Miyako Islands – it will collapse vital sea lanes of communication </span>**
**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">Crowell 9/21 (</span>**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">Todd Crowell, //Senior Writer for// //Asiaweek, writes for Christian Science Monitor, Asia Wallstreet, and is the Japanese correspondent for Asia Sentinal,// 9-21-10, Japan’s Undefended Southern Flank, __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2707&Itemid=164%29DR|http://asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2707&Itemid=164)DR]]</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">nuclear-powered attack submarine //USS Hawaii// arrived...</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;">Ming Dynasty "prove" that these islands are really Chinese territory and occupy them?</span>



**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">The collapse of SLOCs would collapse East Asian economies </span>**
**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">Guoxing 2 – </span>**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">(Ji, //professor and director of the Marine Policy Project of the Pacific Rim Research Center at Shanghai Jiaotong University,// April 2002, Asian Pacific SLOC Security: The China Factor, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.navy.gov.au/w/images/Working_Paper_10.pdf]]</span>)DR </span>

__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shipping routes are the life lines of the Asian Pacific...</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;">in the port of Singapore.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">East Asian economic collapse brings down the global economy </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">Murphy ‘9 – </span>**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">(R. Taggart, </span></span>//<span style="color: black; font-variant: normal ! important;">a former investment banker, is Professor in the MBA Program in International Business at the University of Tsukuba’s Tokyo campus and an Asia-Pacific Journal coordinator, </span>////<span style="color: black; font-style: normal; font-variant: normal ! important;">6-22-09, </span>//<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-R_Taggart-Murphy/3175]]</span>)DR </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Here is where Napier becomes very interesting... </span></span><span style="font-size: 15.6px;">may afflict these countries.</span>


**<span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">The impact is global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="background-color: silver; font-variant: normal ! important;">O’Donnell, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-variant: normal ! important;"> (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” <span style="color: black;">http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III</span> ) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Could the current economic crisis affecting this country and...</span><span style="font-size: 15.6px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">sometimes history repeats itself.</span>__</span>


**Scenario Two __– CCP / PLA Conflict__**


**Relations between the U.S. and China remain at an uneasy stalemate. Soon, however, Xi will replace Hu creating a unique moment to alter the relationships’ current trajectory**

**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">NYT, 1/24</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">/2011 (New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/24/world/asia/24leader.html?src=twrhp)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hu</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Jintao</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of China </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">returned home...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;">Harvard, under a pseudonym. </span>


And – Massive U.S. naval presence in Japan is fueling a power struggle within China between the Communist Party and the People’s Liberation Army. Perceived naval containment allows the PLA to expand their influence in Chinese internal decision-making, which poses a unique risk as Xi rises to power. U.S. naval presence guarantees a collision-course between the CCP and the PLA that will collapse Chinese social stability. Only the plan quells the nationalism of military hardliners while also pushing Xi in a moderate direction.

<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Chinese Defense Mashup 1/19</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">/2011 (China’s Military Raises Its Voice, http://www.china-defense-mashup.com/chinas-military-raises-its-voice.html) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The J-20 test flight shone a light on </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">China's strategic concerns...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;">its own and making its interests heard more clearly. How this balance plays out will be tremendously significant. </span>


And – Collapse of the delicate relationship between the CCP and the PLA guarantees mass social instability in China

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Li, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Nan, Professor at the Center for Naval Warfare Studies, China Maritime Studies, Chinese Civil-Military Relations in the Post-Deng Era, January, http://www.usnwc.edu/Research---Gaming/China-Maritime-Studies-Institute/Publications/documents/China-Maritime-Study-No-4-January-2010.aspx) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, and in contrast to foreign-policy cases...</span><span style="font-size: 9.6px; line-height: 14px;">and international peacekeeping)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">And – Implosion goes nuclear – it draws in India, the U.S., Britain, and China and it is the highest probability scenario for global nuclear exchange</span>**

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 28px;">**Klintworth 94 (this card is a pdf, if you need it send me an email)**</span>


And – Break-down of Chinese civil-military relations will cause militaristic PLA hardliners to control the party

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The Guardian, 1/13</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">/2011 (In China, Is The Gun Beginning To Command The Party?, http://latestchina.com/article/?rid=27494) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">One of </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the greatest concern</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">s...</span><span style="font-size: 15.6px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">about the stealth jet's test flight is merely the latest in a series of such incidents</span><span style="font-variant: normal ! important;">.</span></span>


And – PLA control guarantees short-term invasion of Taiwan

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Scobell and Wortzel, 2006</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Andrew, Associate Research Professor at the Strategic Studies Institute, U.S. Army War College, Adjunct Professor of Political Science at Dickinson College, SSI Specialist on Asia-Pacific Security, Larry M., Vice President for Foreign Policy and Defense Studies at the Heritage Foundation, Shaping China’s Security Environment: The Role of the People’s Liberation Army, October, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub709.pdf) </span>

**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The near-term goal for the PLA is to...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-variant: normal ! important;">China’s military power for the sake of objectives arising out of an assertive nationalism.</span>__** </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">And </span>–<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> Escalation is guaranteed. The impact is extinction </span>

<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Straits Times, 2000</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (June 25) </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> high-intensity</span> <span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">scenario postulates...</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.6px;">see the destruction of civilisation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.6px; font-variant: small-caps; line-height: 22px;">And – PLA control guarantees multiple other scenarios for Asian conflict including border wars with Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.6px;">ECONOMIST 95 (also pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.6px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.6px;">Ogura and Oh 97 (also pdf) </span>



==1AC UT== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 1 is US-Japan Relations </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rising public opposition in Japan to US naval presence is straining the relationship – a substantial reduction of presence is critical to lay the foundation for the future of the U.S.-Japan alliance</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> <span style="background-color: silver;">Shorrock 10/4</span>/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2010 (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.ipsnewsasia.net/bridgesfromasia/node/21]]</span>, “Public Pressure to Shape US Military presence in Region) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A combination of <span style="background-color: silver;">public opposition and financial instability is creating pressures </span>…</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> shows that 42 percent support the new mission, while 46 percent are opposed. Said Kato: "This shows the people are not yet sure Japan should take on a military role." </span>
**And – U.S. Naval presence is a particularly volatile issue**
**McCurry 6 –** (Justin, //The Guardian,// 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan]]</span>)DR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decision to hand the sailor over to Japanese police so early in the .. 1995 brought tens of thousands of people on to the streets in protest. </span>

**And – Japanese public opposition matters – the formation of new Japanese foreign policy guarantees that public opposition will translate into action**
**Mereand 9 –** (Richard, //National Security Analyst with the Association with the United States Army’s (AUSA’s) Institute of Land Warfare,// 12-29-09, The Evolution of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf]]</span>)DR
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) seems to have finally tapped into …</span>__<span style="background-color: silver;"> can strongly assert Japan’s will</span>__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3</span>

**And – the U.S.-Japan alliance is unsustainable as long as the Japanese people see their country as a base for U.S. adventurism, the plan is key**
**Blumenthal No Date –** (Dan, //Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research//, The Revival of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027]]</span>)DR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__<span style="background-color: silver;">the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>nited <span style="background-color: silver; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates <span style="background-color: silver;">cannot take </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for Tokyo's independent strategic concerns. </span>

**And – These political tensions jeopardize the effectiveness of the alliance**
**Kyodo News International 9/16/**2010 (“FOCUS, Progress in US-Japan Relations hinge on Kan’s leadership”, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://newsystocks.com/news/3697375]]</span>)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Naoto <span style="background-color: silver;">Kan's victory in</span> Tuesday's … **<span style="background-color: silver;">''If it's a divided ruling party and a divided Diet, then I don't think that there's any expectation that there's a good policy outcome,</span> whether it's diplomacy or otherwise**.' </span>__




**And –relations are key to Asian stability – prevents multiple nuclear conflicts throughout Asia**
**INSS 2k** (Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University, //The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership//, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, … Efforts to experiment with new concepts of international security have proceeded fitfully, but without discernable results in redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties. </span>


**Advantage 2 is Great Power Conflict**

**US naval presence in Japan will escalate into great power conflicts with China and Russia**
**Rozoff 11/4 –** (Rick, //author and geopolitical analyst,// 11-4-10, Washington-Tokyo Axis: U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21769]])DR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a six-day span </span>__<span style="background-color: silver;">the U.S.</span> State Department <span style="background-color: silver;">has</span> bluntly <span style="background-color: silver;">affirmed unequivocal </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> days of the Cold War half a century ago, for all the world appearing to prepare for a replication of the Taiwan Strait Crises of the 1950s, though now in an Asia with several nuclear powers. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll isolate two scenarios: </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First is US-China War </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Chinese development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yoshihara 10</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Dr. Toshi, //Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University,// 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) [[http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html]])</span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">defense analysts in the U</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">S</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">tates</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">have substantially revised their …</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> partnership, both politically and militarily, against Beijing's emerging missile strategy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And – That causes Extinction</span>. 

<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Straits Times, </span>____<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif;">2k</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (June 25) </span></span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: silver; font-weight: normal;">Conflict</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on such a scale </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: silver; font-weight: normal;">would embroil other countries</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">far and near </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: silver; font-weight: normal;">and</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- horror …. Gen Ridgeway said that </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">should that come to pass, <span style="background-color: silver;">we would see the destruction of civilisation</span></span></span>**<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold';">And – U.S. naval presence in Japan guarantees catastrophe in the Miyako Islands – it will collapse vital sea lanes of communication </span>**
**Crowell 9/21 (**Todd Crowell, //Senior Writer for// //Asiaweek, writes for Christian Science Monitor, Asia Wallstreet, and is the Japanese correspondent for Asia Sentinal,// 9-21-10, Japan’s Undefended Southern Flank, __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2707&Itemid=164%29DR|http://asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2707&Itemid=164)DR]]</span>__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="background-color: silver;">nuclear-powered attack submarine //USS Hawaii// arrived</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> earlier this … back to the Ming Dynasty "prove" that these islands are really Chinese territory and occupy them?</span>

**The collapse of SLOCs would collapse the East Asian economy.**
**Guoxing 2 –** (Ji, //professor and director of the Marine Policy Project of the Pacific Rim Research Center at Shanghai Jiaotong University,// April 2002, Asian Pacific SLOC Security: The China Factor, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.navy.gov.au/w/images/Working_Paper_10.pdf]]</span>)DR

__<span style="background-color: silver;">Shipping routes are the life lines of the Asian Pacific </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than today. Singapore is the world’s largest trans-shipment port. More than 330 shipping lines now operate services through Singapore to 610 ports in 130 countries. At any time there are about 800 ships in the port of Singapore. </span>
<span class="Underline">**The East Asian economy is key to the global economy.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Murphy ‘9 –** (R. Taggart, </span>//<span style="color: black;">a former investment banker, is Professor in the MBA Program in International Business at the University of Tsukuba’s Tokyo campus and an Asia-Pacific Journal coordinator, </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-style: normal;">6-22-09, </span>//<span style="color: blue;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-R_Taggart-Murphy/3175]]</span>)DR

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here is where Napier becomes very interesting to readers of Asia Pacific Journal. For he goes on …</span><span style="background-color: silver;">and global wealth that will see “the east” emerge with its power</span> and clout greatly enhanced, whatever current difficulties may afflict these countries. </span>

**Global nuclear war**
**<span style="background-color: silver;">O’Donnell, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” <span style="color: black;">http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III</span> ) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Could the current economic crisis affecting this country and the world lead to another world war? The answer may be found …</span>__<span style="background-color: silver;"> War III is averted.</span> However sometimes history repeats itself.__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Shambaugh, 5</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter) </span></span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: silver; font-weight: normal;">Some</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> observers </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the United States, however, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: silver; font-weight: normal;">see China’s Asian </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not based on coercion or territorial expansionism.98 </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs. </span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Two – Russia </span>**
**US-Russian war is the most probable scenario for extinction**
**<span style="background-color: silver;">Bostrom</span>** **<span style="background-color: silver;">2</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with …</span> __for instance, <span style="background-color: silver;">is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">or thwart</span> __<span style="background-color: silver;">humankind</span>__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 4pt;">’s</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> potential </span>__<span style="background-color: silver;">permanently</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>



**Text: The United States federal government should remove nearly all of its naval presence from Japan.**




==1AC - new China Impact - Glenbrooks== 

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">U.S.-Chinese cooperation is critical to prevent aquaculture eutrophication which destroys marine biodiversity in the ocean </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Pellerin ‘05 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cheryl, Staff – Washington File, US Dept State, 4-15, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-indent: 0.5in;">http://usinfo.state.gov/eap/Archive/2005/Apr/15-909210.html) </span>
<span class="UnderlineCharChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Cooperation </span>has <span style="background-color: yellow;">benefited both countries</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Eppi said</span><span class="UnderlineCharChar">,...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">help China deal with coastal health and water-quality issues. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The impact is extinction </span>**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davidson,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist,</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2003 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51)</span>
<span class="MinimizeChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But surely the...</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">of the sea. Of the thirty-three higher-level groupings of animals (called phyla), thirty-two are found in the oceans and just twelve on land.</span>


==1AC Chinhae Adv - Glenbrooks== 

**Chinhae is the centerpiece of the US submarine presence in East Asia**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Buensucesco 9-23</span>-2010** ( Christian, Commander of Submarine Group 7 Public Affairs, [[http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=56141]])

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The</span> Los Angeles-class ...____commissioned Feb. 16, 1996.__

**Chinhae sustains US submarine based containment of China – escalates to the development of attack-class submarines and an East Asian Naval Arms Race.**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Chinese Military 9-26</span>****-2010** (Asia-Pacific U.S. military will deploy new nuclear submarines, to contain China Navy, [[http://www.comhaha.com/blog/559110-asia-pacific-us-military-will-deploy-new-nuclear-submarines-to-contain-china-navy/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Asia-Pacific U.S. military ...</span>__12 vertical missile launch tubes), while carrying eight "Tomahawk" missiles, 4 "Harpoon" missiles and 14 mk48 anti-submarine torpedoes____<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. </span>__

**Chinhae is key – it’s the only feasible base in East Asia**
**Takai 9** (Mitsuo, “ Debate over US nuclear weapons in Japan”, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/19/debate_over_us_nuclear_weapons_in_japan/4012/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But American officials did not take it as a ...</span> __southern Japan just a stone’s throw away.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations. </span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">Strait Times 9</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-variant: normal ! important; font-weight: normal;"> (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3) </span></span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A naval arms race</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">could have catastrophic consequences</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is developing ...</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> probability of accidents</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and incidents at sea." </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: normal ! important;">Dibb, 1</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-variant: normal ! important; font-weight: normal;">(Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP://WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)// </span></span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-weight: normal;">areas of maximum danger</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> and instability ...</span></span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> ineffective when confronted with major crises</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//


//**This is a separate internal link to China war.**//
//**Shipman and Bouchard 7** (Tim and Chad, “China is accused of fuelling Pacific Arms Race”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/1547296/China-is-accused-of-fuelling-Pacific-arms-race.html]])//

//__A report published by the Australian Strategic ...____<span style="background-color: yellow;"> escalated into something that was very unforeseen".</span>__//


==//1AC - St. Marks//== 

[[#_Toc271807915]]
//The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Times Record, 10</span>__ (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2, http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt)</span>//
//I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to __…__ on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.//


//And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jeju Weekly, 9</span>__ (November 26, http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426)</span>//
//Some of __Jeju’s treasures are__ clearly visible, …. It is not just __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">imperative</span>__ for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.//


//And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Red Orbit, 10</span>__ (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26, http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/)</span>//
//__Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …__ who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."//
//And – Extinction//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Craig, 3</span>__ (Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)</span>//
//Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …<span class="underline0"> wherever possible </span>- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.//

//And – The Jeju base will trigger an uncontrollable naval arms race throughout the Asia-Pacific region ensuring conflict.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Cha 10</span>__ (Kyoungeun, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of … could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region.</span>__//
//And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Strait Times 9</span>__ (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A naval arms race</span>__ that __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">could have </span>____…__, he warned: __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">"The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents</span>__ and