[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**DUE PROCESS AC**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">OBSERVATION ONE: Charged means the time between indictment and conviction or acquittal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"To make an...in the indictment"</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Value: Justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">VC: maintaining consistency with the law</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CONTENTION 1: The juvenile ustice system is unable to protect due process.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Although the right...from public scrutiny."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"forty years after...in resources remain."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"By most accounts...to receive services."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Perhaps the most...look as follows."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JURIES AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Value: Justice</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> VC: maintaining consistency with the constitution</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Legitimacy of legal system must come from political discourse, not moral philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The same reason...on moral discourse"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Must recognize procedural obligations of various actors. It is the supreme court's duty to strike down laws inconsistent with the constitution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (), 1 Cranch 137, p. 175-177. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. The rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy because protection of autonomy empowers legal subjects to use public autonomy in democratic process, which legitimizes the law</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "However well grounded...over its counterpart"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The constitution thus constructs the medium of law itself. And, the supreme court is structurally responsible for upholding the obligation.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. Using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> THUS, THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The U.S. Supreme Court will overturn its decision in McKeiver v. Pennsylvaniaas as it applies to topically designated persons on the grounds that the 6th amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees the right to trial by jury for those juveniles.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CONTENTION ONE: The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The McKeiver decision assigned constitutional rights based on arbitrary classifications of age, and the distinctino of juvenile trials as civil while adult trials as criminal is misguided because:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> a. supreme court precedent indicates there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]>. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "since the 1980's...criminal history score"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION TWO: Trial by jury is required by the ‘fundamental fairness’ test for the 14th amendment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even the majority opinion in McKeiver concedes that the appropriate standard for determining what procedures are required for juveniles by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment is “fundamental fairness.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528 (1971), p. 543. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "All the litigants..are not inflexible"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Trial by jury is the only way to protect the fundamental fairness of criminal proceedings.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. the ability to choose a jury checks back for bias in a way that doesn’t exist with judges.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ([[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of [[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]] at [[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]] and [[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]].]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "in addition the...a bench trial"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. judge trials hurt defendants chances to appeal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ([[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of [[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]] at [[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]] and [[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]].]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Denial of the...law on appeal"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. The possibility of a jury trial improves the fairness of the charging decision and checks the power imbalance in plea negotiations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth [Professor, Seattle University School of Law]. “Youth Justice in a Unified Court: Response to Critics of Juvenile Court Abolition.” 1995. Boston College Law Review. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. P. 943</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nor can the...possesses as leverage."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4.Trial by judges perverts the “reasonable doubt” standard, makes conviction easier, and warps the judicial process.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Although the right...from public scrutiny."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">5. Unlike juries, judges may be biased by knowledge of a defendant’s criminal history.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Victor Streib [Professor of Law, Ohio Northern University; and Senior Lecturing Fellow, Duke Law School], “Intentional Wrongful Conviction of Children,” Chicago-Kent Law Review, Vol. 85:1 (2010), pp 172. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"There is a...encountering these pressures."</span>

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**COMPETENCY NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">S: Respecting Competency to stand trial</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Competency to stand trial is a fundamental right.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Elizabeth S. Scott[University of Virginia School of Law] and Thomas Grisso [University of Massachusetts Medical Center] “Developmental Incompetence, Due Process and Juvenile Justice Policy.” 2004. University of Virginia Law School.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"It is generally...to stand trial."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I contend that juveniles are not competent to stand trial.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, juveniles lack multiple markers of competency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Our results indicate...ethnicity or SES."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If juveniles are immature, then they are incompetent to stand trial. This is consistent with Supreme Court precedent.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The issue that...for criminal adjudication."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"We believe that...rationally with counsel."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**RECIDIVISM NC**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">S: Minimizing suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I ask the...as a burden."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[1] R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I shall not...being a reason."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Only preference satisfaction is universal and prescriptive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford].Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I contend that punishing juveniles in the adult court system increases recidivism.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"studies have found...the short run."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Experts (see Bazemore...and community reintegreation."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Recidivism has four impacts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The effects of...cannot be understood."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Moreover, Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Juveniles in adult...even more violent."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**T: CHARGED**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: “Charged” means the time before and during trial.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Field Context</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dictionary.com, The Hot Word—5 November 2010. [Blog published by dictionary.com, not random people. Updated daily with interesting information about the meaning of various words and phrases]. What’s the exact difference between being “charged,” “convicted,” and “sentenced” for a crime?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Today, former oakland...while appeals occur."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Equitable division of ground</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Vote on fairness.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Topicality is especially important.</span>



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]