[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">Observation 1: Inherency

Despite Attempts to Move the Marines to a Mutually Acceptable Location
– the Futenma Basing Issue Will Cause Widespread Public Animosity
Resulting in a November Showdown

Ennis 2k10
(Peter, “Gates and Japan,” pg online @ <span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/08/gates-and-japan|http://www.dispatchjapan.com/
blog/2010/08/gates-and-japan]]</span>. html
ghs-ef)

What does this have to … is not needed after all


Observation Two: Mo’ Bases Mo’ Problems

First, Japanese Public Discord is running high over Futenma –
Currently it is focused on the Domestic Front, but failure to resolve
the issue will spill-over and be displaced on the U.S. threatening ALL
U.S. bases in Japan

Sneider 6/3
(Daniel Sneider is the associate director for research at the Walter
H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, He
currently directs the center's project on Nationalism and Regionalism
and the Divided Memories and Reconciliation project, Slate Magazine,
“Did Washington Bring Down the Japanese Prime Minister?,” pg
nexisghs-ef)

In March, I found myself standing on the white sand of the beach-lined
shores of Oura Bay in northern Okinawa, ……………….each other. It is a
good question


Moreover, Hanging onto Futenma Causes Public Discord that Spills-Over
without the Plan – We’ll Lose All our Facilities including Kadena

O’Hanlon 2k1
(Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy
at the Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to
Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” pg online @
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspxghs-ef|http://www.brookings.edu/ articles/2001/ 0301forceandlegitimacy_ ohanlon.aspx
ghs-ef]]</span>)
Ending the Occupation Legacy …………………..the normalization of Japanese
security policy.



And, We’ll Isolate Two Scenarios:

First, is Air Power –Kadena is a Strategic Necessity – it’s key to Air
Power and Essential for Training Missions

Axe 2k7
(David, David Axe is a military correspondent living in Washington,
D.C. Since 2005 he has reported from Iraq, Lebanon, East Timor,
Afghanistan and Somalia. He is a regular contributor to Wired, The
Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, among many other outlets
“Fortress Hubs,” Defense Technology International, pg nexisghs-ef)

Indeed, the linchpin bases for U.S. Pacific ………………out of the fight"
due to the distance.



And, SPEED is Essential – Air Power Must Be Quick to Stop Crisis
Escalation in Southeast Asia and the South China Sea

Tellis et al ‘98
(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in
South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney
Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf|http://www.rand.org/pubs/ monograph_reports/MR897/MR897. chap3.pdf]]</span>
ghs-ef)

The second key implication derived from the analysis
………………………………..lift and airborne tanker support.


And, the South China Sea is a Critical Flashpoint – Miscalculation and
Lack of Communication Makes the Risk of Escalation High

The Global Post 6/27
(“South China Sea: The coming war?,” pg online @
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-militaryghs-ef|http://www.globalpost.com/ dispatch/china/100625/south- china-sea-paracel-spratly- islands-military
ghs-ef]]</span>)

TAIPEI, Taiwan — It's a 3.5 million-square kilometer ………………. it's
getting crowded underwater."

And, Conflict in the South China Sea draws in major powers and causes
World War Three

Waldron ‘97
(Arthur, Prof Strategy and Policy – Naval War College, Commentary,
3-1, <span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp|http://www.aei.org/ publications/pubID.7442, filter.all/pub_detail.asp]]</span>)
Then there is Southeast Asia, …………………Russia, or India, or Japan--or
the United States.


And, it goes nuclear

Nikkei Weekly ’95
(7-3, Lexis)

Mahathir sees Asia developing in three possible ways in future.
…………………..nuclear, war.



Scenario 2 is China – Kadena is the Centerpiece of U.S. Deterrence in
the Region – Chinese Perceptions of U.S. Power Rest with Kadena– Loss
of this Capability Causes Quick Chinese Invasion of Taiwan – Only
Kadena ensures Cooperative U.S.-China Relations

Ross 2k2
(Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate
of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard
University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait:
Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations,” ghs-ef)

Fait Accompli Strategies and the Taiwan Strait Deterrence……………. by
Taiwan's defense minister in March 2002. 94


A War Over the Strait Goes Nuclear

Hunkovic, American Military University 2k9
[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a
Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”,
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf|http://www.lamp-method.org/ eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]

A war between China, Taiwan ………………………not be considered in this study.


Last, Strong U.S. – Sino relations and cooperation prevents
extinction. Cooperation is the only way to solve economic stability,
terrorism, crime, prolif, and disease spread.

Wenzhong, PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2K4
(Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative
Relationship Between China and the United States,”
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm|http://china-japan21.org/eng/ zxxx/t64286.htm]]</span>)
China's development needs ……………………in China-US relations.


And, the Plan Preserves Kadena while not hurting our strategic
deterrent – we should bring the Marines home

Mochizuki AND O’Hanlon 2k9
(Mike Mochizuki, is Associate Dean of the Elliott School of
International Affairs at George Washington University and holds the
Japan-US Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur. Michael O’Hanlon,
Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the
Brookings Institution, is author of The Science of War, “Refocusing
the U.S.-Japan Alliance: It's Not Just About an Air Base,” pg online @
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1218_us_japan_ohanlon.aspxghs-ef|http://www.brookings.edu/ opinions/2009/1218_us_japan_ ohanlon.aspx
ghs-ef]]</span>)

For nearly 15 years, the two largest …………..Japan is not doing so.

Observation Three is Defense Integration

First, Despite a Japanese Pledge to Engage in Missile Defense
Developments, Budget Shortages have forced cuts – Japan has been
forced to freeze Missile Defense Funding and Delay Launching Systems

AFP 12/19/2k9
(“Japan to halt new missile defence spending: media,” pg nexisghs-ef)

Japan's centre-left government will ………………completion by early 2011.


And, the plan creates the perfect compromise – removing the marines
from Okinawa would solve the alliance and free up funds for Japan to
commit to Missile Defense

O’Hanlon ‘98
(Michael, “How to Be a Cheap Hawk: The 1999 and 2009 Defense Budgets,”
pg ghs-ef)

The Okinawa Marines This is the …………….in the future as is there now.


And, Missile Defense is the Key Integration Element – Will Ensure
U.S.-Japanese Defense Integration, Planning and Interoperability

Blumenthal 2k5
(Dan, Dan Blumenthal is a resident fellow at AEI, “The Revival of the
U.S.-Japanese Alliance,” pg online @ <span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027ghs-ef|http://www.aei.org/outlook/ 22027
ghs-ef]]</span>)

Plugging into Missile Defense. …………………U.S. ally, or at the U.S. homeland.


And, Changing U.S.-Japanese Defense Coop to include a Cross-Flow of
dual use High Technology Solves U.S. Innovation, Manufacturing,
Economy, and Protects IPR

Bloch 97
(Erich, National Research Council, Maximizing U.S. Interests in
Science and Technology Relations with Japan, Committee on Japan
Framework Statement and Report of the Competitiveness Task Force,
National Research Council, ghs-ef)
LONG-TERM U.S. INTERESTS AT STAKE Future U……………., and issues for
possible future study.



And, U.S. Rate of Innovation, Technological Development and R&D MUST
Keep Pace to Develop Products Technology and Solutions to Solve
Collapse of the Global Biosphere

Barker 2k
(BRENT is manager of corporate communications, having earlier served
as manager of strategic and executive communications and for12 years
as the Journal's editor-in-chief, Technology and the Quest for
Sustainability, EPRI Journal, pg nexisghs-ef)

Sustainability has ………………everywhere in the world. Thatfuture begins now.


Observation Four is Containment

Current Marine deployments in Okinawa creates the perception in China
that we are preparing for a land war with them – It increases their
perception of being boxed in militarily.

Mochizuki, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur
at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington
University, 3-17-96 (Mike, “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent
an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington
Post)

However, just because the symptoms ….chance of another crisis.



And, Not reducing Marine deployments in Japan ensures China will
perceive that we are trying to contain them – Causes an escalation of
tensions and conflict.

Bandow, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense
Alliance, a Senior Fellow at The Cato Institute, & former Special
Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 5-25-10 (Doug, “Engaging China
to Maintain Peace in East Asia,”
<span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845|http://www.cato.org/pub_ display.php?pub_id=11845]]</span>)

While the U.S. remains involved …. one of peace and stability.



Nuclear war

Hadar, Adjunct Scholar of the Cato Institute, 96 (Leon, Jan 26th, “The
Sweet-and-Sour Sino-Americna Relationship”, Cato Policy Analysis No.
428 <span style="color: #5c4520;">[[@http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-248.html|http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/ pa-248.html]]</span>)

The containment hawks and … launches a military invasion.(73)


Solvency changes depending on the round, we usually read preempts.
Always an ohanlon card</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]