[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
__//**SHACKLES AC:**//__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government ought to ban indiscriminate shackling policies in all federal, state, and local juvenile justice systems for juveniles who commit violent felonies. Procedures for physical restraint will be brought in line with the adult systems. I reserve the right to clarify implementation.</span>

<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;">Anita Nabha [J.D. Candidate, Brooklyn Law School, 2009; M.S., Columbia</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University School of Social Work, 2005; B.A., Amherst College, 2001]</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> “Why Children Should Not be Shackled” Brooklyn Law Review. 2008.</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Lexis-Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Juvenile Law Center. “Lessons from Luzerne County: Promoting Fairness,</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Transparency and Accountability Recommendations to the Interbranch</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Commission on Juvenile Justice” 2010.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Bernard P. Perlmutter [Assistant Professor of Clinical Legal Education</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University of Miami School of Law; Director of the Children & Youth</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Law Clinic.] “SYMPOSIUM ISSUE: IN RE GAULT: ARTICLE: "UNCHAIN THE</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING” Barry Law</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Review Fall, 2007. Lexis Nexis.</span>

William Spanos [Professor of English at Binghamton University], The
End of Education: Towards Posthumanism, 1993, p. 196.

L. Paul Strait (GMU) and Brett Wallace (GWU). “The Scope of Negative Fiat and the Logic of Decision Making.” WFU Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.

==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]