[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Japan Naval Forces AFF**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention 1: Inherency </span>
U.S. Naval presence in East Asia is staying 
James <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kraska</span></span>, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10 </span></span>(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span>, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)
China’s newly …<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> in Hainan.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Plan:</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government should eliminate its naval presence in Japan. </span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Advantage 1: The Dragon and the Eagle </span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Naval Crisis between the United States and China is inevitable Taiwan makes naval engagement likely </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Taiwan remains …over Taiwan.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Crisis over Japanese-Chinese territorial disputes makes naval intervention inevitable </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
Beyond Taiwan<span class="Emphasis2">…</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> first responders.</span></span>


<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, There’s a high risk of impact - Perception that U.S. Naval forces are constrained in central Asia coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate</span>
James <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kraska</span></span>, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10 </span></span>(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span>, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)
Fifth, <span class="Emphasis2">China …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> of sea power.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Hypernationalism guarantees nuclear use. </span>
Scott <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Moore</span></span>, Undergraduate Research Assistant, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, CNS, 10-18-<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span>, “Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat,” NTI, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html]]</span>
It thus …<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">nuclear weapons</span></span>.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Extinction</span>
Straits Times June 25 <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2000</span></span> “Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”
Will a full… everything else.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Removing U.S. Naval presence from Japan is critical to prevent miscalculation and escalation between U.S. and China - Chinese forces directly perceive Yokosuka </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Destruction of … operational thinking.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Advantage 2: The Assassins Mace </span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Presence of U.S. naval forces causes China to create anti access weapon systems to counteract U.S. naval superiority </span>
Andre <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Damon</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span> (“Pentagon report targets China as a military threat”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/jun2006/chin-j21.shtml]]</span>, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">A principal ... and Mongolia.</span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The DF-21D anti ship ballistic missile is a key component of this strategy </span></span>
James <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kraska</span></span>, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10 </span></span>(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span>, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">But China … is daunting.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Chinese conventional anti ship ballistic missiles like the DF-21D causes pressure on Congress to fund conventional trident missiles</span>
Craig <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Hooper</span></span> and Christopher <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Albon</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span> (“Get Off the Fainting Couch”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2010-04/get-fainting-couch]]</span>, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">By overlooking … two years.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Conventional tridents causes inadvertent nuclear war with Russia because their early warning systems can’t tell the difference between nuclear and conventional launch </span>
Dennis M. <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Gormley</span></span> (Senior Fellow at the Monterey Institute’s James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Washington, D.C. and a member of the faculty of the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh) Fall <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2009</span></span> “The Path to Deep Nuclear Reductions, Dealing With American Conventional Superiority,” Proliferation Papers, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/PP29_Gormley.pdf|www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/PP29_Gormley.pdf]]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Where does … Trident’s funding</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Escalation and retaliation is guaranteed-Dead Hand</span>
Bruce <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Blair</span></span> (Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, interviewed by Robert Siegle) October 8 <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1993</span></span> “Researcher Says Russians Have Nuclear Doomsday Device,” All Things Considered, NPR
ROBERT SIEGEL, Host: An article on … break-up.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Extinction </span>
Nick <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Bostrum</span></span> (Professor of Philosophy, Yale University) <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2002</span></span> “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards” www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html.
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">A …</span></span> the 21st century.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, We control the direction of uniqueness CTMs funding has been zeroed</span>
Elaine M. Grossman reporter with Global Security Newswire, Sept. 22, 2010.
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100922_3608.php-]]</span> accessed 10/13/10, JX
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Senate … in Pakistan. 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention 3: Solvency </span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Yokosuka is key China perceives the strategic nature of the base </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
It is clear,… in Japan.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Japan key—Chinese perceptions of Japan as being the only base capable of taking in a carrier task force makes removal key—Guam does not accede the same fears </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
The indispensability … for carriers.28

<span style="font-weight: normal;">U.S. Naval control in East Asia is ending removal now prevents conflict </span>
James <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kraska</span></span>, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10 </span></span>(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span>, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">While the …</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"> control in Asia.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, we’ll preempt you China war defense</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">First, Chinese military doctrine guarantees escalation </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
It is clear… theoretical vacuum.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, China will utilizes a deterrence via intimidation method to force Japan to kickout U.S. military forces in times of crisis </span>
Toshi <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Yoshihara, 2010</span></span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
One tactic … in Japan.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Economic interdependence does not prevent war—American Saber rattlers will call for war to </span>
Andre <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Damon</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span> (“Pentagon report targets China as a military threat”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/jun2006/chin-j21.shtml]]</span>, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This formulation …</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"> world war.</span>


**Target Assassination Forces AFF**

**Contention 1 is inherency**
**U.S. special forces will still be present DESPITE the troop withdrawal**
**UPI 10** (4/2/10, “U.S. Special Forces staying in Iraq”, http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2010/04/02/US-Special-Forces-staying-in-Iraq/UPI-89491270224785/RA) The number of U.S. Special Forces... commander of U.S. Central Command, and Army Gen. Ray Odierno, the top U.S. commander in Iraq) is that the special operations forces will be sustained at about their current level," he said. 

**In status quo assassinations go unchecked and the United States abuses its power in the UN to justify questionable uses of force and avoid criticism by the international community**
**Roma 2’** (Amy C., “Assassinations: Executive Orders and World Stability” 2002 Suffolk University Suffolk University Law Review MJB) 
More than any other country, the United States has tended to assert sophisticated legal justifications in an attempt to legitimize public action of aggression.... The United States has increasingly used unilateral action as a pre-emptive force against a perceived aggressor, justified that use of force through Article 51, and then vetoed a Security Council resolution that would have condemned its action. n78 

**Plan**
The United States federal government should substantially reduce all target killing and assassination forces from Afghanistan. 

We’ll clarify 


**Contention 2 is Adventurism**
**Drones use leads to even more drone usage; slippery slope**
**Mayer 10** (Jane; investigative journalist for The New Yorker and Wall Street Journal, award winning author; “The Predator War: What are the risks of the C.I.A.’s covert drone program?”; October 26, 2009; http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2009/10/26/091026fa_fact_mayer#ixzz0rsb2Mhvw 
GM) 
Many lawyers who have looked at America’s drone program in... on military matters, said, “Are they going to target Karzai’s brother?” He went on, “We should be very careful about who we define as the enemy we have to kill. Leaders of Al Qaeda, of course. But you can’t kill people on Tuesday and negotiate with them on Wednesday.” 


**With robotic warfare, war becomes easy**
**Singer 2009** [Peter Warren Singer is an American Political Scientist and international relations scholar, he is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings institution, where he is the director of the 21st century Defense Initiative; “Robots at War: The New Battlefield’; Winter 2009; http://www.wilsonquarterly.com/article.cfm?aid=1313; 6/29/2010; K.C.] 
Lawrence J. Korb is one of the deans of Washington’s defense policy establishment.... public’s perceptions of events on distant battlefields create pressures on elected leaders. Too much pressure can lead an elected leader to try to interfere in ongoing operations, as bad an idea in war as it would be in sports for the fans to call in the plays for their favorite team. But, as Korb and Hooker explain, too little public pressure may be worse. It’s the equivalent of no one even caring about the game or its outcome. War becomes the WNBA. 

**Unmanned technology leads to more wars**
**Singer 2009** [Peter Warren Singer is an American Political Scientist and international relations scholar, he is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings institution, where he is the director of the 21st century Defense Initiative; “Robots at War: The New Battlefield’; Winter 2009; http://www.wilsonquarterly.com/article.cfm?aid=1313; 6/29/2010; K.C.] 
Such changed connections don’t just make a public less likely to wield its veto power over its elected leaders. As Lawrence Korb observed, they also alter the ... military thinks that it will allow them to nip things in the bud, deal with the bad guys earlier and easier, rather than having to get into a big-ass war. But the most likely thing that will happen is that we’ll be throwing a bunch of high tech against the usual urban guerillas . . .. It will stem the tide [of U.S. casualties], but it won’t give us some asymmetric advantage.” Thus, robots may entail a dark irony. By appearing to lower the human costs of war, they may seduce us into more wars. 

**Adventurism escalates to great power nuclear wars**
Eugene **Gholz and** Daryl G. **Press** (doctoral candidates in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and Harvey M. Sapolsky (Professor of Public Policy and Organization in the Department of Political Science at M.I.T. and Director of the M.I.T. Defense and Arms Control Studies (DACS) Program Spring **1997** “come home America – the strategy of restraint in the face of temptation” International Security, Vol. 21, No. 4 
The larger long-term cost of selective engagement is ... of other country’s disputes.79 An Indo-Pakistani nuclear war would be a terrible thing, but it makes no sense to get in the middle. Distant wars would be costly, but not nearly as costly as the solution that selective engagers propose. 

**Contention 3 is Virilio**
**The attempt to use targeted killing to hunt down rogues relies on two deadly assumptions: 1. That we know who the bad guys are 2. That usable, fast, conventional response deters better. The result is the normalization of preemption as the preferable strategy of war.**
**Goh ’06** [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/] 
The articulation of wait cannot be more urgent today.... immanent fact of common freedom by denying them the right to partake of that common. But consensus does not open a space for such a gesture. Instead, according to Rancière, consensus is only "the dissolution of all political differences and juridical distinctions," the "erasing [of] the contestatory, conflictual nature of the very givens of common life" (Rancière 2004:8/7). It would only be in the spirit of democracy to disagree with the consensus, the consensus of the preemptive in all its forms. 


**Preemption must be rejected in all forms to break the rising consensus on speed and preemptive war. The Aff creates democratic resistance and the possibility to generate new norms.**
**Goh ’06** [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/] 
The fact remains that the victim of the London police preemptive shooting had no link to terror—had no intent of terror. (neither had the victim of the Miami shooting.) ...the introduction of previously uncounted objects and subjects" (like that of the assemblage of wrong) (Ranciére 2004:7). As Ranciére says, disagreement is "the invention of a question that no one was asking themselves until then" (1999:33). The time of invention of a question in disagreement with the preemptive is none other than but now. 


**We must shatter the silence around drones for it is in secrecy that they can function.**
**Virilio 84** (author and cultural critic, Paul, War and Cinema: The Logistics of Perception)

If I had to sum up current thinking on precision missiles and saturation weaponry in a single sentence,' said W.J. Perry, a former US Under-Secretary of State for Defense, 'I'd put it like this: once you can see the target, you can expect to destroy it.'


**Contention 4 is Solvency**
**In the realm of military law, the courts can and do override the military’s and executive branch’s decisions, such was the case with Guantanamo**
**Welsh 04** (Steven, Jun 30, Research Analyst at Center for Defense Inst., http://www.cdi.org/news/law/gtmo-sct-decision.cfm) 
With a decision notably brief for the ... for violating the laws of war by a lawfully constituted tribunal. 

**The Court can rule on issues of military policy in the context of international law – Hamdan proves**
**Totenberg 6** (Nina 6.29.6 NPR http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=5520809) 
In a major rebuke to the Bush administration,... tribunals, we will work with them." 


**Supreme Court decisions are internationally modeled**
**MacDonald**, Justice on the European Court of Human Rights, **1992** (Robert, 86 A.J.I.L. 192, lexis) 
Influence can be traced through ... the duty to protect? 

We solve globally 
Jonathan 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Manes</span></span>, 6/12/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>**
(“U.N. and Human Rights Groups Challenge U.S. Use of Drones in Targeted Assassinations”, Manes is a legal fellow with the ACLU National Security project., google, accessed 6/25/10)-wey


...<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">the U.N. special representative on extrajudicial executions, called on the U.S. to use greater restraint in using unmanned drones to commit targeted assassinations of terrorism suspects...</span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]