[[toc]]
For further quals: [[mailto:sfdebate.117@gmail.com|sfdebate.117@gmail.com]] AND khyslinedebate@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN 1AC (Bustamante Classico)</span>== 
**Contention One is Inherency**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN is doomed to fail—insurgency and instability are inevitable for as long as we keep up the stratagey.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Raham 8/12 </span><span style="font-size: 90%;">(Dr S.M. Rahman is Secretary General FRIENDS, a Think Tank established by General Mirza Aslam Beg in Rawalpindi [[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/|Counter-Insurgency (COIN) Using Power or Prudence?]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">[[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/Donie|http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence///Donie]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism abhors power… Nazis’ holocaust against the Jews.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Therefore we offer the following plan: </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence engaged in counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> We’ll Clarify. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention Two is the Sorrows of Empire </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN will fail no mater what we do, the government has no credibility, this assures we will LOSE THE WAR. COIN commits the US to Afghanistan for 40 more years and independantly cripples readiness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Hirsh 6/24 </span><span style="font-size: 90%;">(Michael is the former Foreign Editor and chief diplomatic correspondent for Newsweek. He is currently a senior editor in the magazine's Washington bureau. “Replacing McChrystal Doesn’t Change Anything”</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html/Donnie|http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html//Donnie]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By replacing a general who was universally criticized…. has atrophied over the past 6 years.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN cripples US hegemony—it over reaches our military and prepares us for wars we won’t fight, devestating readiness.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Cohen 9 (</span><span style="font-size: 90%;"> Michael, was a Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation and ran the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative, which examined the growing influence and impact of non-state actors in U.S. foreign policy. “[[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/|Michael Cohen on The Trouble with Counter-Insurgency]]”</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;"> April 4. [[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/Donnie|http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency///Donnie]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As I’ve written before….. not a realistic or easily applicable military doctrine.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The risks to U.S. power from withdrawal are a myth - a continued heavy troop presence and protracted conflict in Afghanistan uniquely cripples U.S. power projection</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Innocent and Carpenter 09 (</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan; and Ted Galen Carpenter is vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 2009 – available at: [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper]])</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status…. undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We control uniqueness: U.S. presence in Afghanistan is unsustainable and fuels resentment at home and abroad while crippling the economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Petras 6/16 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">(Prof. James Petras, of Sociology at Binghamton University June 16, 2010, Afghanistan: The Longest Lost War,[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=19758//adam]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite almost a decade of warfare… decade long destructive occupation. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Escalating the conflict in Afghanistan results in massive military overstretch and cripples the economy—kills US heg</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Engelhardt 2010 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">[Tom, fellow at The Nation Institute, Teaching Fellow at the Graduate School of Journalism @ UC Berkeley, “Obama Starting to Sound Like Bush,” April 1, Mother Jones, [[http://www.motherjones.com/mojo/2010/04/obama-sounds-like-bush/]] Italics in original] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Starting with that bomber’s jacket….“folly” doesn’t come to mind, what does? </span>

**U.S.** hegem**ony and incites great power rivalries**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Layne 2009 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">[Christopher, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and Nat'l Security at the George H.W. Bush School of Gov't and Public Service @ Texas A&M U, "The Waning of U.S. Hegemony -- Myth or Reality?" International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer, MUSE] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. strategic retrenchment would…. hegemony overthrown by a similar process. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Readiness is key to heg—decline causes other powers to challenge the US</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Spencer 2k </span><span style="font-size: 90%;">(Jack , is the Research Fellow in Nuclear Energy Policy at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies. “The Facts About Military Readiness” Sep. 15</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness/Donnie|http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness//Donnie]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Military readiness is vital… interest, thereby preserving peace.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Ultimately, U.S. primacy is critical to preventing great power wars and maintaining world peace</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thayer 2006 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">[Bradley A., Assoc. Prof. Defense and Strategic Studies @ Mo. State U, “In Defense of Primacy,” in The National Interest, Nov/Dec, Proquest]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability…. war's worst form: great power wars.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention Three: Is Embrace the Bear</span>**

**Russia** i**s taking its sphere of influence back**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CSM 10 (5/20/10, The Christian Science Monitor, “</span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> is getting its 'sphere' back”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/the-monitors-view/2010/0520/Russia-is-getting-its-sphere-back) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In case you haven’t noticed, </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> is making progress in bringing former Soviet satellites closer to its orbit. last month extended the lease for </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">’s naval base in the Black Sea </span>port of Sevastopol<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> until 2042.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Military presence in </span>**Afghanistan**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> checks </span>**Russia**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">’s influence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stratfor 5 (Global Intelligence Think Tank, http://www.stratfor.com/memberships/156167/analysis/20100305_russias_expanding_influence_part_3_extras)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ultimately, however, the logic behind a lasting </span>U.S.<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> presence in </span>Afghanistan<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> would enhance </span>Washington<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">’s regional influence. </span>

**US﻿<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> deployment in </span>Afghanistan** checks Russi**an expansion**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Konurov 9 (Andrei, Russian Analyst for Strategic Culture Foundation, http://en.fondsk.ru/article.php?id=2439)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The </span>US<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> has above strategy can be implemented with the help of a network of isolated bases and does not require control over the entire </span>territory of Afghanistan<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Efforts to block Russian sphere of influence doom US-Russia relations and risks war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eland 8 [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But the bear is now coming out of a long hibernation a bit rejuvenatedwill only lead to unnecessary U.S.-Russian tension and possibly even cataclysmic war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Trying to prevent Russian expansion results in US–Russia nuclear war - Georgian conflict proves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carpenter 8 (Ted, PhD in </span>U.S.<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> diplomatic history, VP for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato Institute, 9/22/08, “What </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Wants” The American Conservative)</span>
Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">’s actions in </span>Georgia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> realize that </span>Washington<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> can no longer ignore, much less trample on, core Russian interests. The sooner they make that course correction, the better.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Russia war is the only existential risk – sheer magnitude of nuclear arsenals </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bostrom 2 (Nick, Faculty of Philosophy, </span>Oxford University<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A much greater existential risk emerged with Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S./Russian relations solve all other impacts – everything is easier with Russian cooperation and harder without it </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CFR Task Force 6 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “</span>RUSSIA<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO ,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the </span>United States<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> will be in a better position to protect that arrangement if relations with </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> are on a positive track.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention four is the flip side of the COIN</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The current mission is critically flawed - terrorism is inevitable – only withdrawal reduces recruiting and the incentive for large scale attacks </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hornberger 09 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, [[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“But the terrorists will follow us…. unconnected to terrorism in Afghanistan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Phased withdrawal solves all their turns—CT is key to overall stability in the region</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Stewart 09 (</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">professor at the Harvard Kennedy school of government, 09, a when testifying at congress, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]adam )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The greatest risk of our inflated…. long-term, less will be more. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterterrorism no links all of your turns- your authors will mistakenly perceive CT as withdrawal, but that’s backwards </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nelson 9 (</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;"> Rick Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C “The Other Side of the COIN” October 1 [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin/Donnie|http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin//Donnie]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Q2: So how should the United States…. any “all-in” approach would entail. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN is doomed—ethic backlash and history assure the US fail and leave no mater what </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hader 7/28/10 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">(Leon T., research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. He is the author of [[http://www.catostore.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&pid=1441262|Sandstorm: Policy Failure in the Middle East]], Cato Institute, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> But the COIN strategy that…. another for many years to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 5 is Civilian Deaths</span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN has a laundry list of problems.First COIN is histortically and inherently violent coercive and flawed. Next its an impossible strategy to implement in Afghanistan because of the corruption in the Afghan government and the distrust of the Afghan people. Finally, despite its intentions COIN is still violent and causes deaths of civilians; IRAQ proves. The best way to stop this is to avoid wars at all costs</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Cohen 12/25</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN’s presence is causing civilian deaths to sky rocket. When we declare that we will “protect the civilians” it causes insurgents to challenge us. That plus the the factors that prevent COIN from being successful lead to civilian deaths casued by US presence</span></span><span class="Emphasis2">. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The only logical thing to do is to withdrawl troops.</span>**</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyea 10</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"> (Keith Boyea is a graduate student at Georgetown University studying international affairs. He works as an analyst for the U.S. Army. All opinions expressed here are his own and not those of the Department of Defense. Keith is an Air Force veteran of OIF and OEF August 26 [[http://original.antiwar.com/boyea/2010/08/25/nobody-should-die-for-coin/]])</span>

**The end result of this disregard for life is the justification for Genocide - the affirmative’s challenge to this mindset s key to change current descriptions of enemies**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derek</span> **Gregory 2004,** Distinguished University Scholar And Professor Of Geography At The University Of British Columbia In Vancouver, [The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq, pp. 261-262]

<span class="Emphasis2">Presence also causes the incalculable impact of the well being of the human life. The over all quality of life for all effected by the war has been lessened. We need to withdraw to sovle </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaw 09 (Martin</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin Shaw is professorial fellow in international relations and human rights at Roehampton University, London, and an honorary research professor of international relations at the University of Sussex. Among his books are War and Genocide: Organised Killing in Modern Society (Polity, 2003); The New Western Way of War: Risk-Transfer War and its Crisis in Iraq (Polity, 2005); and What is Genocide? (Polity, 2007).)</span></span>


==2AC A2:== 
===Combat Troops:=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Counter-interpretation “Presence” is only military aid, combat operations, and bases**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American Observer 09 – quoting DOD Reports – “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world” – November 10, 2009 – [[http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world]]
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The United States … in combat theaters.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**There is no distinction between combat and non-combat troops in Afghanistan OR Iraq—that puts them in a double bind-either we meet or they limit out 2/3 of the topic killing aff ground and going against the framers intent**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Gipson 05 [Heather S. Ingrum Gipson, J.D. Candidate, University of Missouri-Kansas City, Winter 2005, UMKC Law Review, 74 UMKC L. Rev. 383, Lexis Academic]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> n136 Ann Scott Tyson, Bid … and non-combat positions. Id.</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>=== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: -27pt;">1. XO is normal means-the executive controls war planning</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prakash 8</span></span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Herzog Research Professor of Law, University of San Diego 2008 Saikrishna William and Mary Law Review lexis accessed 6/24/10]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP links to politics-XOs shift the focus to the White House</span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 1997</span></span> [Phillip, Prof of Public Administration @ Portland State, Nov 97, “Power tools for an effective and responsible presidency” Administration and Society, Vol. 29, p. Proquest]

===SECURITY K=== 

<span style="text-indent: -27pt;">Reali </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">A. It’s true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 9pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mearsheimer 2001 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]</span></span></span>


<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">B. It solves – </span>
<span style="margin-left: 9pt;">Our plans use of realism is a prerequisite to the alternative- total rejection alienates the US and makes realism inevitable.</span>
[[#_Toc271074337]][[#_Toc271073993]][[#_Toc271066292]]
<span style="margin-left: 9pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini 1998</span></span> [Stefano, Assistant Professor at Central European Univ., Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy, p. 227]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="cite">C. It’s Good – </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 9pt;"><span class="cite">They’re wrong about realism- it’s key to reformism and not the securitized structure they portray.</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 9pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murray 1997</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Alistair, professor of politics at the University of Wales, Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, netlibrary]</span></span></span>

<span style="text-indent: -27pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Threats are real and perceiving them is key to solving conflict- every impact should be weighed on an inaction VS. action basis.</span></span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Harvard Nuclear Study Group 83 </span>**[Living with Nuclear Weapons, p.16-7]

<span style="text-indent: -27pt;">Self-fulfilling prophecy is backwards – failure to express our fears causes them to occur</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Macy 1995</span>** [Joanna, General Systems Scholar and Deep Ecologist, Ecopsychology]


<span style="text-indent: -27pt;">Alt can’t solve- changing our discourse doesn’t eliminate security threats.</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Copeland 2k </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Dale, professor of government at University of Virginia, International Security 25:2, Fall 2000)</span></span>

<span style="text-indent: -27pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Don’t allow the negative to get away with their claims that all our impacts are just threat construction make them prove an actual casual chain – or you should defer to more specific impact scenarios</span></span></span>
<span style="text-indent: -27pt;">7. Responses to threats don’t create self-fulfilling prophesies—conveying weakness is more likely to spur aggression</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis, 76 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robert, professor of political science at Columbia University, Perception and Misperception in International Politics, p. 84)</span></span>

===EPA REGS=== 

The EPA is already ceding to political pressure not to regulate- and it will only get worse
Associates Press 2/2 <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">(“EPA: New pollution limits won’t apply to some”, 2/2/11, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jil8riEhc5cR4FyoOUMPL6-QgqZg?docId=71231e75c4c14eebaf3fcf71fef6d4d1 //Rufus)</span></span>






=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 

==Kritiks== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security Kritik 1NC Shell</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A. [Case Specific Link Here]</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Their political desire to know and control the world necessitates the destruction of all those who are unable to conform to their utopian certainty. But the future is full of enemies, and because we anxiously dream of future enemies, our desire for knowable future demands atrocities in the present, locking us into an endless cycle of annihilation where we destroy everything that makes life worthwhile.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Der Derian 93, (James, Professor of IR at Brown University, "The value of security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,", The Political Sunject of Violence, pp. 102-105)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The desire for security is manifested as...The security of the sovereign, rational self and state comes at the cost of ambiguity, uncertainty, paradox- all that makes life worthwhile.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. The alternative is to reject the Affirmative -- the act of situating ourselves against security through debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Neocleous 08, Mark Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only way out of such a dilemma...requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.</span>

==Counter Plans== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Surge 1NC </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> CP Text: The United States federal government should remove all timetables for withdrawal from Afghanistan. The United States federal government should maintain current troop levels in Afghanistan, commit to the surge and follow through on the counterinsurgency strategy as outlined by General McChrystal. We’ll Clarify.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Signals and plans for withdrawal create a self-fulfilling prophecy dooming solvency and emboldening terrorists—only the surge can solve and prevent Taliban take-over</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Rubin, 9 (Michael, resident scholar at AEI, “Not Nearly Enough on Afghanistan”, 12/1/2009, [[http://www.aei.org/article/101375]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> There should be nothing wrong with an open-ended commitment...prepare for a dozen new Afghanistans.</span>

===Legalize Opiate Trade 1NC=== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should provide all necessary support for the establishment of a legal poppy licensing scheme in the nation of Afghanistan. We’ll Clarify.

**Poppy licensing is the only solution to instability in Afghanistan. Setting up a legal market is feasible, undermines the power of warlords and terrorists, and accelerates reconstruction—Turkey proves**
Van Ham and Kamminga 2007 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Peter, Dir Global Governance Research Program – Clingendal Institute and Professor – College of Europe and Jorrit, Head of Policy Research – Senlis Council, The Washington Quarterly, Winter, Lexis)</span>
Although poppy licensing will be far from easy, the basic condition...<span class="underline">a preferential trade agreement with the United States.</span>

==Disadvantages== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan Relations DA</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> US-Pakistan relations are high now, but predicated on maintaining the current strategy in Afghanistan </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Associated Press of Pakistan 11/21/10([[http://ftpapp.app.com.pk/en_/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=122471&Itemid=1]] )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> WASHINGTON, Nov 21 (APP) : Pakistan and the United States are working to bring predictability and breadth to their relationship….. in 13 sectors - ranging from economic and security areas to counterterrorism and science and technology fields is broadening the relationship like never before.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Withdraw from Afghanistan angers Pakistan and destabilizes it—causes us to lose the war </span>**
Wall Street Journal 9 (October1 U.S. Credibility and Pakistan http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704471504574443352072071822.htmlDonnie)
Critics of the war in Afghanistan—inside and out of the Obama Administration—argue that we would be better off ensuring that nuclear-armed 
Pakistan will help us fight al Qaeda. As President Obama rethinks his Afghan strategy with his advisers in the coming days, he ought to listen to what the Pakistanis themselves think about that argument. In an interview at the Journal's offices this week in New York, Pakistan Foreign Minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi minced no words about the impact of a U.S. withdrawal before the Taliban is defeated. "This will be disastrous," he said. "You will lose credibility……<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">that a U.S. retreat from Afghanistan would make it far more difficult for Pakistan to help against al Qaeda.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan relations key to check nuclear terrorism in the region</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">National Journal 9/24/10 [[[http://security.nationaljournal.com/2009/12/obamas-plan-for-afghanistan-th.php]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the legs of President Obama's triad for Afghanistan is a strengthened long-term alliance with Pakistan……. The stakes for the United States in Pakistan are probably higher than in Afghanistan. But how do we manage this relationship with Islamabad? What should be our goals in Pakistan, and how do we accomplish them? What are the specific actions you would urge Obama to undertake to make this relationship work? </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terrorism will cause global nuclear war, leading to extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sid-Ahmed 4 (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Egyptian political analyst for the Al-Ahram newspaper, Al-Ahram online, August 26, 2004,http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A nuclear attack by …..this war will be without winners and losers. When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our impact is on the brink with a high probability – wikileaks have published that Pakistan has nuclear material enough to create a nuke that is poorly protected and security systems are outdated </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New York Times 11/30/ 10[JANE PERLEZ, DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMIT; New York Times; November 30, 2010; Nuclear Fuel Memos Expose Wary Dance With Pakistan; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/01/world/asia/01wikileaks-pakistan.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1&emc=na]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Less than a month after [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per|President Obama]] ….The fuel is still there. </span>

===Russian Relations DA- Net Benefit to Opium CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Uniqueness—Relations are on the brink and </span>**Afghanistan**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Josh Rogin 2010 June 24, “Opinions vary on state of U.S.-Russia relations”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S.-Russia "reset" will….. however, the serious question of why it was improved and, most important, to what end."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Link—Ending Counternarcotics in </span>**Afghanistan<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **destroys US-Russia relations**.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stack 6-11 [2010, Graham, Staff writer at </span>Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">: Beyond the Headlines, “War on</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghan Drugs,” http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/06/11/russia_puts_anti-narcotics_in_afghanistan_at_top_of_international_agenda.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A series of vigorous statements by top Russian officials…, it is not Russian troops who will die if eradication is resisted and the insurgency grows.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Impact—US </span>**Russia<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Relations Key to prevent Accidentla Nuke wa**r</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Newsweek 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – 9/1 (“How to Manage Moscow”, http://www.newsweek.com/id/154906/page/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Or take existing nuclear weapons. and to disagree and compete within constraints where they must.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Accidental War causes Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Babst 2002</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dean, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, "Preventing an Accidental Armageddon", http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/babst-armageddon.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although international relations have changed drastically since the end of the Cold War, -- an enormous overkill, the potential for an accidental Armageddon.</span>

===START Politics- Kelly=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">START will pass – has enough support now even without Kyl – plus Kyl vote isn’t off yet and he will bring other republicans over with him after the nuclear modernization deal is over </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Washington Post 11/17/10 [Mary Beth Sheridan and Walter Pincus; November 17, 2010 Wednesday; Senate's ratification of START hinges on Kyl's vote; - Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Sen. [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/lnacui2api/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T10632564221&returnToId=20_T10632572147&csi=8075&A=0.7525221246931575&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%23PE0009XOR%23&searchTerm=Jon%20Kyl%20&indexType=P|Jon Kyl ]]...supports the treaty.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Political capital is key to START – passage must be in the lame duck</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> BBC 10(Sergey Rogov, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, 4/9, BBC, “Russian pundit questions outlook for US ratification of new arms cuts deal,” p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> However, Obama will... in the senate</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> START solves accidental launch</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Podvig 6 (Pavel, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, “Reducing the risk of an accidental launch”, Science and Global Security, 14:75-115, online)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Part of the ... withnuclear weapons</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> US-Russia war is the only existential risk – sheer magnitude of nuclear arsenals</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Bostrom 2 (Nick, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A much greater ... the 21st century</span>

===Security Guarantees DA=== 
=== === 
US Security Guarantees are strong and credible now – Responses to North Korean threats prove

<span class="cite">BBC 4/7/10</span> [BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific; April 7, 2010 Wednesday; “South Korea 'welcomes' new US nuclear policy” – Lexis] 

Afghanistan pullout destroys US alliance credibility – shows lack of trustworthiness and resolve - Pakistani Foreigner Minister agrees

<span class="cite">Wall Street Journal 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Wall Street Journal, “U.S. Credibility and Pakistan; What Islamabad thinks of a U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan”, 10-1, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704471504574443352072071822.html]]) </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US security guarantees are key to deterrence - checks global proliferation</span></span>

<span class="cite">Record 4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Prof. Strategy and Int’l. Security – U.S. Air Force’s Air War College and Former Professional Staff – Senate Armed Services Committee, Cato Policy Analysis #519, 7-8, “Nuclear Deterrence, Preventive War, and Counterproliferation”, 7-8, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa519.pdf</span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear proliferation leads to mini cold wars all over the world that will lead to preemptive strikes that will end in extinction</span>**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Utgoff 2</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Victor A. Utgoff, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”, pgs. 87-90]</span></span>








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]