[[toc]]
For Cites, feel free to email me at : [[mailto:reubenlack1@gmail.com|reubenlack1@gmail.com]]

=***COIN Affirmative***= 
==Wake Forest 1ac== 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">Contention One is __Inherency__, </span>



<span style="color: black; display: block;">US forces will stay in Afghanistan – __statements from Obama__ confirm </span>



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 7pt;">Dr. Muzaffar </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Iqbal</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 6pt;">an Islamic scholar, freelance columnist, and is President of Center for Islam and Science (in Canada) – “Another Licence to Kill” – The News – July 02, 20</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 6pt;">– http://www.thenews.com.pk/print1.asp?id=248425</span>



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Yet, they have to tell the world ...that our young men and women are putting in." </span>



**Sticking with the status quo will result in inevitable withdrawal – but only after complete destruction of US hegemony and Afghanistan stability**

**Bandow 09**- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924</span>
) 



<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">America's well-disciplined and well-trained forces can do much, but not everything...Gorbachev dithered out of fear of the impact on Moscow's image before finally withdrawing Soviet forces in 1989. </span>





**<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Our Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw nearly all non-specialized forces not engaged in the training of foreign militaries from Afghanistan. </span>**




<span style="color: black; display: block;">Advantage One is Afgan Stability, </span>



<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">RECENT LEAKS PROVE THAT WE ARE LOSING THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN – INSTABILITY INCREASING </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">NEW YORK TIMES 07-25</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[“View is bleaker than official portrayal of war in Afghanistan”, C.J. Chivers, Carlotta Gall, et al, staff writers, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/26/world/asia/26warlogs.html?_r=3&pagewanted=all]]] ttate </span>

__A six-year archive of__
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">classified military</span>
... 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">insurgent forces the</span>
American-led 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">coalition is trying to defeat.</span>




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN creates instability for a couple of reasons: </span>




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FIRST, inefficient central government - </span>




<span style="background: lime; font-size: 12pt;">A. US troops allow for ineffective central government</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosen 10</span>
(Nir Rosen, //is a fellow// at the New York University Center on Law and Security, and a former fellow of the New America Foundation, “The Massive Investment and Destabilization are not worth the small threat al Qaeda poses”, Boston Review v34 no2, February 2010, [[http://www.bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen2.php]])

__This is not true. The__
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">U.S. occupation create</span>
d 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">puppet governments</span>
...c 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">entralization, not devolution.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. UMinimal, sustained forces are key to Afghan stability - Large troop presence props up the central government </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moselle 09</span>
(Tyler Moselle, Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the Kennedy School Harvard, “Responsible Withdrawal from Afghanistan” Homeland Security Today, October 1, 2009, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/sbhrap/news/Moselle_HST oday_20091001.pdf) 

Thoughtful 
proponents of increasing US troops...
killing infidels and rebelling against a foreign occupation. 



C. Self determination key to Afghan stability.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIAS 09</span>
. The American Institute of Afghanistan Studies and the Hollings Center for International Dialogue. “AFGHANISTAN’S OTHER NEIGHBORS: IRAN, CENTRAL ASIA, AND CHINA” March 2009 <http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/AIAS_AfghanistansOthersNeighbors_Iran_CentralAsia_China.pdf>

Future <span style="background: yellow;">efforts to build stability </span>in...<span style="background: yellow;">create a package that connects Central Asia</span> to South and West Asia
.



SECOND, KANDAHAR

CITIZENS OF KANDAHAR DISPISE LOCAL MILITARY OPERATIONS – aff solves the uniquely most unstable region

**Gaston 2010**, Human Rights Lawyer [Erica, “Stabilization or Crisis in Kandahar?” 4/01 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/01/stabilization_or_crisis_in_kandahar</span>
] 

A week ago I was in Kandahar, a city at ...__medical care or refuge from fighting.__







AND, THE IMPACTS



Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use – nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Evans 10</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">(Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece | Suo) </span>



<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">Terrorists including </span>
<span style="background: yellow;">al-Qaeda pose a serious threat to...c</span>
**<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">ontact any disgruntled Soviet scientist, and dozens of smart briefcase bombs are available."</span>**




That is the single greatest threat to global security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hall 10</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">(Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm | Suo) </span>



<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">Obama said "</span>
<span style="background: yellow;">the single biggest threat" </span>to U.S. security...
**<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">a weapon of mass destruction will be used in a terrorist attack" by 2013.</span>**




**Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban – key to solving terror**

**Stewart, 10-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">[[@http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4|__http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4__]]</span>
) 

<span style="color: #222222; display: block;">This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to “open the door” to the ...</span>

<span style="color: #222222; display: block;">That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world.</span>





A counter-terrorism strategy in Afghanistan solves terrorism – COIN strategy is a lightning rod and will lead to failed withdrawal

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>



<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">within the operational environment of Afghanistan ...a glide-path to a substantial drawdown</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">- and with it fewer casualties and lower expenditures in Afghanistan - over the next few years. </span>





Terrorism __ensures__ extinction

Dennis Ray 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span>
, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Years later, in 1982, at the height of the Cold War, J... if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a</span>
nuclear winter.




<span style="color: black; display: block;">AND, </span>



**A large military footprint bolsters radical nationalism throughout the entire region, risking wars - Only a stable Afghanistan facilitates geopolitical stability.**


**Innocent and Carpenter, 9 -**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">*foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf</span>)**</span>




<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 9pt;">Contrary to the claims that we should use the U.S. military ...who is hell-bent on launching a terrorist attack against the American homeland. </span>





<span style="color: black; display: block;">Central Asian war will draw in the U.S., Russia, Nato, Turkey, Iran and China and escalate globally. Nuclear war is the impact. </span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;">Peimani, 2 - </span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;">Central Asia and Caucasus specialist at the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford (Hooman, __Failed Transition, Bleak Future: War and Instability in Central Asia and the Caucasus__, p. 142-143) </span>




<span style="color: black; display: block;">The impact of __<span style="background: yellow;">war and instability in</span>__ the Caucasus ... __severe implications for__ the security of many other countries in __Asia and Europe__. </span>



**Pakistani instability causes global nuclear conflict**

**William**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9</span>
, New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence.", 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)




<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed ...administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. </span>




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEXT: </span>


Advantage Two is Hegemony 



Afghanistan is destroying Hegemony for several reasons 



First, 

<span style="color: black; display: block;">Counterinsurgency doctrine is overstretching the US military and exhausting American leadership – withdrawing to a counterterrorism strategy is vital to preventing great power challengers </span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;">Kretkowski, 10</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">– Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html) </span>



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had an epiphany...</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Iran, North Korea); or complex <span style="background: yellow;">challenges from a rising</span> power (<span style="background: yellow;">China</span>, a reinvigorated <span style="background: yellow;">Russia</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>




<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 14pt;">Second, </span>



Afghanistan is the test case for the application of counterinsurgency globally – germany doesn’t solve 

Deutsche Welle, 10 **(“McChrystal's departure deals body blow to US Afghanistan policy”, 6/24/10, http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,5725650,00.html)**




<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">The departure of McChrystal</span>
, 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">a hard-driving special operations ...an active duty US infantry officer in a New York Times blog. </span>



Overreliance on counterinsurgency will entangle the US in future global conflicts – collapsing US power and undermine the entire war on terrorism 

<span style="color: black; display: block;">Boyle, 10</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;">- </span>
1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>
)



**__Finally,__**
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">this emphasis on a fused threat between terrorists...</span>
<span style="background: yellow;">more limited counterterrorism response might be more appropriate</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span style="color: black; display: block;">THIRD, Soft Power!!! </span>



<span style="color: black; display: block;">Even if there’s a short-term decline in US credibility, withdrawal is on balance better for US leadership and soft power </span>

Innocent and Carpenter, 9 - ***foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND** vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf</span>
)



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 9pt;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status </span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council on...</span>
<span style="background: yellow;">tarnish America’s reputation and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



Soft power is key to global cooperation – the alternative is instability, disease, and environmental destruction.

Lex 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Reiffel</span>
, Brookings Institution, 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">05</span>


[“Reaching Out: Americans Serving Overseas,” The Brookings Institution, www.brookings.edu/views/papers/20051207rieffel.pdf]



I. Introduction: Overseas Service as a Soft Instrument of Power The United States is struggling to define a new role for itself in the post-Cold War world that protects its vital self interests without ...of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs suggests that the Bush Administration is gearing up to rely more on “soft” instruments.2



Environmental destruction results in extinction.

Major David N. 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Diner</span>
, U.S. Army, 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">94</span>


[“The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?” Military Law Review. 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161. Winter, 1994, LEXIS]



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By causing widespread extinctions...</span>
by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, 80 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">mankind may be edging closer to the abyss</span>
.



Diseases result in extinction.

David 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Souden</span>
, former Research Fellow in History at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, consultant to the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure, 
<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">2k</span>


[“Killer Diseases,” Factsheet, http://darrendixon.supanet.com/killerdiseases.htm]



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nature's ability to adapt is amazing - ...its believe </span>
it will be a virus that leads to the eventual extinction of the human race
.





**AND,**



Soft power alone empirically fails --- only strong military can back up soft power. The best combination is soft power with hard power.

Kim R. 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt;">Holmes</span>
, 6/12/ 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt;">2009</span>
. Ph.D. History @ Georgetown, Vice President, Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies @ Heritage. “The importance of hard power,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed061109.cfm]].



Many, if not most, 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt;">Europeans credit "soft power" </span>
__...__ a full-spectrum military force can America reassure its many friends and allies and count on their future support.



US leadership prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – prefer it to all other alternatives

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 07</span>


Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)] 

Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, 
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;">; </span>
until recently, 
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Europe; and</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;">...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">and nationalist movements.</span> Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path. </span>






<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawing troops is vital to the success of any counterterrorism strategy </span>

**Bandow 09**- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924</span>
) 



<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt;">Thus, the Taliban may well focus on its own ...an army of occupation which should be opposed and resisted." </span>
==Europe Impact (@ Hooch)== 
**Heg key to European stability – prevents war**
**Kagan, 07**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Such <span style="background: yellow;">order </span>as exists in the world <span style="background: yellow;">rests </span>not **AND**</span>
possible without renewing the danger of world war.


**Goes nuclear**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Charles L </span>
**Glaser**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Public Policy at University of Chicago) </span>
**1993**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">International Security, Summer, p. 8-9</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">However, although the lack of an imminent **AND** should not be unconcerned about Europe’s future.</span>
==Additional Heg stuff (@ Johns Creek)== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">No risk of a turn--U.S. withdrawal from the world stage would spur terrorism, economic turmoil and multiple nuclear wars. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Niall </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Ferguson</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, July/August </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2004</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is left?</span></span> <span class="TitleChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__Waning empires. Religious revivals.__ __....... would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder__</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Offshore balancing is more dangerous than hegemony. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bradley A. </span><span class="Heading2Char">**Thayer**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Associate Professor in the Dept. of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University) </span><span class="Heading2Char">**2007**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American Empire: A Debate, “Reply to Christopher Layne” p 104 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Layne does not illuminate </span><span class="TitleChar">__the risks__ </span><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.... for the American people and their allies. </span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our advantage is not based on myopic security discourse – hegemonic structures are influenced by social status – not the drive for security </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span><span class="Heading2Char">**Wohlforth**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of government at Dartmouth College) </span><span class="Heading2Char">**2009**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”Project Muse </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: yellow;">__Mainstream theories generally posit__ </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">... security and/or prosperity. </span></span>

==New Plan Text and New Cards (@Grady)== 
**Our Plan: The United States federal government should transition to an effective counterterrorism strategy by reducing the amount of its military personnel present in Afghanistan to 13000 by 2012.**

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Legitimizing Karzai’s rule opens up the door to national-local cooperation and self-determination – the biggest obstacle is COIN.**
**Ungaro 6/14** (Carlos, former Italian diplomat to Afghanistan, [[http://www.opendemocracy.net/carlo-ungaro/is-afghan-jirgah-way-forward]]) GAT
The military intervention in Afghanistan has become one of the longest-lasting war efforts in US history. It does not look like a coincidence that particularly deadly attacks are being carried out by the Taleban, while the repeated threats of an “all out attack” on Kandahar underlines the Sisyphean nature of NATO’s efforts. These circumstances do not bode well for the success of the recently convened “Peace Jirgah”, and yet the idea deserves close scrutiny and should not be dismissed, out of hand, as yet another failed attempt by The Afghan Government - with the support of its allies – to embark upon a political path instead of relying mainly on a military venture which shows no signs of imminent success. My first memory of an Afghan Jirgah dates back to the years of World War II, when, as a child, I was living in Kabul with my parents: the British had issued strong demands that Afghanistan deport all Axis citizens, and close their Diplomatic Missions. A “Loya Jirgah” was convened and, after many days of debate, declared – to our great relief – that this would contravene Afghanistan’s laws of hospitality. A fundamentally important decision had been taken which would guarantee Afghanistan’s neutrality until the Soviet invasion of 1979. The Jirgah has traditionally been an institute of primary importance in the Pathan tribal areas of Pakistan and the Pashtun areas of Afghanistan. Although, traditionally, it gathered only Pashtun tribal elders, in modern times it has been extended also to include representatives of all the other areas. It can be argued, as, indeed it has been argued, that this form of representation is much more suited to the Afghan political reality than a western-style Parliament, no matter how correct the electoral process. Afghanistan, as Pakistan’s North-West, is basically a tribal society, and peaceful coexistence among the tribes cannot be guaranteed by political processes which do not take this reality into account. With the passage of time, the term “democracy” has acquired a rather dogmatic aspect, and is associated with certain particular rituals which have evolved, in the course of centuries, in some western societies, and which have then been applied, with success, also outside Europe and North America. An analysis, even a superficial one, of local interpretations of democracy would be completely out of context in an attempt to examine the Afghan situation, which is of grave and understandable concern, but serious thought ought to be given on how it would be possible to reconcile the need for stability in such a volatile and strategically important area with social and political realities which long predate the current insurgency, and all this without further eroding basic liberties. It is, of course, probable that the Jirgah called by president Karzai will not have immediate, appreciable repercussions in the desired direction, mainly because, rightly or wrongly, the President no longer has the massive backing of the Afghan people, not even in his own tribal area. At the same time, his support among the leading international actors in Afghanistan has also sensibly declined. These circumstances, unfortunately, lend credibility to the accusations that this Jirgah is rigged and that it has been packed with Karzai supporters, thereby depriving it of the dignity essential to its success. A future scenario could, however, be envisaged in which enhanced local autonomy would allow the application of “our” democratic rules in Towns and Provinces ready freely to choose such a solution (Herat comes to mind), while others could choose more traditional methods of local rule. The central Government, instead, with a role more of guidance and coordination rather than dominance or rule, would be more in tune with the traditions of the land. This arrangement has worked in the past, and could be an indication – with the necessary variations – of a way forward. The calling of Jirgahs, and their composition and competencies should not be left to the arbitrary will of the Head of State, but rather be regulated in a new, bold and imaginative attempt to reconcile respected and valid Afghan traditions to the country’s aspirations to be part of the modern family of nations. Of course, the principal obstacle to any durable, credible negotiated settlement remains the massive and bellicose foreign military presence, whose support of the government is distasteful to many strata of Afghan opinion. The possibility of solutions along the lines suggested by the Jirgah would be greatly enhanced if agreements in that sense would coincide with a publicized, credible and accepted timetable for the withdrawal of the bulk of foreign troops. As things stand, there are few alternative suitable solutions, and recourse to the Jirgah as a convincing instrument of negotiation should not be discarded. </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Status quo Negotiations lead to instability – focused on regional interests**
**Amritage and Berger 11/12** 2010 [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.27-8]
Under the assumption that many Afghan insurgent leaders are motivated less by extreme ideologies than by political goals or personal grievances, the Karzai government is pursuing what it calls a reconciliation dialogue with top Taliban commanders in an attempt to end the civil conflict without military force. Facing a sometimes strained relationship with Washington and uncertain support from within his own Pashtun constituency, President Karzai may also see reconciliation as the best means to salvage his political fortunes. This Task Force is concerned that “reconciliation” is not being pursued in a way that builds greater Afghan unity. Negotiations have already exposed rifts in the Kabul government. Afghan minorities and women’s groups will be especially concerned about any deal that would return extremists to positions of authority. A poorly managed negotiation process would also create divisions between Kabul and Washington and among the NATO allies. Whatever its prospects, the reconciliation process will be watched closely by Afghanistan’s neighbors, all of whom feel that they will be profoundly affected by developments in Kabul. Pakistan already appears to be using its ties to Afghan Taliban leaders to shape the process and reduce Indian influence. In return, India and other regional players are particularly sensitive to Pakistani power plays. All of Afghanistan’s neighbors may already be hedging their bets in anticipation of a return to Afghan civil war. Renewed competition for influence in Afghanistan has the potential to rip the country apart, despite the fact that each state in the region would benefit far more from a period of peace and stability. Afghans would again suffer the most, with millions of refugees streaming across the borders into Pakistan, Iran, and elsewhere. Pakistan and the Central Asian Republics, already fragile, would be especially threatened by the turmoil of a renewed proxy war in Afghanistan. Moreover, the world would suffer if Afghanistan’s internal conflict permits a return of al-Qaeda and other international terrorists.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">
**A clear and unequivocal strategy with a permanent, minimal troop presence is key – alternative is losing the war and surrendering a safe haven.**
**Gerson, 10/12** 2010 [Michael, “In Afghanistan, the first hints of success” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/11/AR2010101104272.html?hpid=opinionsbox1]]]
Success in Afghanistan is beginning to come in the first muddy trickles after a long drought.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Small groups of Taliban fighters -- sometimes a dozen with a leader -- are approaching local Afghan government officials, asking what kind of deal they might get. "First, they want to be taken off any list, so they are not targeted," explains a NATO official in Afghanistan. "Second, they want protection from the insurgency. Third, some kind of economic opportunity." In counterinsurgency doctrine, this is known as "reintegration." The official admits it is "spotty" in Afghanistan but spreading in all regions. "It is happening in small numbers -- drip, drip, drip. It has not yet changed the battle space. . . . It is not a tipping point, at this point." The goal is to push these numbers much higher, with more insurgents driven to negotiation and exhaustion, so they "put down their weapons and go home." Many Americans ask: What would victory look like in Afghanistan? It would look like this -- except more of it. Eighteen months ago, Afghan insurgents had the morale that comes from momentum. But the surge in NATO operations, particularly Special Operations, has started to change the psychological battlefield. Special Forces now go after eight to 10 major objectives each night -- perhaps three-quarters of these raids result in the death or capture of an insurgent leader. Two Taliban shadow governors -- a key position in the leadership structure -- were killed in the last week. Such roles are quickly refilled, but replacements tend to be less seasoned and more frightened. "We hear a lot of chatter," says the official, "from networks inside of Afghanistan." Some fighters don't feel "a moment of peace. They can't sleep. They keep moving all the time. They can't plan attacks because they are planning to survive." And this is opening up a "real rift" with Taliban "bosses leading from the relative comfort of Pakistan." While some units are well supplied, others are "not supplied, not paid, but told to keep fighting." ad_icon Reintegration of low- and mid-level fighters is based on their concern for survival. Reconciliation between the Afghan government and higher-level Taliban leaders is a political matter, gaining much recent attention. President Hamid Karzai has convened a "high peace council," open to Taliban overtures but insisting on certain conditions: repudiating al-Qaeda, laying down arms, accepting the Afghan constitution. The most ideological of Taliban leaders will never reconcile. Others may calculate, as many Sunni leaders eventually did in Iraq, that their rejectionism is undermining their long-term political influence. In a national settlement, some kind of power-sharing arrangement is probably inevitable. But sharing power in a united government is very different from the concession of Taliban control over any portion of Afghanistan's territory. This would incite ethnic conflict and re-create the conditions that led to the Sept. 11 attacks. It is the definition of American defeat. Political reconciliation is the objective. But it is conceivable only if momentum toward reintegration continues and gathers -- and this, in large part, is a military task. Many have argued that an acceptable outcome in Afghanistan will not be achieved by military force alone. True. But an acceptable outcome is enabled by military pressure. That pressure is being undermined by a Taliban argument. President Obama's July 2011 deadline for the beginning of American troop withdrawals from Afghanistan is being used, according to the NATO official, as "an opportunity for propaganda." "They are trying to convince Afghans that we are out in July. They are saying we will be gone, telling people, 'We will remember our friends, and remember our enemies.' " There are two ways to combat this claim. The first is to build up the Afghan army and police, so that an eventual American drawdown will not leave a void. "This is one area," says my source, "where the enemy has misjudged. They said that our training goals for the army and police were too ambitious. But we are meeting our growth numbers, and the quality of the force is taking off." The task remains "very challenging," but, with enough partnership and patience, it is achievable. The second response is to make clear that America is not abandoning Afghanistan in July. The message should be, according to the official, "As conditions exist, there will be a responsible drawdown." It is America's commander in chief who has created a destructive ambiguity on this point. And only he can remove it. </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**There is a moral obligation to maintain a CT presence – collapse would devolve into a civil war and loss of human rights.**
**Grant, 2010** [Succeeding in Afghanistan by George Grant [[http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]]]
Undoubtedly the most severely affected victims of failure in Afghanistan, however, would be the Afghans themselves. Whether or not the Taliban ultimately emerged victorious, what is almost certain is that the country would be plunged into a renewed state of civil war, with numerous competing factions, each with outside countries supporting them, vying for power and with Afghan civilians caught in the middle. Were this to happen, the worthy and necessary effort to advance human rights and the rule of law in the region would have utterly failed. Such an outcome would be unacceptable, firstly because it is preventable, and secondly because, when the US, the UK and their allies intervened in Afghanistan to remove the Taliban from power, they assumed the responsibility of putting something better in its place. It has been said of the conflict in Afghanistan that it is a futile and even neo-imperialistic endeavour to impose foreign values and ideas upon a people who neither need nor want them. This culturally relativist prognosis has at its heart the essentially racist assumption that the same basic human rights that Westerners take for granted, such as freedom of expression, freedom from exploitation, the right to education, sexual equality and the right to choose the form of government under which one wishes to live, are somehow not appropriate for Afghans. This assumption is not only a grave insult to Afghans, it is also false. As has been elaborated upon in Chapter II of this report, an overwhelming majority of Afghans, fully 90 per cent, believe that for all its failings, the current government is the best hope for the country’s future, whereas just six per cent wish to see a return to Taliban rule.114 Consistent with the Constitution of Afghanistan, the current government is committed to a society in which “Freedom of expression is inviolable”; citizens “have the right to form political parties”; “Torture of human beings is prohibited”; and “The citizens of Afghanistan - whether man or woman - have equal rights before the law”.115 This is to be starkly contrasted with the Taliban who, to take a recent example, sliced off the nose and ears of a 19-year old girl and left her to die for “shaming” her husband by running away on account of the torture and abuse she suffered at his hands and the hands of his family. It was the husband himself who carried the punishment out.116 It is certainly the case that many in the West, whilst not denying that Afghans are entitled to the same rights and freedoms as other peoples, nonetheless oppose foreign intervention in Afghanistan on the grounds that it is not facilitating the advancement of these rights and is in fact making matters worse. Those who adhere to this point of view should ask themselves what the likely consequences of withdrawal from Afghanistan before such time as the government can defend the rights of Afghans on its own would be. In addition to the 140,000 NATO and US soldiers on the ground, foreign assistance is developing the Afghan National Army and other security services to levels far beyond what the government, with an annual GDP of just $23 billion, could possibly sustain on its own.117 Just as happened following the Soviet withdrawal in 1989, the likely fate of the Afghan government if left to fight the Taliban and the warlords unassisted would be collapse. Whether under the Taliban, who adhere to an interpretation of Sharia law medieval in its barbarity, or under the capricious and self-interested rule of the warlords, those human rights and freedoms which many Afghans are starting to enjoy would disappear and the vital infrastructure development currently underway would likewise cease. Afghans themselves clearly recognise the necessity of the international presence to support the government until such time as it can stand on its own. According to opinion polls, some 60 per cent of Afghans support the NATO presence, the same number that have actually supported an increase in the number of international forces in the country in the form of the recent US and NATO troop surge.118 If given the choice, the Afghan people - like all people everywhere - will support any effort that offers them and their families security and economic opportunities, and which respects their basic human rights. The effort to create such an environment in Afghanistan is not a forlorn hope or even an arrogant exercise in neo-imperialism but a worthy and workable enterprise that can yield genuine results. If we have a care for human rights in Afghanistan, and if we wish for it to succeed and not become another rabidly anti-Western autocracy, then it is imperative that the international community remains in the country until such time as the Afghan government can provide the necessary levels of security and development to succeed without external support.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Losing Afghanistan leads to Taliban takeover of Pakistan risking nuclear war**
**Grant, 2010** [Succeeding in Afghanistan by George Grant [[http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]]]
In addition to increasing the risk to Western national security, failure in Afghanistan would also generate the possibility of widespread regional instability. The country likely to be most severely affected would be neighbouring, nuclear-armed Pakistan, and this is the principal reason why the government in Islamabad has finally started to take the threat posed by the Taliban seriously. Not only would the Pakistan-Taliban be rejuvenated psychologically, the material and logistical assistance that they would receive from across the border could seriously enhance the threat they pose to the Pakistani government. For all the focus on Afghanistan, the threat posed to Pakistan by insurgents is not one to be underestimated. It is worth recalling the events of April 2009, when a resurgent Taliban advanced to within just 60 miles of Islamabad, prompting very real concerns of a Taliban takeover of the country and its nuclear arsenal.110 It is also worth recalling that what precipitated this resurgence was the capitulation of the Pakistani government in the Swat Valley, granting carte blanche to the Taliban to exercise administrative and judicial control, thus placing even more territory in the hands of the Taliban, having already lost control of most of its tribal agencies bordering Afghanistan. To cede control of Afghanistan to the Taliban, even in just those regions bordering Pakistan, could result in a rejuvenation of the insurgency across the border which would, in the worst case scenario, pose an existential threat to Pakistan, and the seemingly fantastical but nonetheless real possibility of its nuclear arsenal falling into the hands of the Taliban.The consequences of this scenario would be dire indeed. The absolutely unacceptable prospect of the Taliban gaining control of a nuclear arsenal would surely precipitate a massive incursion by Western countries or by India, with the potential to throw not only Pakistan, but the entire region into massive conflict. This is, however, the worst-case scenario and one that is unlikely to come to pass, though it is by no means impossible. More likely is that Pakistan would be able to withstand a renewed insurgency, but the fallout in terms of civilian deaths, displacement and further instability would nonetheless be severe.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**13000 troops is enough**
**Long**, Professor at Columbia University, **2010** [ Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” ]
The JAF based task force would likely need to operate principally in the heartland of the Haqqani network (Khost, Paktia, and Paktika provinces) as this would be where al Qaeda’s principal ally in the east could best protect its members (who are not generally Pashtun). For similar reasons, the KAF based task force would principally operate against targets in Kandahar, the home of the Quetta Shura Taliban, and some of the surrounding provinces such as Helmand and Oruzgan. Both task forces would nonetheless be capable of acting against targets elsewhere in the Pashtun regions. In addition to these two task forces, a counterterrorism option would retain the three Army Special Forces battalions and other elements that appear to be assigned to Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force Afghanistan (CJSOTF-A).15 This provides roughly 54 Special Forces Operational Detachment Alphas (ODAs), the basic unit of Army Special Forces. While the task forces would focus purely on direct action, ODAs would partner with local forces to collect intelligence and secure specific areas.16 Additionally, these ODAs would provide crucial support to critical Afghan allies and reassure them that the United States is not going to entirely abandon them. CJSOTF-A should, in addition, have a dedicated helicopter battalion for its own lift. This reassurance and support of local allies is a crucial and underappreciated part of a counterterrorism option, though such support to local allies could also be part of a counterinsurgency campaign. Indeed, the recently launched Community Defense Initiative (CDI) seeks to use Special Forces troops to build effective tribal militias to fight the Taliban and other militants. With 54 ODAs, the United States could potentially support local allies in roughly 50 Afghan districts, assuming one ODA per district with a few deployed in other roles.18 Logistics might prevent this upper limit from being reached but at a minimum several dozen districts could be supported by CJSOTF-A’sODAs. These local allies would inmany cases be fromnon-Pashtun groups (Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras), which would limit their ability to be effective in Pashtun areas but would likely include at least a few other tribes that see more benefit working with the Afghan government and the United States than against them. The non-Pashtun groups were the critical allies of the United States in 2001 and remain staunchly against the Taliban and other militants. The Tajiks of the Panjshir Valley, for example, are probably even more anti-Taliban than the United States and have made the province one of the most secure in the country.19 With U.S. support, these groups will be able to prevent the expansion of militants outside Pashtun areas. Local allies in Pashtun areas will not only help contain militants but will also enable collection of intelligence to support the task force operations. One example is the Shinwari tribe in Nangarhar province, which has never valued the Taliban. Shinwari militias are reported to be working with Special Forces in the Achin district of Nangarhar.20 The Afghan Border Police commander on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border at Spin Boldak, General Abdul Razziq, also derives substantial revenue from cross-border trade and will likely continue to fight the Taliban to maintain this revenue, making him a probable local partner.21 Another potential ally is the Alokozai tribe in the Arghandab district of Kandahar province, which has a history of resisting the Taliban.22 Supporting local allies does not mean abandoning the Afghan government any more than supporting local allies in the Awakening movement in Iraq’s Anbar province meant abandoning the Iraq government. However, it does pose risks, as local allies interests may not always align with those of the central government.23 Balancing the two will require deftness which will be discussed later. In addition to the two task forces and CJSOTF-A, a few more ‘‘enablers’’ would be required. First, this posture would need additional special operations personnel focused on intelligence collection, along with a substantial complement of intelligence community personnel to collect both human and signals intelligence.24 Second, it would require a significant complement of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) including Predators, Reapers, and other specialized types along with their support personnel, equivalent to perhaps three squadrons. Third, an AC-130 gunship squadron for air support would be needed, along with combat search and rescue teams from Air Force Special Operations Command. Clearly, ‘‘small’’ is a relative term. This special operations posture alone would be roughly five battalions of ground forces, eight aviation squadrons/ battalions, and a few odds and ends plus higher headquarters. This would be approximately 5,000 U.S. and Coalition troops.25 In addition, a conventional force component would be needed to serve as a quick reaction force, to provide security for the bases, and to protect convoys. A reasonable estimate for this force would be a brigade or regimental combat team, giving a battalion to each base with the higher headquarters at Bagram. This would add about another 3,500 troops.26 In addition, about 500 U.S. personnel would remain as advisers and liaisons to Afghan security forces, particularly the Afghan National Army where they would be attached at brigade and corps level. Additional air support besides the UAVs and AC-130s would also be needed. Two squadrons of fighter-bombers (F-15E, A-10, etc.) likely would be sufficient, adding another 2,000 personnel or so.27 Finally, this posture would require additional staff, logistics, and support personnel (medical for instance), some but not all of which could be contractors, adding another 2,000 military personnel.28 This would be a total force of about 13,000 military personnel and some supporting intelligence community personnel and contractors. This is a high-end estimate and the counterterrorism option could potentially be done with fewer troops. Some military personnel with Afghanistan experience believe this mission could be undertaken with half this number of troops but the posture described above errs on the side of caution.29 This is small compared to the current posture in Afghanistan, smaller still than the forces implied in General McChrystal’s report, and tiny compared to the peak number of forces in Iraq. On the other hand, it is vastly larger than any other counterterrorism deployment. Holding aside for a moment whether this is a sufficient force to prevent al Qaeda’s return to Afghanistan, how would the United States get to this posture? It would not do so overnight and the way it transitions will have consequences. First, the Obama administration should embrace the expansion of Afghan security forces, especially the Afghan National Army (ANA), called for in General McChrystal’s initial assessment. This includes accelerating the growth of the ANA to 134,000 by October 2010 from its August 2009 level of 92,000 as well as pushing to rapidly expand the Afghan National Police (ANP).30 Though the quality of Afghan forces will likely be low and the goals may not be met, some increase in total force levels should be possible and will enable the U.S. transition to a counterterrorism posture.31 Second, the President has directed an increase in force levels beginning this year. A counterterrorism strategy would have these additional forces concentrate on achieving the expansion of the Afghan security forces that Gen. McChrystal has called for. 2010 will be a time of feverish arming and training of Afghan forces while Coalition forces hold the line. President Obama has already directed that beginning in early 2011, the United States will begin to draw down its conventional forces as Afghan forces stand up. By the time of the 2012 presidential election or soon thereafter, the United States would shift fully to the posture described above (essentially a 20-24 month drawdown).</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]] | Suo)</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction in Afghanistan unfold, the White House is weighing whether al Qaeda, in fact, needs an Afghan safe haven -- an expanse of land under the protection of the Taliban -- to reconstitute its capability to attack the United States. Many noted scholars doubt it. In a recent Washington Post op-ed, Council on Foreign Relations President Richard Haass bluntly stated, "Al Qaeda does not require Afghan real estate to constitute a regional or global threat." He's wrong. Although the group has been significantly weakened since late 2001, the only chance al Qaeda has of rebuilding its capability to conduct a large-scale terrorist operation against the United States is under the Taliban's umbrella of protection. Objections like Haass's are rooted in the following arguments: that terrorists don't need physical space because they can plot online; that the London and Madrid bombings prove deadly attacks can be planned in restrictive, Western, urban locations under the noses of local security services; and that denying terrorists one safe haven will simply compel them to move to another lawless region. I spent five years as a counterterrorism analyst for the Pentagon and rigorously studied plots from Madrid to London to 9/11. The above arguments may have merit in a piecemeal or abstract sense, but fall apart in the specific case of what we all dread: a large-scale, al Qaeda operation aimed at the United States. It is certainly true, for example, that terrorist groups can accomplish much online. Individuals can maintain contact with groups via chat rooms, money can be transferred over the Web (if done with extreme caution), and plotters can download items like instruction manuals for bomb-making, photographs of potential targets, and even blueprints for particular buildings. But all the e-mail accounts, chat rooms, and social media available will never account for the human touch. There is simply no substitute for the trust and confidence built by physically meeting, jointly conceiving, and then training together for a large-scale, complex operation on the other side of the world. As the 9/11 plot developed, mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed (KSM) put the future operatives through a series of training courses along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Courses included physical fitness, firearms, close combat, Western culture, and English language. The 9/11 Commission report notes the extreme physical and mental demands KSM put on the participants -- even if the operation didn't require extensive firearms usage, KSM would have wanted the operatives to be proficient under intense pressure, should the need arise. Juxtapose that with an online learning environment. While you can no doubt learn some amazing things from online courses, it is far preferable to have a dedicated professor physically present to supervise students and monitor their progress. Or think of it another way: You wouldn't want the U.S. Marine Corps to send recruits into battle without training under a drill instructor, would you? KSM was somewhere between a professor and sergeant. Second, critics argue that the Madrid bombings of 2004 (which killed 191) as well those in London a year later (which killed 56) were largely -- though not entirely -- conceived, prepared, and executed within their respective countries, thus obviating the need for a safe haven. True enough. However, unlike 9/11 (which killed nearly 3,000), those plots' successes were possible due to their simple concept and small scale. In both cities, the playbook was essentially the same: Four to eight individuals had to find a safe house, download bomb-making instructions, purchase explosive agents, assemble the devices, and deliver charges to the attack points. Without trivializing the tragic loss of life in the European attacks, building those explosive devices was akin to conducting a difficult high-school chemistry experiment. On that scale, 9/11 was like constructing a nuclear warhead. In every sense, it was a grander vision, involving 20 highly skilled operatives infiltrating the U.S. homeland, who conducted a series of hijackings and targeted four national landmarks with enough know-how, preparation, and contingency plans to be success. In one instance, KSM taught the 9/11 operatives to shoot a rifle from the back of a moving motorcycle, just in case. You can't do that in someone's bedroom -- you need space, time, and the ability to work without worrying that the cops are listening in. In other words, as a plot grows in number of operatives, scale of target, distance from base, and logistical complexity, so does the need for space to reduce the chances of being discovered and disrupted. The final argument is that denying al Qaeda a safe haven is an exercise in futility: Drive Osama bin Laden from Afghanistan and he'd relocate to some place like Sudan, southern Algeria, Somalia, or other swaths of ungoverned territory. However, this logic makes two faulty assumptions: that al Qaeda is mobile, and that the group's international affiliates would automatically roll out the red carpet for the jihadi refugees. Neither is true. Bin Laden and his senior and mid level cadre are well-known to intelligence services the world over. Any attempt to travel, let alone cross an international border (save Afghanistan-Pakistan) would fall somewhere between "utterly unthinkable" and "highly risky." Moving would further require massive reorientation of al Qaeda's financial operations and smuggling networks. Nor would bin Laden's senior leaders be automatically welcomed abroad in areas their regional partners control. Though al Qaeda has established "franchise affiliates" in places like North Africa and Southeast Asia, relationships between al Qaeda's leadership and its regional nodes are extraordinarily complex. Groups like the North African affiliate "al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb" (AQIM) are happy to co-opt the al Qaeda "brand" for recruiting and financial reasons, but they don't necessarily share the al Qaeda senior leadership's ideological goals. AQIM is much more focused on attacking the Algerian government or foreign entities within the country, having not displayed much capability or desire for grandiose international operations. And last, recruits come to North Africa more often through independent networks in Europe, not camps along the Durand Line. Think of the relationship like the one you have your in-laws: You might share a name, but you probably don't want them coming to visit for three full weeks. Regional leaders aren't terribly loyal to senior leadership, either. Take Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the deceased leader of the group's Iraq affiliate. He was summoned to bin Laden's side numerous times in an attempt to exert control as the Iraqi commander's tactics grew more grotesque and questionable. Zarqawi declined, not wanting to risk travel or accept instruction from bin Laden. In the end, a safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border is as good as it gets for al Qaeda's chances to launch a large-scale attack against the United States. Certainly, smaller, less complex attacks could be planned without "Afghan real estate," but any such plot's death toll and long-term effect on American society will be far more limited. Unfortunately, that's a risk President Barack Obama has to accept -- no amount of intelligence or counterterrorism operations can provide 100 percent security. But to avoid the Big One, the U.S. president's best bet is to deny al Qaeda the only physical space it can access.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">
**Removing troops destroys Al-Qaeda – increases local pressure and support**
**Dorronsoro 9** (DR. Gilles November 17, “U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES; SUBCOMMITTEE: OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS”, lexis)
The International Coalition's main objective in Afghanistan is to protect its members from another attack on their own soil. Yet in fighting to eliminate the Taliban, with which it has no direct conflict of interest, the Coalition has been diverted from fighting al-Qaeda, its main enemy. What should have been essentially a policing operation, albeit on a large scale, became a major counterinsurgency war, the primary mistake being fighting the Taliban as if they were an arm of al-Qaeda. The United States expends far more blood and treasure fighting the Taliban than it does fighting al-Qaeda. The implicit idea that crushing the Taliban altogether is necessary to defeat al-Qaeda is dangerously mistaken. The Afghan war does not make the United States safer. On the contrary, the war is not an answer to the al-Qaeda threat, and it does not diminish the risk of another attack on Western countries. The relationship between fighting local insurgents and a potential Coalition fight against al-Qaeda is very much disconnected from the war in Afghanistan. Coalition strikes against al-Qaeda are not connected to the war in Afghanistan, and cooperation with Pakistan is a much more important determinant of the success or failure of such operations. The continuing war in Afghanistan, in fact, is a major asset for al-Qaeda, which is not engaged there. Indeed, no important al-Qaeda members have been killed recently in Afghanistan, and its fighters stay in Pakistan. The Coalition could continue to do exactly what it is doing now against al-Qaeda without waging the distracting war against the Taliban in Afghanistan. That is why the Coalition must disconnect these two strategic issues. The Coalition presence in Afghanistan is not actually helping in the fight against al-Qaeda and is, in fact, protecting its sanctuary in Pakistan from local tribal backlash and from the Pakistani army and intelligence agencies. Without the war in Afghanistan, al- Qaeda would be under much more pressure from Pakistani and local forces. The Coalition presence in Afghanistan is the major element driving hitherto limited cohesiveness between the very different insurgencies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In addition, the war is an impediment to constructing a clear and efficient policy regarding Iran, because it would put the United States in a vulnerable position should Iran decide to support the Taliban. The Coalition's best rationale for fighting the Taliban is to deny al-Qaeda the opportunity to create new operational bases in Afghan cities. The Coalition's strategy should start from that clearly defined interest. A more cautious strategy in Afghanistan, aimed at securing the urban centers in the Pashtun belt and Afghanizing the war, would allow the Coalition to fulfill its main objectives. It would deny al-Qaeda access to cities, a key point considering al-Qaeda's operating methods. Second, it would deny the Afghan war of its local appeal, making it more difficult for al-Qaeda to recruit volunteers. Third, the enormous resources devoted to this war could be directed toward what is known to be central to Coalition success: human intelligence and a focus on Pakistan. A defensive approach in the South and East of Afghanistan has no negative impact on operations against al-Qaeda, and would allow the Coalition to invest more resources into fighting its primarily enemy directly</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Don’t evaluate their turns – new studies show the root cause of terrorism is foreign occupation.**
**Pape , 10/18** 2010 [Robert, “It's the Occupation, Stupid” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/18/it_s_the_occupation_stupid]]]
There's just one problem: We now know that this narrative is not true. New research provides strong evidence that suicide terrorism such as that of 9/11 is particularly sensitive to foreign military occupation, and not Islamic fundamentalism or any ideology independent of this crucial circumstance. Although this pattern began to emerge in the 1980s and 1990s, a wealth of new data presents a powerful picture. More than 95 percent of all suicide attacks are in response to foreign occupation, according to extensive research that we conducted at the University of Chicago's Project on Security and Terrorism, where we examined every one of the over 2,200 suicide attacks across the world from 1980 to the present day. As the United States has occupied Afghanistan and Iraq, which have a combined population of about 60 million, total suicide attacks worldwide have risen dramatically -- from about 300 from 1980 to 2003, to 1,800 from 2004 to 2009. Further, over 90 percent of suicide attacks worldwide are now anti-American. The vast majority of suicide terrorists hail from the local region threatened by foreign troops, which is why 90 percent of suicide attackers in Afghanistan are Afghans. Israelis have their own narrative about terrorism, which holds that Arab fanatics seek to destroy the Jewish state because of what it is, not what it does. But since Israel withdrew its army from Lebanon in May 2000, there has not been a single Lebanese suicide attack. Similarly, since Israel withdrew from Gaza and large parts of the West Bank, Palestinian suicide attacks are down over 90 percent. Some have disputed the causal link between foreign occupation and suicide terrorism, pointing out that some occupations by foreign powers have not resulted in suicide bombings -- for example, critics often cite post-World War II Japan and Germany. Our research provides sufficient evidence to address these criticisms by outlining the two factors that determine the likelihood of suicide terrorism being employed against an occupying force. The first factor is social distance between the occupier and occupied. The wider the social distance, the more the occupied community may fear losing its way of life.Â Although other differences may matter, research shows that resistance to occupations is especially likely to escalate to suicide terrorism when there is a difference between the predominant religion of the occupier and the predominant religion of the occupied. Religious difference matters not because some religions are predisposed to suicide attacks. Indeed, there are religious differences even in purely secular suicide attack campaigns, such as the LTTE (Hindu) against the Sinhalese (Buddhists). Rather, religious difference matters because it enables terrorist leaders to claim that the occupier is motivated by a religious agenda that can scare both secular and religious members of a local community -- this is why Osama bin Laden never misses an opportunity to describe U.S. occupiers as "crusaders" motivated by a Christian agenda to convert Muslims, steal their resources, and change the local population's way of life. The second factor is prior rebellion.Â Suicide terrorism is typically a strategy of last resort, often used by weak actors when other, non-suicidal methods of resistance to occupation fail. This is why we see suicide attack campaigns so often evolve from ordinary terrorist or guerrilla campaigns, as in the cases of Israel and Palestine, the Kurdish rebellion in Turkey, or the LTTE in Sri Lanka. One of the most important findings from our research is that empowering local groups can reduce suicide terrorism. In Iraq, the surge's success was not the result of increased U.S. military control of Anbar province, but the empowerment of Sunni tribes, commonly called the Anbar Awakening, which enabled Iraqis to provide for their own security. On the other hand, taking power away from local groups can escalate suicide terrorism. In Afghanistan, U.S. and Western forces began to exert more control over the country's Pashtun regions starting in early 2006, and suicide attacks dramatically escalated from this point on. The research suggests that U.S. interests would be better served through a policy of offshore balancing. Some scholars have taken issue with this approach, arguing that keeping boots on the ground in South Asia is essential for U.S. national security. Proponents of this strategy fail to realize how U.S. ground forces often inadvertently produce more anti-American terrorists than they kill. In 2000, before the occupations of Iraq and Afghanistan, there were 20 suicide attacks around the world, and only one (against the USS Cole) was directed against Americans. In the last 12 months, by comparison, 300 suicide attacks have occurred, and over 270 were anti-American. We simply must face the reality that, no matter how well-intentioned, the current war on terror is not serving U.S. interests. The United States has been great in large part because it respects understanding and discussion of important ideas and concepts, and because it is free to change course. Intelligent decisions require putting all the facts before us and considering new approaches. The first step is recognizing that occupations in the Muslim world don't make Americans any safer -- in fact, they are at the heart of the problem.</span>
==1AR Cards== 
===﻿Security K=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Egotism and Domination are inevitable in the international system </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Thayer 2k** (Bradley, political scientist and an associate professor in Missouri State University's Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, the MIT Press, International Security, Vol. 25, No. 2(Autumn 2000), pp. 124-151, "Bringing in Darwin: Evolutionary Theory, Realism, and International Politics”) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__The second ultimate cause of egoistic and dominating behavior__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">........... intense security competition in international politics </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The alternative can’t address a root cause or end enemy creation- it only causes war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Andrew </span>**Sullivan,**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Harvard, 1-15-</span>**3**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> " Sheryl Crow, brain-dead peacenik in sequins. “ http://www.salon.com/opinion/sullivan/2003/01/15/crow/index.html </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">One is also required to ask: </span><span class="Underline">__If war is "not the answer,"__ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">........... of the appease-Saddam left just got a little weaker. </span></span>

===All Disads=== 
**Doesn’t turn case – withdrawal based on troops on ground**
**Hindustan Times 11/6** (11/6/10, "US drawdown in Afghanistan won't hinge on US politics: Gates" [[http://www.hindustantimes.com/US-drawdown-in-Afghanistan-won-t-hinge-on-US-politics-Gates/Article1-622975.aspx]]]
Defense Secretary Robert Gates said the pace of __a planned US troop drawdown in Afghanistan__ next year would be based __mainly on conditions on the battlefield rather than "domestic politics" in the United States__. Republican lawmakers, who won control of the House of Representatives in US legislative elections on Tuesday, have made clear that they oppose a July 2011 target date for the start of a gradual withdrawal from Afghanistan, warning they will press their case when the new Congress convenes in January. Speaking to reporters aboard his plane before landing in Melbourne for annual security talks with Australia, Gates said the effect of the mid-term elections on the withdrawal plan "remains to be seen." "Partly I think things will depend on our assessment next spring and early summer of how we're doing. I think that will have the biggest impact on the president's decisions in terms of the pacing" of a troop drawdown, Gates said on Saturday. "The administration had always stressed that __any reduction in troop levels would be determined by conditions on the ground__," he said. He added, "It will be based more on that than domestic politics."

=<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Negative Arguments</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">Appropriations CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">1NC Shell</span>=== 

__CP Text:__ **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The United States Congress should end any and all appropriations for operations in _____________.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ending funding precipitates withdrawal – only check Congress has on war powers </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Rosen, ‘7, </span>**“In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, (Legal Analyst for the New York Times and CNN) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jeffrey, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all] </span>
__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";">Legal <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">scholars</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> — both critics and supporters of the Iraq war — </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">say</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">if Congress tries to manage the deployment and withdrawal of troops without cutting funds</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, the president’s </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">powers</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> as commander in chief would be </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">encroached</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, perhaps leading to a constitutional confrontation of historic proportions. So how, exactly, can </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Congress assert power over the war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, beyond its ability </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">simply</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> to </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">pull</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the plug on its <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">financing</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">? History suggests that </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Congress has found ways of checking the president in the past without encroaching on his power as commander in chief</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. And, history suggests, as well, that neither side is that eager for a constitutional showdown. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There is little dispute that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress could</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, if it had the political will, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">end</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> in Iraq tomorrow </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">by <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">using its power over appropriations to cut off funds to the troops</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. “Congress could easily check the president,” says W. Taylor Reveley III, the dean of William and Mary School of Law and author of “War Powers of the President and Congress.” “If Iraq continues to go badly or if it looks like the president might actually use force in Iran, I can easily see Congress passing </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">something like </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">the Cambodian or Vietnam </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">spending cutoffs</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, which would force the </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">setting of a timetable for withdrawal</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> that was pretty brisk,” he said. If Congress used its appropriations power in this way, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">even the most vigorous defenders of executive power agree</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">President</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Bush would have to acquiesce. “He </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">would have to comply</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, and he would comply,” says John Yoo, the </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">University of California</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> at Berkeley law professor who, as a Bush administration official, defended the president’s authority to act unilaterally. According to Professor Yoo, </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Congress could immediately cut funds, or could order a phased withdrawal by authorizing a fixed amount of money each month for specified numbers of troop</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">s</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. “The idea that the funding tool is too blunt is a view held by people who have never worked in Congress,” he says. “It can be a scalpel as well as a baseball bat.” Congress, however, has other cudgels</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">. During the War of 1812,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Federalist critics of President James Madison forced the resignation of his secretary of war, and, decades later, the House passed a resolution censuring President James Polk for unconstitutionally beginning a war with Mexico. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Changes in technology also make it easier for <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress to micromanage military decisions</span> if it chooses to do so</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. “In the 19th century, simply to send a command and find out what happened in the battle took weeks,” says Professor Issacharoff. “So neither Congress nor the president could micromanage</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Now you can have battlefield commanders in a speakerphone in the well of Congress</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> — </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">you could have 535 generals shouting instructions.” Congress would also be perfectly competent to examine civil liberties questions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, like the restoration of habeas corpus for detainees held at Guantánamo Bay. It could pass resolutions opposing the war effort over Republican opposition, as Democrats have proposed to do. It could demand compliance with international norms about how the war is conducted. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Congress using the funding powers unilaterally is the clearest way to check presidential actions </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Will, ‘7, </span>**“Congress’s Unused War Powers”, (ABC News Pulitzer-Prize Winning Journalist, PhD Princeton of Journalism) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[George, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/11/02/AR2007110201785_pf.html] </span>
<span style="mso-add-space: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">While legislators try to leash a president by tinkering with a weapon, they are ignoring a sufficient leash -- the Constitution. They are derelict in their sworn duty to uphold it. Regarding the most momentous thing government does, make war, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">constitutional system of checks and balances is broken</span>. </span>**Congress can</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, however, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">put the Constitution's bridle back on the presidency. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress can end unfettered executive war-making</span> by //deciding// to. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">That might not require, but would be facilitated by, enacting the Constitutional War Powers Resolution. Introduced last week by Rep. <span style="color: black;">Walter B. Jones</span>, a North Carolina Republican, it technically amends but essentially would supplant the existing War Powers Resolution, which has been a nullity ever since it was passed in 1973 over President Richard Nixon's veto. Jones's measure is designed to ensure that deciding to go to war is, as the Founders insisted it be, a "collective judgment." </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It would prohibit presidents from initiating military actions except to repel or retaliate for sudden attacks on America or American troops abroad, or to protect and evacuate U.S. citizens abroad</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. It would provide for expedited judicial review to enforce compliance with the resolution and would permit the use of federal funds only for military actions taken in compliance with the resolution. It reflects conclusions reached by the <span style="color: black;">War Powers Initiative</span> of the <span style="color: black;">Constitution Project</span>. That nonpartisan organization's 2005 study notes that Congress's appropriation power augments the requirement of advance authorization by Congress before the nation goes to war</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. It <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">enables Congress to stop the use of force by cutting off its funding</span></span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. That check is augmented by the Antideficiency Act, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">which prohibits any expenditure or obligation of funds not appropriated by Congress, and by legislation that criminalizes violations of the act.</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">All this </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">refutes</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> <span style="color: black;">Rudy Giuliani</span>'s recent </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">suggestion that the president might have "the inherent authority to support the troops" even if funding were cut off</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Besides, American history is replete with examples of Congress restraining executive war-making. (See "Congress at War: The Politics of Conflict Since 1789," a book by Charles A. Stevenson.) </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress has forbidden</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">: </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sending draftees outside this hemisphere</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (1940-41); </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">introduction of combat troops</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> into Laos or Thailand (1969); </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">reintroduction of troops</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> into Cambodia (1970); combat operations in Southeast Asia (1973); </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">military operations</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> in Angola (1976); use of force in Lebanon other than for self-defense (1983); military activities in Nicaragua (1980s). In 1993 and 1994, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress mandated the withdrawal of</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">troops</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> from Somalia and forbade military actions in Rwanda. When Congress authorized the president "to use all necessary and appropriate force" against those complicit in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Congress //refused// to adopt administration language authorizing force "to deter and preempt any future" terrorism or aggression. The wonder is that the administration bothered to seek this language. The administration's "presidentialists" -- including the president -- believe presidents are constitutionally emancipated from all restraints regarding core executive functions, particularly those concerning defense and waging war. Clearly they think the rejected language would have added nothing to the president's inherent powers. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress's powers were most dramatically abandoned and ignored</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> regarding Korea. Although President Harry S. Truman came from a Congress controlled by his party and friends, he never sought congressional authorization to send troops into massive and sustained conflict. Instead, he asserted broad authority to "execute" treaties such as the U.N. Charter. For today's Democrats, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">resistance to unilateral presidential war-making reflects</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> not principled constitutionalism but <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">petulance about the</span> current <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">president</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Democrats were supine when President Bill Clinton launched a sustained air war against Serbia without congressional authorization. Instead, he cited NATO's authorization -- as though that were an adequate substitute for the collective judgment that the Constitution mandates. Republicans, supposed defenders of limited government, actually are enablers of an </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">unlimited presidency</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Their belief in strict construction of the Constitution evaporates, and they become, in behavior if not in thought, adherents of the woolly idea of a "living Constitution." They </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">endorse</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, by their passivity, the idea that new </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">threats justify <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">ignoring the Framers' text and logic</span> about shared responsibility for war-making. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Unless and until Congress stops prattling about presidential **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">"usurpation" of power</span>** and asserts its own, it will remain derelict regarding its duty</span> of mutual participation in war-making. And it will merit its current marginalization. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This is key for Separation of Powers – empirical proof </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Harvard Law Review, ‘6, </span>**“Recapturing the War Power”, (Issue 119, April 2006, ‘Notes’) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://www.harvardlawreview.org/issues/119/april06/notes/war_power.pdf, 10-11] </span>
__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">The Constitution adopts a similar balance between the President and Congress</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">The text imposes only one limitation on Congress’s power to create and maintain such a land force in peacetime: appropriations of funds for this service</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> must be revisited regularly, at least once within the two-year cycle for elections to the House of Representatives. Within the Army Clause is a subordinate clause (the TwoYear Clause) indicating that “no Appropriation of Money to th[e] Use [of raising and supporting armies] shall be for a longer Term than Two Years.”</span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 4.5pt;">55 </span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">Congress’s otherwise plenary control over military funding and organization means that “<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress could fine-tune any conditions so as to enhance, or restrict, presidential authority over that army, and the </span></span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven-Italic,serif;">size </span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">of a regular army</span>____<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;"> could be calibrated so as to give Congress, or the President, varying degrees of effective control</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">.”</span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 4.5pt;">56 </span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Thus, in times of impending crisis, Congress could authorize greater funding for a larger federal army. Once the need had subsided, Congress could scale back Army spending and size.</span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 4.5pt;">57 </span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">As a practical matter, </span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">the</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> two-year </span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">appropriations limitation</span>__ __<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">prevents Congress from committing a future Congress to long-term military action and requires Congress to review foreign policy on an ongoing basis through its power of the purse</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Hamilton described the twoyear spending limitation in the Army Clause as follows<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">: </span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">The legislature of the United States will be </span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven-Italic,serif;">obliged </span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">by this provision</span>____<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 7.5pt;"> once at least in every two </span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">years, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">to deliberate upon the propriety of keeping a military force on foot</span></span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">; to come to a new resolution on the point; and to declare their sense of the matter by a formal vote in the face of their constituents. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">They are not </span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven-Italic,serif;">at liberty </span>__//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">to vest in the executive department permanent funds for the support of an army, if they were even incautious enough to be willing to repose in it so improper a confidence</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 4.5pt;">58 </span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">On its face, </span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">Hamilton’s comment illustrates the Framers’ distrust of standing armies</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> and their intention to cultivate a legislative presumption against them. However, Hamilton’s remark is directed toward </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">Congress’s ongoing legislative </span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven-Italic,serif;">obligation </span>__//</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">to take policy positions on the record regarding military necessity</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> and toward </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">prohibiting</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> delegation of </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif;">such review to the executive branch</span>__<span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 9pt;">. In other words, to the extent that the lack of a standing army was intended to check the President’s ability to wage war, the Two-Year Clause may have prevented Congress from delegating to the executive branch the decision whether to continue a national military engagement.</span><span style="font-family: OldStyleSeven,serif; font-size: 4.5pt;">59</span> 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lack of separation of powers causes nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Forrester, ’89, </span>**“Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem”, (Professor @Hastings College of Law) 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[The George Washington Law Review Volume 636 ] </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">On the basis of this report, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">the startling fact is that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">one man</span>**</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [person] </span>__<span style="color: black;">alone **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">has the ability to start a nuclear war</span></span>**</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. A basic theory--if not </span>__<span style="color: black;">the basic theory of our Constitution</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">--is that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">concentration of power in any one person</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, or one group, is </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">dangerous to</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [humankind] </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">mankind</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Constitution</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, therefore, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">contains a strong system of checks and balances, starting with **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the separation of powers</span>** between the President, Congress, and the Supreme Court</span><span style="color: black;">.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> The message is </span>__<span style="color: black;">that no one of them is safe with <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">unchecked power</span>.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Yet, in what is probably </span>__<span style="color: black;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">most dangerous governmental power ever possessed</span>, we find the potential for world <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">destruction lodged in the discretion of one person</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. As a result of public indignation aroused by the Vietnam disaster, in which tens of thousands lost their lives in military actions initiated by a succession of Presidents, Congress in 1973 adopted, despite presidential veto, the War Powers Resolution. Congress finally asserted its checking and balancing duties in relation to the making of presidential wars. </span></span>

====<span style="text-align: justify;">**A2 Perm Do the CP**</span>==== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Funding actions and war actions are mutually exclusive </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Friedman, ’99, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Campbell v. Clinton, 52 F. Supp. 2d 34 – Dist. Court, Dist. Of Columbia 1999”, (District Judge for the US District Court for the District of Columbia) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=12236208105125089055&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]</span>
<span style="background: white; mso-add-space: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">While there are facial similarities between the facts of //Coleman// and the situation presented in this case, upon closer scrutiny of plaintiffs' allegations, the Court concludes that plaintiffs lack standing under the //Coleman// exception to //Raines.// In the circumstances presented, the injury of which plaintiffs complain—</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the alleged "nullification" of congressional votes defeating the measures declaring war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and providing the President with authorization to conduct air strikes—is not sufficiently concrete and particularized to establish standing. To have standing, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">legislative plaintiffs must allege that their votes have been "completely nullified</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">," //<span style="color: black;">Raines v. Byrd,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 521 U.S. at 823, 117 S.Ct. 2312,</span> or "virtually held for naught." //<span style="color: black;">Coleman v. Miller,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 307 U.S. at 438, 59 S.Ct. 972</span>. Such a showing </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">requires them to demonstrate that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">there is a true "constitutional impasse" or "actual confrontation" between the legislative and executive branches</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">; otherwise courts would "encourage small groups or even individual Members of Congress to seek judicial resolution of issues before the normal political process has the opportunity to resolve the conflict." //<span style="color: black;">Goldwater v. Carter,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 444 U.S. at 997-98, 100 S.Ct. 533 (Powell, J., concurring)</span>. In the Court's view, there is no such constitutional impasse here.[[#r[8]]] </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If Congress had directed the President to remove forces from their positions and he had refused to do so or if Congress had refused to appropriate or authorize the use of funds</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">for the air strikes in Yugoslavia and the President had decided to spend that money (or money earmarked for other purposes) anyway, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">that likely would have constituted an actual confrontation</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> sufficient to confer standing on legislative plaintiffs. //Cf. <span style="color: black;">Goldwater v. Carter,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 444 U.S. at 999-1000, 100 S.Ct. 533 (Powell, J., concurring)</span> (in hypothetical situation where President announces that treaty would go into effect despite its rejection by Senate, judicial branch could resolve dispute). The two votes at issue in this case, however, do not provide the President with such an unambiguous directive; neither vote facially required the President to do anything or prohibited him from doing anything. Unlike in //Coleman// where </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the meaning of the vote allegedly nullified was clearly that the legislature did not want the amendment ratified</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, the meaning of the two votes at issue in this case is not self-evident. The fact that some members of Congress believe that the President's actions are inconsistent with two particular congressional votes does not //a fortiori//</span></span>
<span style="background: white; mso-add-space: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> demonstrate an impasse that would provide those members of Congress with standing.</span></span>


====**Specific solvency for Okinawa**==== 

<span style="font-weight: 900;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Appropriation cuts can specifically be used to withdraw from Okinawa </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Wall Street Journal, 7 – 22 – </span>**10, <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">“Obama’s Okinawa Plan Hits New Snags” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://blogs.wsj.com/japanrealtime/2010/07/22/obamas-okinawa-plan-hits-new-snags-in-dc/] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">At the beginning of the year, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama administration requested $452 million in the current budget to pay for the relocation by building new facilities in</span> Guam</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. But </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Appropriation committee voted to cut</span> $320 million from <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">that request</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. This week, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">House Appropriations committee voted to cut a smaller amount</span>, $273 million</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, from the funding for the Guam move. In making its cuts</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, the Senate Appropriations Committee noted the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">recent controversy in Japan over the relocation of U.S. Marines on Okinawa</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> and concluded the recent election “could further cloud the future of the realignment process.” The Senate noted that the Okinawa government has yet to approve a landfill permit crucial to building a new runway at Camp Schwab. (The Japanese government is now waiting for the November governor’s election to seek that crucial local approval.) The budget cuts aren’t the only signs of Washington opposition to the Marine’s complex Okinawa plan. Veteran Democratic Rep. Barney Frank has made waves by calling on the Marines to pull out of Okinawa altogether. But </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congressional budgeteers</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> say they weren’t intending to signal to Tokyo that the U.S. was backing away from the plan to move Marine**s to Guam — and insisted the Japanese wouldn’t take it that way. “We** </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">think</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> the government of Japan is very sophisticated and understands our system of government,” said a Congressional staff member. “</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">They understand that if we are going to do this move our goal is to make it work as smoothly as possible.”</span>__**

<span style="font-weight: 800;"> </span>

====<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**A2 President ignores Congress**</span></span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Congress can always override Presidential attempts to ignore funding conditions </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Silberman, 2k, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Campbell v. Clinton, 203 F. 3d 19 – Court of Appeals, Dist. Of Columbia Circuit 2000”, (Justice of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=2803714193388437750&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In our view Judge Randolph's criticism of our analysis does not give sufficient attention to //Raines//' focus on the political self-help available to congressmen. //See infra// at 23 (Randolph, J., concurring). Even though the congressmen in //Raines// sought review before the Court of what was soon after determined in //<span style="color: black;">Clinton v. City of New York,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 524 U.S. 417, 118 S.Ct. 2091, 141 L.Ed.2d 393 (1998),</span> to be an unconstitutional statute, the Court denied them standing as congressmen because they possessed political tools with which to remedy their purported injury. Our colleague notes a distinction drawn by //Raines// between "the right to vote in the future [and] the nullification of a vote in the past," //see infra// at 23 (Randolph, J., concurring), and asserts that the former does not remedy the latter. But //Raines// rejected this argument, which is why the congressmen in //Raines// lacked standing whereas petitioners in //New York// </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">were allowed to contest the President's "nullification" of particular appropriations line items</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Indeed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, //Raines// </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">explicitly rejected</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Judge Randolph's </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">argument that legislators should not be required to turn to politics instead of the courts for their remedy.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Although the plaintiff legislators in //Raines// </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">had already failed to stop passage of the Line Item Veto Act, the Court's response was the equivalent of "**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">if at first you don't succeed, try and try again"— either work for repeal of the Act</span>**</span>__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span></span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> or </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">seek to have individual spending bills made exempt</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. //See <span style="color: black;">Raines,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 521 U.S. at 824-25, 825 n. 9, 830</span>. Judge Randolph overlooks this key portion of //Raines// when he disagrees with our conclusion that plaintiffs lack standing because they may "fight again tomorrow." //Infra// at 23</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If the President ignores the conditions, Congress can pass the bill again or impeach the President</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Randolph, 2k, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Campbell v. Clinton, 203 F. 3d 19 – Court of Appeals, Dist. Of Columbia Circuit 2000, Concurring Opinion”, (Justice of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=2803714193388437750&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]</span>
<span style="background: white; mso-add-space: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">My second problem is just as serious, perhaps more so: the majority's decision conflicts with this court's latest legislative standing decision. In //<span style="color: black;">Chenoweth v. Clinton,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 181 F.3d 112, 116-17 (D.C.Cir.1999),</span> we interpreted //Raines// consistently with my analysis in this case and concluded that a previous legislative standing decision of this court—//<span style="color: black;">Kennedy v. Sampson,</span>//<span style="color: black;"> 511 F.2d 430 (D.C.Cir.1974)</span>—upholding legislative standing to challenge the legality of a pocket veto was still good law. The plaintiff in //Kennedy// had standing under the proper interpretation of //Raines,// we held, because the "pocket veto challenged in that case had made ineffective a bill that both houses of the Congress had approved. Because </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it was the President's veto</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">—not a lack of legislative support—</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">that prevented the bill from becoming law</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (either directly or by the Congress voting to override the President's veto), those in the majority could plausibly describe the </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">President's action as a complete nullification of their votes</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">." <span style="color: black;">181 F.3d at 116-17</span>. If //Chenoweth// is correct, the majority opinion in this case must be wrong. If //Chenoweth// is correct, it is no answer to say—as the majority says in this case—that standing is lacking because, </span></span>
<span style="background: white; mso-add-space: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">despite the pocket veto, Congress could pass the same law again, or it could retaliate by cutting off appropriations for the White House or it could impeach the President.</span>__</span>**</span>



==<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt;">Security K </span>== 
===<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt;">1NC Shell</span>=== 
**The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.**
David **Grondin**, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, **2004**, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) 

Approaches that deconstruct ... critically-inclined view illustrates how terms used in realist discourses to construct a threatening 

**Focus on deployments obscures the more fundamental questions of US militarism**
Jairus **Grove**, PhD Candidate Johns Hopkins, 3-16-**10** http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/2010/02/new-wars-new-warriors.html

I had no recollection of what it was. I assumed it was an account of the first atom bomb. ..... finality. This cannot be the best we can do. 

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence**
Karsten **Friis**, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]

The problem with societal securitization is one of representation. ....... eternal, where truth is never questioned. 

**The Alternative is to Vote Negative to reject the securitization of the 1AC – this opens up space for emancipatory political engagement more likely to deal with real world problems**
Mark **Neocleous**, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘**8** [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, ...... Hence framing is a meta-argument 

**Realism creates the motive of distrust in International Relations – this is the root cause of conflict**
**Freyberg-Inan, 4** (Annette Freyberg-Inan, Civil Education Project Visiting Fellow @ University of Bucharest, Associate Professor of IR @ University of Amsterdam, Director of the Master’s Program in Political Science, “What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature”, 139)

Contemporary realism assumes the empirica
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__l validit y of__ **....... __human nature that underlie the realist paradigm__**.</span>

===<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">AT: Realism Inevitable</span>=== 
**Realism is only inevitable as long as we __say it is__ – its rejection through the alternative can falsify its infallibility claim**
**Freyberg-Inan, 4**
**(**Annette Freyberg-Inan, Civil Education Project Visiting Fellow @ University of Bucharest, Associate Professor of IR @ University of Amsterdam, Director of the Master’s Program in Political Science, “What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature”, __146-147)__

While all the above points contribute to the success of realism, ................. , we must define what would constitute a mistake.

**Realism is a self-fulfilling prophecy – its reflexive nature causes a confirmation bias in its assumptions and results**
**Freyberg-Inan, 4**
**(**Annette Freyberg-Inan, Civil Education Project Visiting Fellow @ University of Bucharest, Associate Professor of IR @ University of Amsterdam, Director of the Master’s Program in Political Science, “What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature”, __150-152__)

<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt;">Another example of the ad hoc adjustments employed to preserve .................... </span>
__its own tendency to function as a self-fulfilling prophesy.__

===Turkey Link/AT: Turkey L/T=== 
**<span style="color: black;">Placing Turkey at the center of Western military strategy is the root of security logic</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Sovacool and Halfon ‘7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Benjamin and Saul, assistant professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University Singapore, Professor at VTech, “Reconstructing Iraq: Merging discourses of security and development,” </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Review of International Studies (2007), 33, 223–243) AM</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">One of the issues which had been successfully securitized .......... </span>
__for the political solution on the island.__

==﻿Hedges-Creed Kritik== 
===﻿1NC Shell=== 
**The discourse of losing war is a notion that we must continue winners – this is at the root of the heroic narrative that dominates the cultural narrative**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF]

Nancy C.M. Hartsock (Hartsock
AND
it - the very real horror of war.

**War creates an unescapable addiction that controls every part of society in order to continue the conflict. This quest inevitably leads to human destruction**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 41-70]
I learned early on that war forms its own culture. The rush of battle is a potent and often lethal addiction, for war is a drug, one I ingested for many years. It is peddled by mythmakers-historians, war correspondents, filmmakers, novelists, and the state-all of whom endow it with qualities it often does possess: excitement, exoticism, power, chances to rise above our small stations in life, and a bizarre and fantastic universe that has a grotesque and dark beauty. It dominates culture, distorts memory, corrupts language, and infects everything around it, even humor, which becomes preoccupied with the grim perversities of smut and death. Fundamental questions about the meaning, or meaninglessness, of our place on the planet are laid bare when we watch those around us sink to the lowest depths. War exposes the capacity for evil that lurks not far below the surface within all of us. And this is why for many war is so hard to discuss once it is over. The enduring attraction of war is this: Even with its destruction and carnage it can give us what we long for in life. It can give us purpose, meaning, a reason for living. Only when we are in the midst of conflict does the shallowness and vapidness of much of our lives become apparent. Trivia dominates our conversations and increasingly our airwaves. And war is an enticing elixir. It gives us resolve, a cause. It allows us to be noble. And those who have the least meaning in their lives, the impoverished refugees in Gaza, the disenfranchised North African immigrants in France, even the legions of young who live in the splendid indolence and safety of the industrialized world, are all susceptible to war's appeal. Those who make war do so for many reasons, although many of these motives are never acknowledged publicly. The Palestinian uprising was not just about throwing the Israelis out of Gaza and the West Bank, but also about crushing the urban elite, the shop owners and businessmen, in East Jerusalem and Gaza City. The "strikes" organized by the sbabab, the young men who fueled the uprising from the refugee camps, hurt the Palestinian community far more than they hurt the Israelis. In Bosnia it was the same, the anger turned against a Communist hierarchy that kept for itself the privileges and perks of power even as power slipped from their hands in the decaying state. There is little that angers the disenfranchised more than those who fail to exercise power yet reap powerful rewards. Despots can be understood, even tolerated, but parasites rarely last long. War is a crusade. President George W Bush is not shy about warning other nations that they stand with the United States in the war on terrorism or will be counted with those that defy us. This too is a jihad. Yet we Americans find ourselves in the dangerous position of going to war not against a state but against a phantom. The jihad we have embarked upon is targeting an elusive and protean enemy. The battle we have begun is never-ending. But it may be too late to wind back the heady rhetoric. We have embarked on a campaign as quixotic as the one mounted to destroy us. "We go forward," President Bush assures us, "to defend freedom and all that is good and just in the world." The patriotic bunting and American flags that proliferated in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were our support for the war mounted against the "axis of evil." Elected officials, celebrities and news anchors lined up to be counted. On Friday, September 14, three days after the attacks, Congress granted the President the right to "use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks." The resolution was passed unanimously by the Senate. There was in the House only one dissenting vote, from Barbara J. Lee, a Democrat from California, who warned that military action could not guarantee the safety of the country and that "as we act, let us not become the evil we deplore." When we ingest the anodyne of war we feel what those we strive to destroy feel, including the Islamic fundamentalists who are painted as alien, barbaric, and uncivilized. It is the same narcotic. I partook of it for many years. And like every recovering addict there is a part of me that remains nostalgic for war's simplicity and high, even as I cope with the scars it has left behind, mourn the deaths of those I worked with, and struggle with the bestiality I would have been better off not witnessing. There is a part of me-maybe it is a part of many of us-that decided at certain moments that I would rather die like this than go back to the routine of life. The chance to exist for an intense and overpowering moment, even if it meant certain oblivion, seemed worth it in the midst of war-and very stupid once the war ended.

**The alternative is to connect to empathy rather than go to war – we have an individual responsibility to reject war’s myth and accept that our enemies have morals.**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 175-98]
Before conflicts begin, the first people silenced-often with violence-are not the nationalist leaders of the opposing ethnic or religious group, who are useful in that they serve to dump gasoline on the evolving conflict. Those voices within the ethnic group or the nation that question the state's lust and need for war are targeted. These dissidents are the most dangerous. They give us an alternative language, one that refuses to define the other as "barbarian" or "evil," one that recognizes the humanity of the enemy, one that does not condone violence as a form of communication. Such voices are rarely heeded. And until we learn once again to speak in our own voice and reject that handed to us by the state in times of war, we flirt with our own destruction. And yet, despite all this, I am not a pacifist. I respect and admire the qualities of professional soldiers. Without the determination and leadership of soldiers like General Wesley K. Clark we might not have intervened in Kosovo or Bosnia. It was, in the end, a general, Ulysses S. Grant who saved the union. Even as I detest the pestilence that is war and fear its deadly addiction, even as I see it lead states and groups towards self-immolation, even as I concede that it is war that has left millions of dead and maimed across the planet, I, like most reporters in Sarajevo and Kosovo, desperately hoped for armed intervention. The poison that is war does not free us from the ethics of responsibility. There are times when we must take this poison-just as a person with cancer accepts chemotherapy to live. We can not succumb to despair. Force is and I suspect always will be part of the human condition. There are times when the force wielded by one immoral faction must be countered by a faction that, while never moral, is perhaps less immoral. We in the industrialized world bear responsibility for the world's genocides because we had the power to intervene and did not. We stood by and watched the slaughter in Chechnya, Sri Lanka, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Rwanda where a million people died. The blood of the victims of Srebrenica-a designated U.N. safe area in Bosnia-is on our hands. The generation before mine watched, with much the same passivity, the genocides of Germany, Poland, Hungary, Greece, and the Ukraine. These slaughters were, as in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's book Chronicle of a Death Foretold, often announced in advance." Hutu radio broadcasts from Kigali called on the Interahamwe in Rwanda to carry out genocide. The U.N. Belgian detachment, however, like the Dutch peacekeepers in Srebrenica, stood by and watched. The radio in Kigali was never shut down. The rampages began. There was never any secret about Milosevic's plans for a greater Serbia or his intent to use force and ethnic cleansing to create it. I wrote this book not to dissuade us from war but to understand it. It is especially important that we, who wield such massive force across the globe, see within ourselves the seeds of our own obliteration. We must guard against the myth of war and the drug of war that can, together, render us as blind and callous as some of those we battle. We were humbled in Vietnam, purged, for a while, of a dangerous hubris, offered in our understanding and reflection about the war, a moment of grace. We became a better country. But once again the message is slipping away from us, even as we confront the possibility of devastating biological or nuclear terrorist attacks in Washington or New York. If the humility we gained from our defeat in Vietnam is not the engine that drives our response to future terrorist strikes, even those that are cataclysmic, we are lost. The only antidote to ward off self-destruction and the indiscriminate use of force is humility and, ultimately, compassion. Reinhold Niebuhr aptly reminded us that we must all act and then ask for forgiveness. This book is not a call for inaction. It is a call for repentance.

===﻿Alternative Debate=== 
**Language is key – it shapes the belief system that makes heroism possible**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
Myth, public memory and militarism begin with language and are grounded in perceived categories of reality that constitute belief systems. In the statement above, President Bush explicitly invokes the glory and romanticism in military myths of warfare on March 13, 2008, four days before the fifth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq. In direct contrast to the reconstitution of the myth of the romanticism of war were the four days of emotional testimonies from veterans of the Afghanistan and Iraq Wars at the National Labor College near Washington, DC, March 13 – 16, 2008. Five years before, on March 20, 2003, the United States invaded a sovereign nation and launched the powerful – and deadly – Shock and Awe air assault. Many of the former soldiers offering solemn testimonies of brutalities both witnessed and committed since the two wars began revealed the personal grappling of intense and difficult questions they experienced as they journeyed not only through the physical landscape of war, but through the interior emotional landscape of personal transformation. For many of these young Americans a belief system rooted in a tacit acceptance of mythological constructs anchored in public memory that forms a powerful part of American collective conscious was shattered. They are now engaged in the critically reflective act of challenging the categories of the old belief system and of creating new ones. The dynamic process underpinning shifts in personal and/or group understandings of perceived categories of reality can be illustrated though an analysis of speech acts, story-lines, and positions. This study uses positioning theory and narrative analysis to attempt to capture moments of change as individuals begin to challenge a hegemonic state narrative that is anchored in a specific storyline, which is in turn supported by mythical concepts of national identity, character and purpose. Through positioning theory and narrative analysis, I explore this dynamic change within a context of myths that constitute a dominant characterization of American identity and too often, our (mis)perception of others.

**It is possible – warmongering can be replaced with empathy**
**Creed,** Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
The horror in experiencing death and perversions during war exposes the lowest depths of “evil” to which humans are capable. But despite this, war can provide a purpose for living because it provides an opportunity to resolve to fight for something: the oppressed, the disenfranchised, and in this case, the innocently murdered victims of 9.11, their families, and perhaps most evident in this study - the innocent, wounded, humiliated ‘homeland’. President Bush called on Americans to defend freedom and their homeland and many, filled with feelings of patriotism fueled by anger, fear or humiliation and a need to avenge a sense of damaged national pride, rose to the occasion. An enemy was identified and positioned as alien and barbaric while Americans were positioned as innocent victims; the character roles were easily established. The plot unfolded in the narrative, based on the ‘antecedent condition’ (Cobb, 2007b) that the terrorists were evil and hated us. A binary construct system of us/them fell right into place (Cobb, 2007). And so we went to war. But, while Hedges (2002) reminds us of the psychological and emotive forces that compel us to violence, he also gives us reason to hope. If war (and violence) can provide meaning and purpose, then alternatives to violence exist. Human beings are capable of finding meaning and purpose through love, connection and empathy. The ‘aggressive structures of society’ can transform and create positive channels of energy in place of violent ones. The third analysis of this study will draw from the research discussed in the literature review to explore that transformation and the underlying antecedents for it. Hedges also reminds us that one member of Congress voted against giving President Bush unlimited force. She stated: “…as we act, let us not become the evil we deplore” (as cited in Hedges, 2002). Many of the soldiers I interviewed came to fear that we did. It is my hope that many Americans will also engage in individual and collective critical reflection by asking themselves: Have we?

**View the ballot as a decision between status quo war narratives and the entrance of empathy into foreign policy – this is necessary to begin transformation of the policy praxis.**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
The final theoretical aspect of the relationship explored in this study is agency. Ultimately, my original goal was to contribute to our understanding of the dynamic process of moving a country toward accepting and supporting war. I begin by examining the construction of an official narrative in response to a national traumatizing event – a crisis. Secondly, the narrative must be ‘taken up’ – or accepted as legitimate both morally and in terms of the policy it generates. This involves a dynamic process of individuals locating the categories of reality presented in the narrative within preexisting categories of self – or national identity. The positions and storyline must be coherent to be accepted; it must ‘feel right’. The cultural power of myth and public memory, rather than reflective critical thinking – or questioning - is critical to this process. Finally, the categories of reality created by the dominant narrative are either accepted or eventually deconstructed, falling apart as personal experience reveals the limits of the narrative’s legitimacy. To explore the aspect of agency in this dynamicexperience and make independent judgments both cognitively and emotionally. This is not necessarily a linear process and often two or all of the aspects are present at once; they argue, however, that at any given moment one aspect dominates and will determine attitudes and hence, behavior. The iterational aspect probably dominates the vast majority of the time for all of us. This space offers actors stability and coherence, which provides boundaries for a sense of reality and identity. We need this space and rely on it to give order to our lives. At certain times, however, especially in moments of crisis, a coherent pattern of categories of reality begin to conflict with personal experiences. In these moments actors have a choice: they can reject the doubts that their experiences reveal and remain attached to the coherence of existing beliefs, or they can begin to reflectively examine the ‘fit’ between experience and beliefs. Once in this space repositioning and transformation can occur.

**The aff is possible after the alternative – embracing empathy opens the space for rejecting war**
**Poe, 2008** [Danielle “Replacing Just War Theory with an Ethics of Sexual Difference” Hypatia, Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008, pp. 33-47 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press, Project Muse] 
In conclusion, just war theory fails because it not only has an overly narrow conception of war but also of war’s costs, which have a negative impact on the very possibility of cooperative relationships between people. Just war theory cannot adequately think through the toll that war takes on what Jane Addams called, “sensitiveness to human life.” Instead of trying to sort just wars from unjust wars, Addams argued for abolition of war, an argument I have pursued here. Bar On provides a viable alternative to war through her concrete recommendations about acting with empathy, recommendations that Irigaray’s emphasis on sexual difference helps foster. An ethics of sexual difference as an alternative to war makes several assumptions about what it means to be human. First, this ethics assumes that humans are at least two. While the differences between humans extend beyond sexual difference and even sexual difference extends beyond male and female, every human is both limited by and connected to others by sex. Second, this ethics assumes that genuinely new relationships between humans are possible. Humans can find new ways to live together by cultivating sexual difference. An ethics of sexual difference demands patience and conscious attention to one’s connections and limits. While some people may reject an ethics of sexual difference because it cannot guarantee results and the successes that it can achieve requires sustained action and sacrifice, the same can be said of war. Wars have never settled conflict nor established anything but a negative peace; they do not establish positive peace. Establishing justice is always an ongoing project, what an ethics of sexual difference offers is a method for establishing justice that treats all means to justice and peace as ends as well. An ethics of sexual difference has meaning in each relationship and each activity, in turn those relationships and activities pave the way to further action.

===﻿2NC Link Evidence=== 
**The concept of a “Just war” creates a justification for the destruction of society. Even if they justify changing the strategy in Afghanistan the continuation of the war is on balance destructive.**
**Poe, 2008** [Danielle “Replacing Just War Theory with an Ethics of Sexual Difference” Hypatia, Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008, pp. 33-47 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press, Project Muse]
The just war tradition has been developing for centuries and is generally traced back to Saint Augustine and Saint Thomas Aquinas. From the time of its development, just war theory has been used to assess whether or not military force ought to be used. In the Global Studies Encyclopedia, J. C. Kunkel argues that just war theory operates under the principle of double effect: “Under double effect an action that has two contrasting effects, one good and the other evil, may be permissible under certain conditions provided that only the good end is intended” (2003, 313). Thus, the context for just war is one in which the evil effects of war are acknowledged, but if a specific set of conditions is met and the evil is not intended, then war becomes permissible. For Kunkel, proponents of just war theory operate under larger ethical systems, such as deontology, which states that humans have moral duties to obey. One discovers these moral duties by asking whether a particular action can be universalized. For instance, killing human beings cannot be universalized without falling into absurdity. Also, neglecting to preserve one’s life cannot be universalized without falling into absurdity. These two examples lead to the conclusions that a person both has a duty not to kill human beings and a duty to preserve her life. These two duties, however, may come into conflict when in order to defend herself and to preserve her own life, a person uses lethal force against another human being. When a person uses lethal force to defend her life, the conflict is an exemplary case of the principle of double effect because the action produces a good effect, preserving one’s life, and an evil effect, killing a human being. The action via which one both defends to preserve one’s life and kills another is, however, morally permissible, under the principle of double effect if the good effect is intended and is not directly produced by the bad effect (313). Just war theory takes the principle of double effect and applies it to largescale conflicts. In this case, a nation or group can act in a way that is normally excluded from ethical action. Under most conditions, it is not acceptable to kill human beings. According to just war theory, there are times in which a group or nation is morally free to act in such a way that the evil effects of war are the unfortunate by-product of seeking a good effect. To insure that the good effect, and not the evil effect, prevails, just war theory imposes five conditions that must be met for a war to be morally permissible: just cause, right intention, discrimination, proportionality, and legitimate authority (314). Just cause tests the end or purpose for which war is fought. Within the just war tradition, this is translated as defending human beings from death or serious human rights violations. Right intention adds a further condition to just cause by seeking “a caring common ground for resolving conflicts before proceeding to the belligerent military option” (314). If one can prevent serious harm and death without resorting to war in which serious harm and death happens intentionally to combatants and unintentionally to noncombatants, then one can obviate the principle of double effect and have multiple good effects instead of an evil effect and a good effect. Should negotiations fail, then just war theory adds another condition on those who would pursue war as the means to a good effect: discrimination between combatants and noncombatants. Military action cannot seek to harm noncombatants as part of its strategy to resolve a conflict; however, just war theory does allow that foreseeable noncombatant deaths are permissible so long as they are not intended. The fourth criterion that must be met is proportionality, which is an overall assessment of the probability and cost of success. Those who are seeking a good effect in spite of foreseeable, but unintended evil effects, must weigh whether the number of lives that will be saved is likely to be more than the number of lives lost and that the human rights that will be preserved are greater than the human rights that will be sacrificed. If a nation or group can satisfy all of the above conditions, they must also have legitimate authority. A suitable governing body must approve military action (315–17). Although all five conditions of just war theory must be met in order for war and military action to be morally permissible under the principle of double effect, the picture of war that just war theory presents is too narrow especially when it comes to war’s costs, justified or not. If just war theory were followed in its entirety, wars would presumably decrease. In 1915, while World War I was spreading, Jane Addams, who went on to win the Nobel Peace Prize in 1931, participated in the founding conference of the Women’s Peace Party in Washington, D.C., where she gave a speech that detailed the many hidden and added costs of war that simple calculations do not measure (1915, 61–64). Addams overall concern was that war destroys “sensitiveness to human life.” War destroys this sensitiveness by diminishing the protection, the nurture, the fulfillment, the conservation, and the ascent of human life. Addams elaborated each of the ways in which war undermines sensitiveness to human life. First, was destroys the protection of human life by instead redirecting toward the war effort resources and medical progress that could be channeled into, for example, curbing infant mortality and childhood diseases. Second, war compromises the nurture of human life by removing soldiers from society to fight—soldiers that would otherwise have been productive, cooperative members of society. The nurturing work is forever lost when soldiers die, and it is forever compromised and undermined even when those soldiers return. War circumscribes the fulfillment of human life when children who might otherwise have entered professions that serve humanity are instead sacrificed to professions that obliterate rather than uplift other human beings. War destroys the conservation of human life by diverting time, talent, and money away from social programs for children, the elderly, and the disabled. Finally, war cuts short the ascent of human life by decreasing sensitivity to human life instead of advancing our sensitiveness to human life between generations. Instead of building on the achievements of the last generation, those who have gone to war and suffered through war must begin again because war produces a hardening against human suffering (62–63). The costs of war that Addams enumerated serve as an important reminder that war takes its toll on some of the most fundamental relations of cooperation among people. Just war theory calculates the evil effects of war but does not define the evil effects of war broadly enough to account for the ways in which not only is justice compromised but sensitiveness to human life is compromised as well. What Addams pointed out was that wars, even justified wars, do far more destruction than what is apparent on the surface. Beyond tremendous loss of life and physical dismemberment, war undermines human trust and human life. Adams comments were against war because she favored its elimination, not its justification. Addams was saying that even with just wars the toll is too great. Stop wars and get on with life-giving practices. Wars destroy the very human trust they hope to protect and defend.

**Don’t evaluate their evidence – it is locked into the ideology of polarization that silences challenges to the war narrative.**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF]
This story drives the rest of the 9.11/Iraq narrative patterns and creates a new reality – war. It provides justification for the “self-righteous and punitive” (Gilligan, 1996) American response – a response that may be consistent with certain tendencies located in the broader American cultural context. The narrative provides an interpretation of the event that absolves America from questioning not only its own policies but also the darker tendencies existent in our national character. But, just as American policy may have played a considerable role in creating conditions for the motivation behind the attacks, elements of our sense of national identity, character and purpose may have contributed significantly to half the nation overwhelmingly supporting violent retaliation against not only the Taliban, but later Iraq as well. The explanation for the attacks embedded in the 9.11/Iraq narrative patterns fits an understanding of the world in Manichaean terms of absolutes. Both Good and Evil exist as competing forces, each with a life force of its own. This creates an easily understood moral order in which characters and acts can be aligned. Bush appealed to the simplicity of this universe and in doing so, eliminated all complexity from the conflict. People could understand that evil existed within certain people – the Others – and that such people would resort to the most heinous violent acts because they were evil. This neat division of us/them with ‘them’ acting out of an inherent inclination to hate America and its way of life is a familiar story anchored in our historical mythological constructs. It reveals more about us than those we call our enemies. Americans intuitively understand the moral order that shapes our national identity. This local moral order sets up boundaries of good and evil with the U.S. on the ‘good side.’ A storyline emerges easily within this frame, situating actors and action in predictable positions. At their most pernicious these thought-forms position oppositional characters and traits: if one is evil, one is irrational; therefore, rational dialogue becomes pointless. Only a violent response would counter the forces of evil. Half of the population of the U.S. accepted this explanation and would later become ardent supporters of war. Given the simplicity of this narrative’s storyline, we must ask why at least half the American public accepted it as legitimate. What tendencies in the American cultural fabric help us understand the response to this simplistic narrative? Why do we march to the politics of retaliation instead of reconciliation? President Bush implicitly appeals to a political religion of extremism, which amounts to a social/political determinism whereby some within a national group remain fixed in their beliefs and are unified by the beliefs of their leaders. In accepting the narrative constructed by his administration approval is given to the assumptions – or beliefs – underlying the storyline. Approval is given then to the simplistic division of absolutes. If we accept Bush’s explanatory narrative then we are in fact accepting the idea that human beings can be born evil and will therefore be violent because it is in their nature to be so. It is a rather short leap then from the evil individual to the evil group. The implicit assumption in this binary construct is that America is inherently ‘good’. In this social/political determinist scenario, nothing else can be done except to “smoke [evildoers] out of their holes”1 and eliminate the forces of evil altogether. America, as the force for good, must take up that challenge. No alternative course of action is possible. Simplistic narratives based on binary constructs embedded in myth and public memory that incite or perpetuate violence often give rise to a tacit militaristic society that may ironically perceive itself as promoters of peace. President Bush and the American public backed into a corner of social/political determinism and an intractable conflict with the explanatory and retaliatory narrative that served to justify the U.S. unilateral and pre-emptive use of force against Iraq – a sovereign nation unconnected to the 9.11 attacks. For a brief moment Americans did ask, “Why?” America seemed ready to reflect and engage in the critical thinking that would not strip 9.11 of its complexity and relational nature. That quickly faded. Half the nation accepted the us/them dichotomy, which simplified the event. They are evil; we are good. They are irrational; we are rational. They are uncivilized; we are civilized. They use incomprehensible violence against innocent people without cause; we do not. In short, we are essentially, fundamentally different from them. But are we?
﻿ 






==South Korea Condition CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
<span style="display: block; font-weight: normal;">TEXT: </span>
**The United States federal government should offer to (**plan**) if North Korea agrees to a simultaneous, verifiable freeze of its nuclear program.**

**Troops can be successful as a bargaining chip with North Korea**
**Feffer 4** (John, contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis, 6/23, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]])

<span style="background: aqua;">An even more dramatic withdrawal of U.S. troops would not compromise security </span>
............... U<span style="background: aqua;">.S. troop withdrawal from the Korean peninsula would be such an </span>
<span style="background: aqua;">enormous step toward resolving inter-Korean tensions</span>
<span style="background: aqua;">that the benefits outweigh the costs.</span>



**The unconditional plan hurts deterrence and causes war and proliferation**
**Cronin et al 94** (Richard P, Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS, 6/1/1994, CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” [[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]])

While 
a U.S. withdrawal based on a credible non-proliferation ............. <span style="background: aqua;">nuclear program towards weapons production.</span>


**That causes global nuclear war**
**Cirincione 2K**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">(Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Spring, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JSTOR)</span>
The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia ............... 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; display: block;">, <span class="underline">the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since</span></span>
19
<span style="background: aqua;">45</span>
.

===CP is Germane=== 
**The CP is a legit literature based question – it’s one of three strategies we can take**
**Samore 8** (Gary, Vice President, Director of Studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair, June 26, “Nuclear Agreement with North Korea Is 'A Useful Initial Step'”, [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/16653/nuclear_agreement_with_north_korea_is_a_useful_initial_step.html]], AV)

I haven't seen much either. I assume ................. left is the incremental quid pro quo strategy.

==TAPI Pipeline DA== 
**1. TAPI construction will happen – despite geopolitical and religious tension, there is support and cooperation now**
**Foster ‘10**
John Foster, energy economist with worldwide experience in energy and development. He has held posts with the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, British Petroleum and Petro-Canada, “Afghanistan, Energy Geopolitics and the TAPI Pipeline,” Global Research, March 25, 2010, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18329]]
[<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">At the time, the Taliban AND </span>**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">established to oversee project development</span>__**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">.]</span>

**2. US military presence ensures TAPI construction which is key to offset Iranian resource expansion**
**Sullivan ‘09**
Corwin Sullivan, “America, a Gas Pipeline Called TAPI, and Afghanistan,” August 14, 2009, The Canada’s World Blog, [[http://canadasworld.wordpress.com/2009/08/14/america-a-gas-pipeline-called-tapi-and-afghanistan/]]
[In the early days of the AND <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">economic damage on an enemy.]</span>__**</span>

**3. IPI solidifies Iranian leverage over Central Asia, emboldening Iran to proliferate and crushes Middle East stability**
**Cohen ET AL, Curtis, and Graham ’08** Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies; Lisa Curtis is Senior Research Fellow for South Asia in the Asian Studies Center; and Owen Graham is a Research Assistant in the Allison Center at The Heritage Foundation, No. 2139, May 30, 2008, “The Proposed Iran–Pakistan–India Gas Pipeline: An Unacceptable Risk to Regional Security,” Executive Summary Backgrounder – Heritage Foundation, [[http://www.gees.org/documentos/Documen-03020.pdf]]
[<span style="font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Iran’s support of terrorism</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, hostile AND </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">natural gas through the IPI.]</span>__**</span>

**4. Iranian proliferation causes Middle East proliferation and war**
**Nye ‘06**
Professor of International Politics at Harvard [Joseph S. Nye, a former Assistant US Secretary of Defense under President Clinton, “Should Iran Be Attacked?,” Monday , 29 May 2006, pg. [[http://www.turkishweekly.net/comments.php?id=2105]]
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"><<Would __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">an Iranian bomb</span>__ really be AND </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">weapons technology to terrorist groups.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">>>]</span></span>

**5. Middle East war leads to extinction**
**Steinbach ‘02**
John, March 3, Center for research on Globalization, [[@http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm]]
[<span style="display: inline !important;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">As Israeli society becomes more<span style="line-height: 22px;"> AND </span></span>__****__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">could trigger a world conflagration</span>__**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">"<span style="line-height: 22px;">]</span></span></span>

==﻿Afghan Politics DA== 
===﻿1NC Shell=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Withdrawing by 2014**</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Reichmann and Rahim Faiz**</span></span>, AP staff writers, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**7/21**</span></span><span class="hn-date">/10, </span>Associated Press, Karzai reaffirms 2014 goal for Afghan-led security, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5hvWEqwq3CrRvaQCmt21MfoYhjZJQD9H30F8O5 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;">KABUL, Afghanistan — __<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">The U.S.</span> and </span>__....... their affairs, even four years down the road. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">B. Withdrawal now collapses Karzai’s government in favor of the Taliban </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">John <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Nagl**</span></span>, president of the Center for a New American Security, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**10**</span></span>. (“Debating Afghanistan”, //The National Interest,// March-April, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22916) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;">EXPELLED FROM Afghanistan within months of 9/11 __..........__ years, __<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">would crumble without U.S. support</span>.</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">C. Taliban takeover causes terrorist attacks and Indo-Pak conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Alexander **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Downer</span></span>,** Former Australian Foreign Affairs Minister, **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7/19</span></span>/**10 (Advertiser "We can't leave yet", lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;">Afghanistan is now the longest war in which the United States has ............ encouraging President Karzai to appoint better-quality public administrators. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">D. Indo-Pakistani Conflict Would Go Nuclear </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Martin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Schram**</span></span>, Washington Reporter for 30+ years and Author of 5 Books, December 2, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**08,**</span></span> Seattle Pi, http://www.seattlepi.com/opinion/390309_schramonline03.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Once again, world leaders need to recall the frighteningly candid ...................__ __be made instantly -- by generals in the field -- not civilian leaders in the capitals.__ </span></span>

===﻿2NC/1NR Link Evidence=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Karzai will lose control without US military presence, which forces Obama to keep the bases. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 4.5pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Michael <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Gass,**</span></span> Explosive Ordinance Disposal Specialist and 3x presidential protection, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**6-24-**</span></span>2010. (“</span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://tempxyp2440ym0wn.blogspot.com/2010/06/israel-actions-could-have-us-military.html|Israel's Actions Could Have US Military Base Implications]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">”, //Truthout//, http://www.truth-out.org/israels-actions-could-have-us-military-base-implications60697) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0.5in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background: yellow;">Without US military assistance, there is little hope of</span> ...............__</span> region maintained by the United States that is stable. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Our STRATEGIC ALLIANCES link - Karzai will ally with the Taliban to survive US military abandonment </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Tony **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Karon</span></span>,** senior editor and Middle East specialist, 20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>.** (Tony, “Afghanistan: Why Karzai is Pushing Back Against the U.S.”, Time Magazine, April 5, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1977781,00.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;">To some it may seem as if President Hamid <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow;">__Karzai__</span></span> has a death wish............<span class="DebateUnderline">__he must if he is <span style="background: yellow;">to survive politically.</span>__ </span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Karzai will LOSE CREDIBILITY without US forces behind him </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor 02</span></span>** (“Afghan Domestic Conflict Forcing Difficult Choice on U.S.”, 5-15, http://www.stratfor.com/products/ premium/read_article.php?id=204469) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__There is no question about the primary U.S. .................____<span style="background: yellow;"> him to twist in the wind will shred his credibility.</span>__ </span></span>

==﻿T - Non Combat Troops== 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Military presence excludes combat forces </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">James S. </span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thomason</span>** **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">et. al</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">, Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses, Rovert Atwell, Robert Bocey, William Cralley James Delaney, Michael Fischerkeller, Kongdan Hassig, Charles Hawkins, Gene Porter, 7-</span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2002</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD “ Institute for Defense Analyses, </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">**__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Our working definition of US overseas military presence ................... </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">case an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them.2 </span></span>

==Case Turns== 
===Asian Stability=== 
**U.S. military presence is key to deter a number of Asian conflicts – perception of decline will gut U.S. credibility**
**Auslin, 10**– resident scholar at AEI (Michael, 3/17/10, “U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments,” House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, http://www.aei.org/speech/100130, JMP)

Despite this litany of problems both real and perceived, ................ affects the plans and perceptions of other nations in the region.

==﻿Tournament Info== 
===﻿Grady Tournament (November 12-13)=== 
====Round 2==== 
1AC: Bagram - Genocide/ILaw/H Rights
1NC: Plan Flaw, Test Case Spec, T-Substantial=25%, Badiou K, EPM CP w/Hollow Hope DA, Case
2NC: Badiou K, EPM CP w/Hollow Hope DA
1NR: Case
2NR: EPM CP w/Hollow Hope DA

====﻿Round 3==== 
1AC: COIN Afghanistan
1NC: T-Combat Troops, Jirga CP, Withdrawal DA, Hedges-Creek K, Case
2NC: Hedges-Creed K
1NR: Case
2NR: Hedges-Creed K

===UGA (with Navya Nadimpalli)=== 
====Round 1==== 
1AC: Bagram
1NC: T-Substantial, Appropriations CP, Case Turns
2NC: T-Substnantial
1NR: Appropriations CP
2NR: T-Substantial

====Round 3==== 
1AC: South Korea
1NC: T-Subsets, T-Substantial, Appropriations CP, Deterrence DA, Guam DA, Case
2NC: Appropriations CP, Guam DA
1NR: Case (also kicked Deterrence)
2NR: Appropriations CP (w/ some case)

====Round 6==== 
1AC: Kritikal Afghanistan (Woodward)
1NC: T-Reduce Excludes Eliminate, Appropriations CP, Badiou K, Withdrawal DA, Case
2NC: Badiou K, Framework adv.
1NR: Appropriations CP
2NR: Badiou K