[[toc]]
=AFF= 
=Drones: (The Aff Kyle likes) Carrollton, Grady, CFL Qualifier, Jackson, Emory= 
<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">PLAN: THE UNITED STATE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT’S CENTRAL INELLIGENCE AGENCY SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS MILITARY PRESENSE IN AFGHANISTAN BY REMOVING ALL TIER II CLASSIFIED DRONES. WE’LL CLARIFY</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia;">FIRST: STATUS QUO</span>**__</span>
DRONE STRIKES ARE INCREASING DRAMATICALLY 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Raddatz</span> 9/28 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span> (Martha, CBS News, US Drone Strikes Increasing On Pakistan Border) </span>[[http://abcnews.go.com/WN/Afghanistan/us-drone-strikes-climb-pakistan-border/story?id=11750242]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The U.S. is hitting back ... There's no question." </span>

THEY'RE BASED IN AFGHANISTAN 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Turse 10</span> (Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction </span>[[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">The</span> air force has created ...<span style="background: aqua;"> the drones are physically based</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia;">SECOND: MIDDLE EAST DRONE CHAOS</span>**__</span>
DRONES REIGN TERROR OVER THE REGION
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Wazir</span>, 9/28, 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span> (Syed Moazzam Hashmi, Shahzad, </span>[[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/indepth/2010-09/27/c_13531919.htm|Xinhua News Agency]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21232</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WANA, Pakistan: Sudden ear<span style="background: aqua;">-ripping explosions... eliminate our lives anytime</span></span>

THE VIOLENCE WILL NEVER END 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*White</span> et al, 10/4 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span> (Jim, The Telegraph, Dawn, Reuters) </span>[[http://seminal.firedoglake.com/diary/74916%20/|http://seminal.firedoglake.com/diary/74916 //]] [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/pakistan/8040726/Pakistan-Taliban-claims-responsibility-for-Nato-convoy-attack.html%20/|http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/pakistan/8040726/Pakistan-Taliban-claims-responsibility-for-Nato-convoy-attack.html //]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/pakistan/19-taliban-claim-attacks-on-nato-supply-convoys-in-pakistan-hh-05</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The latest attacks on ... <span style="background: aqua;">to increasing levels of violence. </span></span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**FLASHPOINT ONE: PAKISTAN**__ </span>
DRONES STRIKES ARE RADICALIZING THE POPULATION IN PAKISTAN 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Landay</span> 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span>. (Jonathan S. “Do U.S drones kill Pakistani extremists or recruit them?” March 22, 2010. </span>[[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/3/22/v-print/65682/do-us-drones-kill-pakistani-extremists.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WASHINGTON — Even as the ... windfall for the Pakistani Taliban."</span>

FURTHER STRIKES RISKS COLLAPSE OF RELATIONS
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Peter <span style="background: aqua;">Goodspeed,</span> (Staff). NATIONAL POST. Dec. 28, 200<span style="background: aqua;">9</span>. Retrieved Jan. 13, 2010 from </span>[[http://www.nationalpost.com/news/world/story.html?id=2360054]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Suggestions Washington ... U.S.-Pakistan relationship may be heading for a train wreck</span>."</span>

NOW IS A KEY TIME: THE MILITARY IS GROWING INCREASINGLY SYMPATHETIC 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Jagadish</span>, 200<span style="background: aqua;">9</span>, (Vikram JD Candidate Georgetown Texas Review of Law and Politics, Spring, 13 Tex. Rev. Law & Pol. 223, p. 252-3 CH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Pakistani officers</span> today, according ... <span style="background: aqua;">as a whole</span> in the aftermath of the Zia era.</span>

FAILURE TO RESOLVE RESULTS IN TAKEOVER AND NUCLEAR CATASTROPHY
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Jagadish,</span> 200<span style="background: aqua;">9</span>, (Vikram JD Candidate Georgetown Texas Review of Law and Politics, Spring, 13 Tex. Rev. Law & Pol. 223, p. 252-3 CH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Islamic <span style="background: aqua;">extremists salivate over the ...</span> will remain a nightmare and not become a reality.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia;">WE’LL ISOLATE A FEW SCENARIOS</span>**__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia;">FIRST IS TERRORISM</span>**__</span>
COLLAPSE RESULTS IN LOOSE NUKES SCENARIOS 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Brooks</span>, Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, 200<span style="background: aqua;">7</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">The fall of Musharraf's ... number of targets, including the U.S.</span>. </span>

WAR 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Speice ’06</span> JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary, Patrick F., Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Accordingly, there is a significant ...escalate to the use of nuclear weapons. 53</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia;">SECOND IS REGIONAL CONFLICT:</span>**__</span>
POLITCAL COLLAPSE WILL ESCALATE TO REGIONAL CONFLICT 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Guthrie,</span> 200<span style="background: aqua;">0</span> (Grant, JD Candidate Nuclear Testing Rocks the Sub-Continent: Can International Law Halt the Impending Nuclear Conflict Between India and Pakistan?, , Spring / Summer 00, "NOTE: ", 23 Hastings Int'l & Comp. L. Rev. 495, lexis law CH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">There are strong political ... <span style="background: aqua;">world could be incredibly destabilizing.</span></span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">THIS IS THE MOST LIKELY SCENARIO FOR WAR</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Michael <span style="background: aqua;">O’Hanlon, 6</span> Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies and The Sydney Stein, Jr. Chair at the Brookings Institution. He is also a Visiting Lecturer of Public and International Affairs at the Wood, 2006. http://www.princeton.edu/~ppns/papers/ohanlon.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Few dangers</span> in the 21st century <span style="background: aqua;">could compete ... </span>terrorist group in the anarchical environment that ensued. </span>

IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO CONTAIN 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Michael <span style="background: aqua;">O’Hanlon, 6</span> Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies and The Sydney Stein, Jr. Chair at the Brookings Institution. He is also a Visiting Lecturer of Public and International Affairs at the Wood, 2006. </span>[[http://www.princeton.edu/~ppns/papers/ohanlon.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Were Pakistan to collapse</span>, it is unclear ... <span style="background: aqua;">considered to run very high</span></span>

THIS WOULD RIP A HOLE IN THE OZONE LAYER 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Fox,</span> 200<span style="background: aqua;">8</span> (Maggie India Pakistan Nuclear War Would Cause Ozone Hole, Planet Ark, 8 April </span>[[http://www.planetark.com/dailynewsstory.cfm/newsid/47829/story.htm]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CH) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Fires from burning cities would send ... larger than losses that were predicted following a full-scale nuclear war,</span>" Toon said in a statement.</span>

EXTINCTION 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;"><span style="background: aqua;">*</span>Earth & Society 98</span> (A Project out of the University of Michigan -- THE OZONE LAYER: IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF OZONE EDUCATION – </span>[[http://www.umich.edu/~gs265/society/ozone.htm]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CH) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The ozone found in our atmosphere is ... <span style="background: aqua;">allows life,</span> as we know it, <span style="background: aqua;">to exist.</span> </span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**NEXT: SOLVENCY**__ </span>
<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">PLAN IS THE ONLY OPTION; STAT QUO IS LOCKS IN DRONE USE</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Turse 10</span> (Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction </span>[[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">In</span> neighboring <span style="background: aqua;">Afghanistan, unmanned aircraft</span>... <span style="background: aqua;">unmanned aerial systems</span> (UAS).</span>

DRONES ARE GLOBALLY BASED IN AFGHANISTAN
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Barnes 10</span> (Julie, LA Times reporter U.S. Shifting Drone Focus to Taliban</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[http://2scottmontgomery.blogspot.com/2009/07/los-angeles-times-us-shifting-drones.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">But <span style="background: aqua;">the Obama ... </span>equipment to move <span style="background: aqua;">from Iraq to Afghanistan</span>.</span>

UHM... WE'RE SUBSTANTIAL
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Press TV 10</span> (US deploys 1000s drones in Afghanistan May 4 2010 </span>[[http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The US is deploying thousands ... has sent a host of its 6,500 drones to the Middle East region.</span>

MORE WARRANTS 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">*Turse 10</span> (Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction </span>[[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">What were once unacknowledged...<span style="background: aqua;">Predator and Reaper drone flights through 2013.” </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">FINALLY: PREEMPTION</span>**__</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">THE ATTEMPT TO USE TARGETED KILLING TO HUNT DOWN ROUGES RELIES ON TWO DEADLY ASSUMPTIONS: 1) THAT WE KNOW WHO THE BAD GUYS ARE 2) THAT USABLE, FAST, CONVENTIONAL RESPONSE DETERS BETTER. THEY ADVOCATE DETERRENCE THROUGH SPECTACULAR MURDER. THE RESULT IS THE NORMALIZATION OF PREEMPTION AS THE PREFEREABLE STRATEGY OF WAR. THE IMPACT IS WEAPONS SHIFT, NUCLEAR ESCALATION AND THE COLLAPSE OF U.S. HEGEMONY FROM A GLOBAL BACKLASH TO U.S. KILLINGS.</span></span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">*Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The articulation of wait ... therefore nothing short of terrifying either.</span>

PREEMPTION MUST BE REJECTED TO PREVENT FURTHER ENTRENCHMENT
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">*Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The fact remains that the ... with the preemptive is none other than but now.</span>





=Futenma: Westminster, CFL Qualifier, Jackson, Emory, NFL Southern Districts= 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan by removing the Futenma Marine Corps Air Base. The military personnel of the base will be relocated back to continental USA. We’ll clarify.</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">First is the Status Quo: </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">AFP</span> 1/1/20<span style="background: aqua;">11</span> (Japan PM ends Okinawa tour with no solution to base row, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5j_TEmwFvYHi-OnBJsOakfEQ17xtg?docId=CNG.0d88c40a839cc859c748793101909f78.9b1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Japanese <span style="background: aqua;">Prime Minister</span> ... station from Futenma to Henoko.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Mainichi 10/2/</span>20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span> (Mainichi News, Okinawa gov. tells gov't Futenma air station must be moved out of prefecture, http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20101002p2a00m0na013000c.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">NAHA -- <span style="background: aqua;">Okinawa Gov</span>. Hirokazu .. other rights <span style="background: aqua;">must not be threatened</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">AFP</span> 7/02/20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span> (AFP Newswire, Okinawa city to sue Japan over US base issue, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5jPLYb0MSl5WhGoTaofS1sES5ULXw) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">TOKYO — A Japanese city ... <span style="background: aqua;">constitution</span>, reports said</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Pal,</span> Managing Editor of The Progressive, on 6-3-20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Amitabh, “U.S. Arrogance Claims the Japanese Prime Minister”, The Progressive]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Nearly 100,000 people staged a protest</span> ...<span style="background: aqua;">The United States needs to engage in a major rethinking</span></span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Advantage 1: The Alliance</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Simpson, </span>a former U.S. ambassador, on 3-17-<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Dan, “Let's draw down our forces in Japan”, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, http://www.postgazette.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">com/pg/10076/1043306-374.stm#ixzz0ppZKrUC6]</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">U.S.-Japanese relations now are ... and moving the relationship to a new stage, </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Murphy</span>, Prof. in the MBA Program in International Business at TsukubaUniversity, on 6-8-20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[R. Taggart, “With Friends Like Us: How the Obama administration helped topple the Japanese prime minister”, The New Republic]</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">It can provoke yet another ... to continued subservience to Washington.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Faleomavaega</span>, United States House of Representative Delegate, American Samoa, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment, on 3-17, 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Eni F.H., “U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments”, Hearing of the Asia, Pacific, and the Global Environment Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In any case, <span style="background: aqua;">the most significant issue ... issue has clearly become more volatile</span> locally.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Rapp</span>, Council on Foreign Relations- Hitachi International Affairs Fellow at the Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, in <span style="background: aqua;">‘4</span>[William, , PATHS DIVERGING? THE NEXT DECADE IN THE U.S.-JAPAN SECURITY ALLIANCE, January 2004, https://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/ pdffiles/PUB367.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Because neither country has a ... for either the United States or Japan.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Asia, in the throes of historic change, ... central to America’s global security strategy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division 02 of Institute for Defense Analysis (Victor A., Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In sum, widespread <span style="background: aqua;">... bodies of dead cities or even whole nations.</span> </span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Drug trafficking is overwhelmingly responsible for the spread of AIDs</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="background: aqua;">BBC News</span> Online, “Aids explodes on trafficking routes,” 15 June, 20<span style="background: aqua;">00</span>, </span>[[@http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/778609.stm|http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/ world/asia-pacific/778609.stm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">About a year ago, researcher ... about drug users" and simply incarcerated them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Mathiu,</span> 7/15/20<span style="background: aqua;">00</span> (Mutuma, Daily Nation, “Special Report: AIDS: Devastation,”AFRICA NEWS, July 15, 2000, http://209.85.165.104/search?q=cache:6tm_9OIp4c8J:www.healtoronto.com/mbeki/Kommentare.rtf+Every+age+has+its+killer.+But+Aids+is+without+precedent.+It+is+comparable+only+to+the+Black+Death+of+the+Middle+Ages+in+the+terror+it+evokes+and+the+graves+it+fills.+But+unlike+the+plague,+Aids+does+not+come+at+a+time+of+scientific&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=us)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Every age has its killer. But A<span style="background: aqua;">ids is </span>... Aids calamity is a cloud whose silver lining, if it exists, is well concealed.</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Advantage 2: Biodiversity</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chalmers Johnson 10<span style="background: aqua;">,</span> Professor Emeritus of the University of California—San Diego, former consultant for the CIA from 1967–1973, former head of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of California—Berkeley for years, and President and Co-founder of the Japan Policy Research Institute, 2010 (“Another battle of Okinawa,” Los Angeles Times, May 6th, Available Online at http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/06/opinion/la-oe-johnson-20100506)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The United States is on the verge of ... I live) and thank the Okinawans for their 65 years of forbearance. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Shaw</span>, journalist, currently freelance, studying in Okinawa on a Fulbright scholarship, in ʻ<span style="background: aqua;">5</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[“Marines and Manatees: A Proposed U.S. Base in Okinawa Threatens Endangered Dugongs”, E-Magazine, Jan/Feb]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">When Napoleon Bonaparte was told of the peace-loving Okinawan ... several that were previously undiscovered.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Nessen 1/4/2011 (Stepehn Nessen, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/stephen-nessen/okinawa-us-marine-base-an_b_804460.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">And it's the governor of Okinawa who ... colorful ribbons and messages of peace and love.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Cousteau,</span> President, Ocean Futures Society, in ʻ<span style="background: aqua;">2K</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Jean-Michel, “What We Can't See Can Hurt Us,” Seattle Post-Intelligencer, 3/14 p. A11]</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Loss of oceanic biodiversity ... limits, and we have reached them.</span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">This risks complete eco-system collapse and human extinction. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Honnold</span>, attorney-Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, in ʻ<span style="background: aqua;">95</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Douglas, Federal Document Clearing House, 4/26]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the hustle and bustle of ... <span style="background: aqua;">into the abyss of extinction.</span></span>

<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Last Is Solvency:</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Gizzi 9/10/2010</span> (John Gizzi, Is The US-Japan Alliance In Danger, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38926)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In recent statements, ... between his country and Communist China. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Feffer,</span> co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, on 3-6-20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">[John, “Okinawa and the new domino effect”, Asia Times, </span>[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">The immediate source of </span>... Washington is doing all it can to box the new government in Tokyo into a corner.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Feffer</span>, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, on 3-6-20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[John, “Okinawa and the new domino effect”, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Not surprisingly, China's bedazzlement policy has set ... lobby doesn't want to give an inch.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">De Vries 11/30 </span>( Paul De Vries, The Japan Times, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20101130hn.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">"But North Korea </span>... actually be of use.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Shimbun</span> 1/3/20<span style="background: aqua;">11</span> (Yomiuri Shimbun, http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/editorial/T110103001801.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">This country is experiencing ... Futenma </span>Air Station in Okinawa Prefecture<span style="background: aqua;">.</span></span>

=2AC: Futenma Stategies= 
=A2: Generic Biodiversity D= 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Murray <span class="cite">**Bookchin**</span>, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, <span class="cite">**1987**</span> ("An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," //The Modern Crisis//, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108) </span>

With each such loss ... and moral integrity.

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chris J. <span class="cite">**Cuomo**</span>, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, <span class="cite">**1996**</span> (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” //Hypatia//, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 41-42) </span>

military ecocide is connected ... "ecological military mayhem"

=NEG= 
=﻿Kappeler K= 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The affirmative cedes the political sphere by asking: "what should the government do?" This focus on mega-spheres of action eclipses questions of what we would do if we were simply ourselves. This kills political activism- inculcating a spectator mentality and preventing change. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kappeler 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, **//The Will Violence: The politics of personal behavior,//** Pg. **//10- 1 1 )//** </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Yet__<span style="background: yellow;">our insight that </span>__...__values of war and violence.__ </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Blaming cultural or structural causes for violence absolves people of individual responsibility and makes the problem worse. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kappeler 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, **//The Will Violence: The politics of personal behavior,//** Pg.2-4) </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Violence is perceived as a ... remain beyond reach) __<span style="background: yellow;">are responsible</span>.__ </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Surrendering ourselves to the state and abdicating personal responsibility makes violence inevitable.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Beres, 94</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Louis Rene, Professor of International Law in the Department of Political Science at Purdue University, Spring,, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Lexis) </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">surrendering ourselves to States</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> ... ingenuity that people seek safety. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Hence, our alternative: reject the affirmative’s representations and re-conceive our violence as an issue of personal action made by individuals. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-outline-level: 3; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This alternative is the best means of resolving violent conflict. </span>**</span>

=﻿Requests= 
Email [[mailto:Kyle_Y_916@yahoo.com|Kyle_Y_916@yahoo.com]] for evidence requests

=﻿RQ'd: Round Carrollton Terror Cite= 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Yossef <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**__Bodansky__**</span></span>, director of the Congressional Task Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare for 16 years, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**__2007__**</span></span>, Chechen Jihad, page 102-105</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">But the Chechen leaders greatest...<span class="underline"><span style="background: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">__and the other in deep cavers near Qandahar.__ </span></span></span>

=RQ'd: Attack NK CP: 1NC Shell= 
<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government, specifically the Department of Defense, should assign all necessary naval and aerial forces in South Korean Military Bases to remain intact and, if necessary, also assign the U.S. military to organize and implement a strike within one year's time to eliminate all North Korean nuclear and bioterror facilities in a strategic strike to minimize civilian casualties. We'll clarify.</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">*Saunders, director of East Asia Nonprolif Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, 2003 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Phillip, “Military Options for Dealing with North Korea’s Nuclear Program”, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://cns.miis.edu/research/korea/dprkmil.htm|**http://cns.miis.edu/research/korea/dprkmil.htm**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, jb) </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;">
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">__<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">North Korea has reasonably capable air … relatively easy to destroy.</span></span>__ </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">*Bandow, Senior Fellow at the CATO Institute, 2003 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Doug, “Wrong war, wrong way, wrong time”, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb-076es.html|**http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb-076es.html**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, jb) </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Some <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">__advocates of military …__ </span></span>, according to Nicholas Kristof. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">*Carter, former assistant secretary of defense to Clinton, and Perry, former secretary of defense, 2006 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Ashton B. and William J., “If Necessary, Strike and Destroy” </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/06/21/AR2006062101518.html|**http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/06/21/AR2006062101518.html**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, jb) </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-weight: normal;">__diplomacy has failed, and … atop more and more missiles.__ </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">*Robinson 3 ("Stand-off with North Korea: War Scenarios and Consequences," Colin Robinson, CDI Research Analyst, 2003 ) </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">U.S.</span>____<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> air strikes upon the North Korean … the air through the use of precision guided bombs. </span>__</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
=<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt; text-align: justify;">RQ'D Aff Round list:</span>= 
Both affs are missing teams 

Drones: 
John's Creek ??
Westminster HH
Northview ??
Roswell R?

Futenma: 
Westminster LM
Pace KE
Central Catholic ??
Hawkins ??
Ft. Lauderdale ??
Alpharetta ??
Woodward DS
John's Creek ?? 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]