[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**Nations Aff**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I affirm. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A state is a politically organized body of people under a single government. [<span style="color: black;">wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn].</span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Nuclear weapon is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a general name given to</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> any weapon in which the explosion results from the energy released by reactions involving atomic nuclei, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">either</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> fission, fusion or both. [http://www.atomicarchive.com/Glossary/Glossary7.shtml] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Possess is to have </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and hold</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as property. [Merriam Webster] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I value an optimal foreign policy because the resolution forces states to make a policy decision. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our obligation as debaters is to act and debate in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. Shaw writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The use of …our ‘‘national interest.’’ </span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Ought is defined as desirability. A state exists to solve collective action problems. As such, a state cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable. And states care about utility over following principles. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hasnas writes[[#_ftn1|[1]]],</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The government is …person's moral intuitions.” </span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> And, Respect for the rationality of persons mandates consequentialism, since only it can treat people as ends in themselves. Cummiskey[[#_ftn2|[2]]] writes:</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">“In the next …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to save many.</span>____”__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Therefore the standard is maximizing the protection of rights.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is North Korea. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">North Korea plans to launch nuclear weapons due to current US and South Korea military training, De Young writes: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">By Karen DeYoung Saturday, July 24, 2010. North Korea threatens nuclear response to U.S.-South Korea military exercises. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">. dyn/content/article/2010/07/23/AR2010072301387.html </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">“<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/world/countries/korea.html?nav=el|North Korea]]</span> __raised …__withhold its vote.” </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">North Korean denuclearization is key to solve extinction. Lynn writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Zachary Lynn, 1/22/10. </span><span style="color: #2d5cb6; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://media.www.guilfordian.com/media/storage/paper281/news/2010/01/22/World/North.Korea.Offers.Peace.Treaty.In.Exchange.For.The.Lifting.Of.Sanctions-3855584.shtml]]</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Lusaka __-__</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If there ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">relations with North Korea.”</span> </span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10pt;">Additionally, North Korea is a gold mine for terrorists to obtain nuclear weapons, Perry writes: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">Proliferation on the Peninsula: Five North Korean Nuclear Crises Author(s): William J. Perry Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607,Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 78-86Published by: </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Sage Publications, Inc. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">in association with the </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">American Academy of Political and Social Science </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/25097840</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__“The growing nuclear …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the united states..” </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Iran. </span>

[[#_Toc132975747]]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Gregg Easterbrook [contributing editor to The Atlantic, The New Republic and The Washington Monthly, a former visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and distinguished fellow of the Fulbright Foundation]. What will Iran do with nuclear weapons? Probably nothing. Reuters. April 22, 2010. http://blogs.reuters.com/gregg-easterbrook/2010/04/22/what-will-iran-do-with-nuclear-weapons-probably-nothing/ </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“World leaders …</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">bomb by 2011.” </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, Iran has already tested nukes. 20% capability means full capability. They will have or may already have weapons grade uranium. Lopez writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Clare M. Lopez [VP, Intelligence Summit; Prof, Center for Counterintelligence and Security Studies; Former CIA Analyst]. Former CIA analyst: Tehran wants nuclear weapons for two key objectives. 2/12/10. [[http://en.trend.az/news/politics/foreign/1637970.html]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">“A: It is …clandestine sites are.” </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Additionally, Iranian proliferation has 4 major implications. Kitrie writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Orde F. Kittrie [Professor of Law at Arizona State University]. “Symposium Article: New Sanctions for a New Century: Trastury’s Innovative use of Financial Sanctions”. UPenn Journal of International Law, Vol 7089, (Spring 2009), pg 4. Lexis Nexis </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">“ </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iran's pursuit of …technology with others.” </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3 is India & Pakistan. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">India and Pakistan are in a constant stage of conflict. Vanaik writes, </span>
__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Vanaik</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Achin. Nuclear Risk Reduction Measures between India and Pakistan. Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 37, No. 28 (Jul. 13-19, 20__02__), </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">“Nuclear conflict is ….and so continuously.” </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An India/Pakistan conflict will go nuclear. Schram writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">SCHRAM: India-Pakistan nuclear risk?, By Martin Schram December 5, 2008 . [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/dec/05/india-pakistan-nuclear-risk/]] </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Once </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">again</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">terrorists … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the capitals</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. “</span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Such a conflict would kill billions. Medical news today writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine, Royal Society of Medicine, 03 Oct 2007, Medical News Today. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/84469.php]]</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Even a limited</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> from starvation alone.</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"</span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, Pakistan is likely to send nukes to terrorists. The IPPNW writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">IPPNW [Nobel Peace Prize winners 1995]. Nuclear Terrorism. Octobor 2004. Google </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The Pakistani military</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prevent unauthorized detonation.”</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Finally, Pakistan’s nuclear program opens up the ability for terrorist theft. Sagan writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Scott Sagan, Kenneth Waltz, Richard K. Betts. A Nuclear Iran: Promoting Stability or Courting Disaster. Journal of International Affairs Volume 6 Issue 2. 2007. Questia. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">“The second problem …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> seize the weapons.” </span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A nuclear detonation would be devastating. The IPPNW writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">IPPNW [Nobel Peace Prize winners 1995]. Nuclear Terrorism. Octobor 2004. Google </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“A Hiroshima-… and food supplies</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.” </span></span>
**Genocidal Mindset Aff**

The nature of morality is such that it ought be designed to guide human actions. In this sense it is a purely empirical system that is generated from and evolves with the actions that people take. Glover 
writes:
Glover, Jonathon. Humanity (Yale University Press: 1999), 406
“If there is … Kosovo seem unreal.”

The ethical imperative of preventing genocide must come prior to all other issues Adorno continues:
Adorno, Theodor (1997). Education after Auschwitz. In Helmut Schreier & Matthias Heyl (Eds.), Never again! The Holocaust's challenge for educators (pp.11-20). Hamburg: Krämer.
“Every debate about … the whole horror.”

Treating a person’s agency as able to be sacrificed for some overriding good allows for complete devaluation of human worth. Michael Dillon writes,
Michael Dillon, professor of politics and international relatoins at lancaster university, 99 political theory, april, vol 27 issue 3
“Quite the reverse. … purchase on life.”

Nuclear possession is morally repugnant because it requires a willingness to commit genocide. Lifton writes: 
Robert Jay Lifton [Professor of Psychiatry and Psychology at the Graduate School Universty Center] and Eric Markuson [Professor at South State University]. The Genocidal Mentality 1990.
“The United States … the genocidal act.”

Deterrence creates fantasies people become already morally, socially, and psychologically dead Nandy, writes:
Nandy, 97—PhD in clinical psychology and Director, Center for the Study of Developing Socieities (Ashis. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.transnational.org/forum/meet/nandy_nuclearism.html]]</span>) 
“Nuclearism does not … socially and psychologically.”


The forseeabiltiy of the consequence means that the actor is morally culpable. If actors were only bluffing it would destroy the credibility of the threat and thus break down nuclear deterrence. Steven lee 2 writes.
Steven Lee. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, April, 1985, pp. 549-566
“A number of … intention to retaliate.”

The struggle against nuclear weapons itself can liberate us from the constraints of a genocidal system that threatens our very existence. Lifton2 wites:
Robert Jay Lifton [Professor of Psychiatry and Psychology at the Graduate School Universty Center] and Eric Markuson [Professor at South State University]. The Genocidal Mentality 1990.
“The dissociation surrounding …of future victims.”

Additionally, certain states would find it rational to attack, irrespective of the vulnerability of the enemy’s arsenal because they feel their position would not be dramatically worsened if they were bombed. Berkowitz writes4, 
“First, they said, … and so on.”

Deterrence is empirically denied. Jervis explains: 
The Political Effects of Nuclear Weapons: A Comment Author(s): Robert Jervis Source: International Security, Vol. 13, No. 2 (Autumn, 1988), pp. 80-90
“Furthermore, while nuclear … unilateral dis- armament."

**Strangelove AC**
In the film Dr. Strangelove start time: 23:30 for about a min. 


Our obligation as debaters is to act and debate in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. Shaw writes, 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__The use of … our ‘‘national interest.’’__</span>

Historically, realist discourse has dominated the discussion about state possession of nuclear weapons but the prioritization of that discourse creates an arbitrary hierarchy of differing forms of insight that fails to allow for a complete evaluation of defense issues and predisposes humans to violence by sanitizing and distancing war. Bleiker writes. 
//Roland Bleiker, 2003, Professor of Political Science and International Studies – University of Queensland, “Aestheticising Terrorism: Alternative Approaches to 11 September” Australian Journal of Politics and History: Volume 49, Number 3 EBSCO, CLASSIC MW//
__“The complexities of …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> issues of defence.”</span>

In place of a political fear fetish, what we need is a critical deconstruction of the way these weapons have taken a strangle hold on our lives and politics. The AC constitutes a challenge to the way nukes are written into a culture of fear. 
**Chaloupka, Political Science** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">@ Montana, 1992</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William. __Knowing Nukes: The Politics and Culture of the Atom__. P.137-138)</span>
__“In__ Stanley __Kubrick’s…__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">cyborg at last.</span>”

Science fiction is a particularly useful realm for resisting the realist discourse present in the nuclear discussion. Franklin writes. 
<span style="color: black; line-height: 150%;">H Bruce Franklin, editor of Science Fiction Studies wrote in 1986 (__SFS__, July p115-6)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">“The dubious credit … of nuclear war.”</span>__

Show the closing montage. 


----

[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hasnas, John. Ass. Prof. Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute, 1995 </span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> Kantian Consequentialism, by David Cummiskey. Ethics 100 (April 1990), University of Chicago. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]] </span>


==Negative== 
**Rogue States:**
Prohibitions against nuclear use create the weapons as objects of desire---Coupled with the illusion of control, this latent yearning allows for the possibility of nuclear destruction. Chaloupka writes: 
Chaloupka, ‘92---Political Science at Montana (William, Knowing Nukes: The Politics and Culture of the Atom. P.61-62)
“This is my … years: “Nuke ‘em!”

The executive branch explains the intentions of rogue states. 
The Executive Branch. The National Security Strategy of the United States of America. September 2002. Google.
“In the 1990s …collection and analysis.”
Thus, rogue states pose a credible nuclear threat. 

The IPPNW quantifies the horrific impact of a nuclear detonation. 
IPPNW [Nobel Peace Prize winners 1995]. Nuclear Terrorism. Octobor 2004. Google
“A Hiroshima-sized … and food supplies.”

**Asteroids**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Probability and magnitude for a strike are 100 percent Kunich writes: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">John Kunich [Lt. Colonel USAF; J.D., Harvard Law Schoo l; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base]. 1997. 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis</span> <span style="font-size: 4pt;">“Irrespective of the ...d States Air Force. “</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Schweickart explains that nuclear warheads are necessary to prevent large asteroids from ramming into the earth and killing us all. </span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Schweickart 7 – Russell L. Schweickart, former Apollo astronaut, chairman of the B612 Foundation, March 16, 2007, “The Sky Is Falling. Really.,”</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Two</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">potential</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">deflection</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __…__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a calculated impact”</span>**

**PALs CP**
a) Text: The United States will offer permissive action link technology, hardware, and appropriate training to any nuclear weapon state, emerging or otherwise and all states will remove the high alert status of nuclear weapons. 

B) Solvency/Net Benefits:

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">First, PALs are capable of solving for theft by terrorists and accidents Hugh Gusterson writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Nuclear Weapons and the Other in the Western Imagination Author(s): Hugh Gusterson Source: Cultural Anthropology, Vol. 14, No. 1, (Feb., 1999), pp. 111-143 Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of the American Anthropological Association </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: 0in;">__“In terms …__ as rewarding proliferation. __“__ </span>

Moreover, Pals disable the nuke if they are interfered with. Fetter furthers[[#_ftn1|[1]]]:
<span style="tab-stops: 6.8in;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">[1]</span></span> <span class="FootnoteTextChar1"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Chapter 2 in Towards a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (Oslo: Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 1992), pp. 8–25 S FETTER - Foreign Affairs, 1992 - puaf.umd.edu</span></span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">“Turning to the …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> bypass the PAL.</span>__” </span>


There is no solvency deficit because states will want to maintain tight control over their nuclear arsenals giving them the incentive to accept PALs. Kenneth Waltz writes
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Kenneth Waltz, The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate, 1995, p. 20-21 </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__“Although some of …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of nuclear warheads</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.” </span></span>

And removing high-alert status greatly reduces the possibility for an accidental nuclear launch. Forrow writes, 
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">LACHLAN FORROW, M.D., BRUCE G. BLAIR, PH.D., IRA HELFAND, M.D., GEORGE LEWIS, PH.D., THEODORE POSTOL, PH.D., VICTOR SIDEL, M.D., BARRY S. LEVY, M.D., HERBERT ABRAMS, M.D., AND CHRISTINE CASSEL, M.D. </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ACCIDENTAL NUCLEAR WAR — A POST–COLD WAR ASSESSMENT. </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The New England Journal of Medicine. 1998. Google Scholar.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">“Since ballistic-missile defense …r weapons on high alert</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.” </span></span>
**Kato K**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Predictive scenarios about nuclear war ignore the on-going nuclear genocide committed against the fourth world <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kato 93</span></span> </span>
(Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">“</span>Nuclear war </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">has …</span><span class="underline"> homogeneous time and space.<span style="font-weight: normal;">”</span></span>

The notion that nuclear war causes “extinction” ignores the on-going nuclear war conducting against indigenous nations <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kato 93</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Nuclear criticism finds …</span><span class="underline"> in pseudo-universality</span>.”

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">This erasure of history is the logic that legitimizes nuclear atrocities <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kato 93</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Let us recall … on a daily basis”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">The alt forges a link to the periphery that avoids the erasure of sub-state conflict<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> Kato 93</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Frederic Jameson's proposed … of the latter.”</span>

=November-December= 
== == 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">﻿Needles Aff</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V- Optimal Policy Making</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc118253555]]contextually analyzed by Professor Lawrence Gostin, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Lawrence O. Gostin [Professor of Global Health Law, Georgetown University Law Center; director of O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law; Professor of Public Health at the Johns Hopkins University; chair of WHO project on the law and ethics of public health strategies for pandemic influenza], et al. (James F. Childress, Ruth R. Faden, Ruth D. Gaare, Jeffrey Kahn, Richard J. Bonnie, Nancy E. Kass, Anna C. Mastroianni, Jonathan D. Moreno, and Phillip Nieburg) Public Health Ethics: Mapping the Terrain. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics. Summer, 2002. 30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 170 </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The Institute of Medicine's...our discussion of ethics."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #1a1a1a;">And Philip Pettit</span><span style="color: #2a3345;"> explains how a system of universizibility logically leads to a consequentialist paradigm</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a;">: </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Philip Pettit. The Cost of Non-Consequentialism. Draft 5 Feb 1999. Google. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The upshot is that if as...value to be promoted."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. Harm reduction is the goal of all public health approaches. Rolles writes: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The evolution of the...sterile injecting equipment"."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">S- Maximizing the Protection of Rights</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Contention I- Aids</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">First, 80% of all AIDS infections are a result of sharing contaminated needles. Gafni writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Gafni et. al, ’97 (August, PhD from McMaster University, Canadian Journal of Public Health) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"AIDS is a global epidemic....will reduce transmission."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Needle exchange programs have been proven to prevent infection and continued drug use. The CDC writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">CDC, Center for Disease Control, December 2005 (CDC, Center for Disease Control, “Syringe Exchange Programs” Report to Congress, December 2005 http://www.cdc.gov/idu/facts/aed_idu_syr.pdf) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"To succeed in effectively...person infected with HIV.(13) "</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Needle exchange programs statistically solve the spread of HIV and AIDS. Jarlais writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc236037549]][[#_Toc236037610]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Moss also does not...incidence remain low."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Needle exchanges reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. An analysis of multiple case studies and test groups confirm that exchange programs are net beneficial. Wodak writes, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The above findings strongly s...findings’ has been fulfilled."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">The impact of AIDS is devastating. It kills millions each year. The WHO writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">WHO [World Health Organization]. AIDS Epidemic Update. Joint United Nations Program. 2007. Google Scholar. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The estimated number...Africa ever more clear."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Contention II- Russian Stability </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, the Russian economy is on the brink of collapse now. Borgisky writes, </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Bjorn Borgisky [ author for EconomyWatch.com: the largest online economics community in the world, targeting content covering the economy, investment, personal and global finance, statistics databases and directory listings]. Russian Economy on the Brink? //<span style="color: black;">Vladivostock, Russia, 8 June 2009</span>//<span style="color: black;">. Economy Watch. Google.</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Vladivostock, Russia, 8 June 2009. Russia, basically, is broke...for oil prices to rise."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">And, AIDS is devastating to the Russian economy. Mendelson writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Mendelson ‘2 (Sarah E., Professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Director of the Human Rights and Security Initiative at CSIS, “The Security Implications of HIV/AIDS in Russia”) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"If these projections are even...no mention of HIV and TB."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">The World Bank continues, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">World Bank, Russia Office—No Date (“The Economic Consequences of HIV in Russia.", No Date Given, http://ns.worldbank.org.ru/files/rer/RER_3.3_eng.pdf ., accessed July 27, 2009) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"HIV and AIDS have become a serious...disease can not be slowed."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Moreover, 90% of all AIDS cases in Russia are due to needle sharing. Mendelson 2 writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Mendelson et al, CSIS policy analyst, 2002 (Sarah E. Mendelson CSIS and The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and Julie Sawyer CSIS and Celeste A. Wallander CSIS “The Security Implications of HIV/AIDS in Russia” February 2002 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/pm_0245.pdf) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"AIDS came to Russia...are estimated to be HIV positive."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Russian economic decline will trigger civil war and nuclear attacks against the US. David writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">David ‘99 Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University [Steven R., “Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, LN] </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"If internal war does strike...follow a Russian civil war."</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Drug Courts NC**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V-Justice</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">S-Promoting General Welfare</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #262626;">First, drug Courts are a form of criminal justice, Steven Belenko, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">professor at the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University</span><span style="color: #262626;">, explains: </span></span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">RESEARCH ON DRUG COURTS: A CRITICAL REVIEW 2001 UPDATE by Steven Belenko, Ph.D. The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University June 2001 Dr. Belenko is one of the nation’s foremost researchers and writers on drug court programs and the impact of drug abuse on the criminal justice system. Dr. Belenko is a CASA Fellow at the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"As criminal justice...some rearrest data."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #262626;">Larry Bembry, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">Deputy Public Defender and Drug Court Director</span><span style="color: #262626;">, explains the function and goals of drug courts, </span></span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Larry L. Bembry [Deputy Public Defender. Drug Court Director], "Drug Courts" Office of the Public Defender. New Jersey. FD</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Drug Courts are effective...criminal justice system."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Drug courts have very high success in preventing recidivism. Stalcup writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Alex Stalcup [a California criminal defense, attorney]. DRUG TREATMENT COURTS IN THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY: THE EVOLUTION OF THE REVOLUTION IN PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS. Georgia Law Review. 2008. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The traditional criminal justice...extreme sensations of pleasure."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #262626;">And, drug courts dramatically reduce the rate of relapse and are more cost-effective than alternatives. Douglas Marlowe, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine</span><span style="color: #262626;">,[[#_GoBack]] writes, </span></span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Copyright (c) 2002 Villanova University Villanova Law Review, 2002, 47 Vill. L. Rev. 989, 13977 words, SYMPOSIUM: NEW VOICES ON THE WAR ON DRUGS: EFFECTIVE STRATEGIES FOR INTERVENING WITH DRUG ABUSING OFFENDERS, Douglas B. Marlowe* [MP/rwd)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"A trilogy of papers...costs related to court appearances."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**Deterrence NC**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">First, criminalization of illegal drugs decreases drug consumption with threats of incarceration and strangleholds on the drug industry. Boyum writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"> David Boyum and Peter Reuter. 2005. “An Analytic Assessment of U.S. Drug Policy.” American Enterprise Institute. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Domestic enforcement makes...accessible buying opportunities."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">And, drugs are closely intertwined with criminal activities. Boyum 2 writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> David Boyum and Pe</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">ter Reuter. 2005. “An Analytic Assessment of U.S. Drug Policy.” American Enterprise Institute.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Drugs and Crime. Active criminals...criminal activity more likely."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">These types of crimes lead to mass death. The DEA writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">DEA. "Speaking Out Against Drug Legalization." (2003). Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">"According to the [In] 1999 Arrestee...communities, families, and lives."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**Perm Off**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Perm the aff. The resolution states “public health not criminal justice” meaning forming a combination of both is negative ground. Cooperation between the two systems provides better results than just a world with public health. Using a criminal justice system is beneficial in conjunction with a public health approach, DuPont writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Dr. Robert L. DuPont Partner, Bensinger DuPont and Associates Ex-President, Institute for Behavior and Health Ex-Director, National Institute on Drug Abuse </span><span style="color: #333e4d; font-size: 6pt;">Why We Should Not Legalize Marijuana </span><span style="color: #333747; font-size: 6pt;">Published: </span><span style="color: #333e4d; font-size: 6pt;">Tuesday, 20 Apr 2010 | 12:02 AM ET</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.cnbc.com/id/36267223/Why_We_Should_Not_Legalize_Marijuana </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"An encounter with the...public safety and public health."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">And, public health approaches without criminal sanctions fail to produce positive results. Marlowe writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/scholastic/document?_m=9a47ba13da236549c88696831c77ccdb&_docnum=2&wchp=dGLzVzz-zSkVk&_md5=3c26fa9e32d6097b26f5780a2707577c|Copyright (c) 2002 Villanova University Villanova Law Review]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">, 2002, 47 Vill. L. Rev. 989, 13977 words, SYMPOSIUM: NEW VOICES ON THE WAR ON DRUGS: EFFECTIVE STRATEGIES FOR INTERVENING WITH DRUG ABUSING OFFENDERS, Douglas B. Marlowe* [CNT/Cole] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"It is self-evident that...within two to six months."</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**START DA**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START will pass – it is the highest priority for the administration – our evidence assumes the recent midterms results</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Young 11/3/10 (Stephen, “New Senate, New START on Track,” <span style="color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://allthingsnuclear.org/tagged/by_Stephen_Young]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Yesterday’s election results...ratify New START."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital. Keating writes, </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"In a column last May...the tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Obama’s political capital is key—must win GOP support</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">James Kitfield, Friday, Oct. 9, 2009 (James Kitfield has written on defense, national security and foreign policy issues from Washington, D.C. for over two decades, “Wars, Political Battles Complicate Obama Effort to Prevent Spread of Nuclear Weapons”, National Journal,<span style="color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20091009_8675.php]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Because arms control...but he'll pay a price."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Passage key to catalyze US-Russian relations – failure to ratify makes dealing with great challenges impossible</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Voice of Russia 10/26/10 (“US security will weaken unless START is ratified,” <span style="color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/10/26/28537726.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"A group of US Generals...some very real threats."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Result Is Nuclear War. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cohen 10—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The Soviet Union was in control of its nuclear...can connect these dots."</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 


There are three sections to the affirmative case.  

Part one, interpretational issues: 

‘Charged’ indicates the starting point for resolutional arguments, but provides no end point. The term “criminal justice system” indicates the scope of the resolution. Frase and Weidner write,
Richard S. Frase [Professor of Criminal Law, University of Minnesota Law] & Robert R. Weidner [Associate Professor, Univeristy of Minnesota @ Deluth]. Criminal Justice System - Structural And Theoretical Components Of Criminal Justice Systems, The Systems In Operation, The Importance Of Viewing Criminal Justice As A System http://law.jrank.org/pages/858/Criminal-Justice-System.html#ixzz1A69oqnSa

Criminal justice systems include...in criminal justice issues.

The resolution is only a question between deterrence and rehab. Chamberlin explains the division of ground on the topic. 
Copyright (c) 2001 Boston College Law School Boston College Law Review March, 2001 42 B.C. L. Rev 391 LENGTH: 17209 words NOTE: Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System NAME: Christine Chamberlin 

Although the current juvenile...as productive citizens.

This interpretation is good for debate for the following reasons. 
First, ground. 
Second, strategy construction. 

Part two is the evaluative framework. We defend a post fiat utility calculus that models governmental decision-making. A state cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable. Public policy must look at the consequences first and act as a collective body. Goodin writes, 
[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of Political Theory, Public Policy, and Applied Ethics. Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy. Cambridge University Press, 1995. p. 26-7]

The great adventure of...defensible public philosophy.

And the affirmative should be able to choose a framework to defend as long as that framework is both comparative and sufficient. Affirmative Framework Choice solves issues of competitive equity. O’Donnell writes,
“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” Timothy M. O’Donnell Director of Debate University of Mary Washington 

Second, AFC ensures...discuss half the time.

And, AFC ensures the education of debates. O’Donnell 2 writes,
“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” Timothy M. O’Donnell Director of Debate University of Mary Washington 

Third, AFC has...where this is possible.

Part three is the contention. I contend deterrence decreases crime rates.

First, trying juveniles in adult courts generally deters other juveniles. Youth who are sent through the adult system face higher incarceration rates and punishment than in juvenile systems. Steinberg writes.
“Social Welfare and Fairness in Juvenile Crime Regulation” Elizabeth S. Scott* and Laurence Steinberg** 71 La. L. Rev. 35. 2010. Elizabeth Scott is the Harold R. Medina Professor of Law at Columbia University. Laurence Steinberg is the Laura Carnell Distinguished University Professor at Temple University.

Youths who are convicted...a juvenile facility.

And, these higher incarceration rates empirically decrease the number of crimes committed. Yahya writes,
Moin A. Yahya. Deterring Roper's Juveniles: Using a Law and Economics Approach to Show that the Logic of Roper Implies
that Juveniles Require the Death Penalty More Than Adults” Summer, 2006 111 Penn St. L. Rev. 53 Assistant Professor of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. J.D., George Mason University

The economist Steven Levitt ...opportunities for juveniles. n175 

In addition, further studies have shown that the possibility of entering the adult criminal justice system deters juveniles. Yahya 2 writes,
Moin A. Yahya. Deterring Roper's Juveniles: Using a Law and Economics Approach to Show that the Logic of Roper Implies
that Juveniles Require the Death Penalty More Than Adults” Summer, 2006 111 Penn St. L. Rev. 53 Assistant Professor of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. J.D., George Mason University

Professor Levitt also...majority was eighteen.

[[#_Toc158815420]] Abrams writes,
David Abrams [University of Pennsylvania Law School and Wharton]. Building Criminal Capital vs Specific Deterrence: The Effect of Incarceration Length on Recidivism. 2009. JEL Classifications.

Region 3 contains about ...by behavioral biases (salience, etc).

This is statistically verified. Hjalmarsson writes,
Copyright (c) 2009 The University of Chicago The Journal of Law & Economics November, 2009 52 J. Law & Econ. 779 LENGTH: 12198 words ARTICLE: Juvenile Jails: A Path to the Straight and Narrow or to Hardened Criminality? NAME: Randi Hjalmarsson, University of Maryland BIO: The data utilized in this paper were housed in and made available by the National Juvenile Court Data Archive, which is maintained by the National Center for Juvenile Justice in Pittsburgh, and supported by a grant from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Department of Justice. These data were originally collected by the Office of the Administrator for the Courts, State of Washington. 

Similarly, there are numerous... answer this question. 

And, the impact of juvenile crime is staggering. They commit millions of crimes each year. The Online Lawyer Source writes, 
Online Lawyer Source. Juvenile Crime Statistics. Online research center for legal topics. 2010. http://www.onlinelawyersource.com/criminal_law/juvenile/statistics.html

Juvenile crime statistics...and 34 percent are strangers. 



==Negative== 
**Rehab CP**

A)Text – Juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be placed into Multisystemic Therapy programs, not treated as adults.
B) Net Benefits:

Prison sentences for juveniles increases recidivism rates and undermines the development of kids into responsible adults. Slobogin writes:
(2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO*)
"﻿Two preliminary points ...causes of crime."

MST programs decrease recidivism rates and are cost effective. Slobogin writes:

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO*)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Another highly successful program... spent on MST.92"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Rehab CP 2</span>

Text – Violent juvenile offenders should be tried in courts guided by the rehabilitative model, and if deemed necessary be placed in Multisystemic Therapy programs instead of being incarcerated. 


Net Benefits: 
Its not a criminal proceeding so they don’t need due process rights for juvenile courts. Scott explains the courts: 
Scott, Elizabeth S., and Laurence D. Steinberg. Rethinking Juvenile Justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2008. Print. 
“For much of … for delinquent youths.” 

Prison sentences for juveniles increases recidivism rates and undermines the development of kids into responsible adults. Slobogin writes: 
SUBMISSION COPY--NOT FOR CIRCULATION OR DISTRIBUTION 2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO* 
“Two preliminary points … causes of crime.” 

The changes in the way that the court system functions lead to a system of rehabilitation called Multisystemic therapy. Tyler explains Multisystemic Therapy: 
The Toronto Star November 12, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION Pilot project a new tactic on teen crime Program focuses on family of young offenders BYLINE: By Tracey Tyler TORONTO STAR SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12 LENGTH: 656 wordget 
“Case workers visit … of the problem." 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==