=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Counterplans</span>= 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[2010-2011 — Kinkaid (TX) — Vivek Datla & Zach Rosenthal|Back to main page]]</span></span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Bilateral Defense Treaties CP </span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Text: The United States federal government should negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan. The United States should adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and should provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline. The United States should freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**The counterplan formalizes the US commitment to Afghanistan, gets Pakistan on board and demoralizes the Taliban – they can no longer wait us out**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Lynch 8 -** U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">In mid-January, Defense Secretary … ducked for far too long.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Shifting to a population centered counterinsurgency mission solves the problem of Taliban recruiting and attrition tactics - it’s empirically effective**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Tellis 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Reorienting the counterinsurgency campaign. The … quite inhospitable to their operations.82</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Training the ANA is vital to successful counterinsurgency – it will free up US personnel because it will be able to hold terrain that the US clears**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Tellis 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The experience with counterinsurgency operations… want of ability or enthusiasm.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Solves Pakistan</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long-term commitment solves Pakistan funding terrorism and momentum </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This approach, which concentrates on strengthening the state from the inside out through an area ownership effort, is ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> especially the exiled leadership in Quetta, will begin to look more and more questionable.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP would enhance Pakistan’s cooperation</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Lynch 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - U.S. Army Colonel</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Pakistani leaders have</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> much more justification ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Asia <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">rather than a</span>n<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> threat.</span></span>__</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Solves Tactics/Population Protection</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That empirically works—they were pursued successfully in 2003-2005 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although maintaining such fire discipline will increase the risk of coalition ... those secured by fighting the regime in Kabul.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Solves Corruption</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Columbia had no strong state or rule of law – corruption was the same and the strategy still worked </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of //Small Wars Journal//, writes the “This Week at War” column for //Foreign Policy//, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for //The American// (Robert, “Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,” //<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/home.htm|Air & Space Power Journal]]</span>// - <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10.html|Summer 2010]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">In the</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> mid-to-late<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> 1990s, the rule of law in Colombia was ...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the time one of the army’s elite units.13 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Karzai doesn’t make the insurgency inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the majority of the Afghan population is not opposed to the... don’t want to return to is the Taliban.”89 </span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2NC Solves Nationalism</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Training the ANA solves nationalism </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon and Shejan, 10</span>****-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael O’hanlon, senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues, and Hassina Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for education, (2010, “Toughening it out in Afghanistan,” p.90-96)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The quality of the Afghan police also matters. Many police ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and needs strengthening as well as enlarging. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; position: relative; top: -3.5pt;">6 </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2NC AT Illiteracy </span>=== 



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo solves illiteracy—private companies </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Ricks 9</span>** **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Contributing editor for Foreign Policy, Special military correspondent for the Washington Post (9/16/2009, Thomas, “Afghanistan: Who’s stupid now?”, <span style="color: black;">http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/16/afghanistan_who_s_stupid_now</span>) MGM </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stories like this from the Associated Press drive me nuts. The Afghan army is "hard to train." Why? Because </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">the soldiers are illiterate. Pop quiz: How many of the Spartans at Thermopalye were literate? One...</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that Americans tend to think people who are illiterate are stupid. They are not, especially in a country like Afghanistan. </span>__</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran Prolif CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States federal government should offer formal security guarantees to Israel, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, and all Gulf States except Iran to protect them in the event of Iranian aggression. The United States should inform Iran that the use of nuclear weapons, by Iran or by a terrorist proxy, will be met with a response that ends the current regime in Iran, and that an Iranian nuclear test constitutes a redline that could trigger stepped up United States attempts at regime change or United States attacks against Iranian oil assets. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Security assurances to the Gulf States solve the impact to proliferation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Madson, 06** – master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School (Peter, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”, March, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This status of nuclear-weapon programs in the region is a... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="underline2"><span style="border: initial none initial;">for these nations will be to expand security guarantees with the United States by joining a nuclear umbrella to offset Iran’s nuclear weapons</span></span>.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Cards</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security assurances to the Gulf States solve the impact to proliferation</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson, 06</span>** – master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School (Peter, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”, March, [[http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This status of nuclear-weapon programs in the region is a key component to further proliferation. Compared to Iran, the Arab Gulf States, have not yet initiated a nuclear program. It is at this point, …<span class="underline2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">guarantees with the United States by joining a nu<span style="border: none;">clear umbrella to offset Iran’s nuclear weapons</span></span></span>. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only a credible, unified threat of force will cause Iran to give up nuclear weapons—if it sees the choice between nuclear weapons and regime survival, it will choose survival </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Kedar, 07</span>__** (4/1, Mordechai, lecturer in the Department of Arabic at Bar-Ilan University, and a research associate at the Begin-Sadat (BESA) Center for Strategic Studies, “The Iranian Dilemma: Preventing Iran from Acquiring Nuclear Capabilities”, [[http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives27.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The experience in recent years has proven that negotiations have no chance …They are not mad and well understand the nature of the threat. </span>



==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lexington COIN CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**TEXT: The United States federal government should** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Cut funding provided to Kabul and allow funds not spent in one year to roll over to the next** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Provide commanders with enablers they need for tactical success, including but not limited to CH-47 helicopters, drones, and observation blimps** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Commit more special forces teams to the training of the Afghanistan Police Force** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Compile a list of corrupt officials and leverage the threat of investigations and prosecution against them** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Publically announce a firm, long-term US commitment to winning the war and Afghanistan and clarify that there is no withdrawal deadline** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Provide the full 600 million to the Afghan Government for the purpose of implementing its National Justice Sector Strategy** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **offer to Pakistan to cooperate on a civilian nuclear deal and a trade deal if Pakistan helps the United States win the war in Afghanistan.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **create a long-term defense cooperation agreement with Afghanistan that safeguards Pakistan’s sovereignty and offers formal, U.S.-mediated discussions between Afghanistan and Pakistan to resolve the Durand Line boundary dispute** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **<span style="color: black;">train and equip Pakistani Army Special Forces to properly conduct counterterrorism operations; expand Pakistani military participation in U.S. military exchange programs</span>** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The counterplan wins the war and prevents Pakistan from hedging their bets** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Exum 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew Exum is a fellow at the Center for a New American Security. He recently co-authored a policy paper with Lt. Gen. (Ret.) David Barno for the Center for a New American Security on the transition of power in Afghanistan following the U.S. drawdown of forces, served in Afghanistan from 2002-2004, and served on McChrystal’s assessment team in 2009, December 15, “5 Ways to Win the War in Afghanistan”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/12/15/5_ways_to_win_the_war_in_afghanistan?page=0,0, accessed December 18, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the daily tactical battles in Afghanistan might seem distant, and the strategic challenges…</span> __scoring some strategic successes back home.__ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The 600 million solves corruption** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Miller 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D—Assistant Professor of International Security Studies at the National Defense University. He served as Director for Afghanistan in the U.S. National Security Council under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, from September 2007 to September 2009, December 13, “Finish the Job”, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67028/paul-d-miller/finish-the-job, accessed December 19, 2010, ZR] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the international community did not prioritize</span>____…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> corruption</span>, and Afghanistan was no exception.__ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Shifting to a population centered counterinsurgency mission solves the problem of Taliban recruiting and attrition tactics - it’s empirically effective** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Tellis 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Reorienting the counterinsurgency campaign.** __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: windowtext; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The third important</span>____… the political environment within Afghanistan was quite inhospitable to their operations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.82 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Approving DOD’s budget solves all of their readiness and equipment impacts** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Chiarelli 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[General Peter Chiarelli, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 3-16, “Military Services’ Operation & Maintenance,” testimony before the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness, CQ Congressional Testimony] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As all of you know, </span>__it has been a busy time… and Family Members around the world.__ </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__2NC Corruption i/l o/w__</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Corruption internal link outweighs** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cavendish 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Julius—writer for the Christian Science Monitor, 4/12, “In Afghan war, official corruption is a bigger threat than the Taliban”, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/04/12/92007/in-afghan-war-official-corruption.html, accessed December 22, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">KANDAHAR, Afghanistan — Over the past month… share of construction contracts with NATO at the big Kandahar airfield by monopolizing the market and disenfranchising rivals in less powerful tribes. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2NC Solving Government Solves Terrorism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**If we win the CP solves the government it means we also solve terrorism** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Miller 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul D—Assistant Professor of International Security Studies at the National Defense University. He served as Director for Afghanistan in the U.S. National Security Council under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, from September 2007 to September 2009, December 13, “Finish the Job”, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67028/paul-d-miller/finish-the-job, accessed December 19, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The Taliban were able to regroup</span>____…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> of this anarchic situation."</span>__ </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__2NC Solves Heg__</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Funding the DOD budget allows them to FULLY RESTORE readiness and equipment and meet all future challenges by 2012 – They have to prove someone will challenge us before then** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Chiarelli 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[General Peter Chiarelli, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 4-14, “Military Readiness,” Testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness & Management Support, CQ Congressional Testimony]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As all of you know, it has been a busy time for our…</span> __Force__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Congress remains a vital partner in this shared endeavor. </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2NC Generic Solvency</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The counterplan solves** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Curtis and Phillips 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lisa Curtis—senior research fellow at the Heritage Institute, James Phillips—Senior Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs at the Heritage Institute, 12/17, “Afghan Review Shows Troop Surge Working”, http://heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/12/Afghan-Review-Shows-Troop-Surge-Working, accessed December 22, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stop Talking About Deadlines. President </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Obama’s announcement</span>____… involved in corruption wherever possible.__ </span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__2NC Empirics__</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP empirically works** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Grant 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[George Grant, Governance, Strategy, & Terrorism Section Direct at the Henry Jackson Society, M.A. in History from the University of Edinburgh, & M.A. in Investegitative Journalism from City University in London, 9-7, “Succeeding in Afghanistan ,” HJS Report, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%25|http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%]]</span>2 0in%20Afghanistan.pdf] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The argument that has run throughout this report is not only that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the conflict</span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possibility of lasting - as opposed to merely temporary - progress.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT ANA Fails</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Troop levels ahead of schedule** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Defence News 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[12/10, “Afghan Army progresses to greater independence”, http://www.mod.uk/DefenceInternet/DefenceNews/MilitaryOperations/AfghanArmyProgressesToGreaterIndependence.htm, accessed December 22, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The presence of NATO forces in</span>____… Security Forces__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and that the target for withdrawing UK combat troops by 2015 was achievable.</span></span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>ban the testing and deployment of any weapons in outer space </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>ban any “dedicated” ASAT weapons </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>acknowledge China’s concerns and assure them that a missile defense system will not target China and be restricted to the minimum required for dealing with rogue states </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>exclude Taiwan in the U.S.-Japan TMD plan </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>establish a joint collaboration on BMD with Russia and negotiate an agreement to not target Moscow. This should include sharing of early warning data and collaboration on command and control. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CP solves the aff </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Zhang 6</span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">[</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/experts/13/hui_zhang.html?back_url=%2Fpublication%2F754%2Fspace_weaponization_and_space_security.html%3Fbreadcrumb%3D%252F%253F%28none%29&back_text=Back%20to%20publication|Hui Zhang]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, Project on Managing the Atom, "Space Weaponization and Space Security: A Chinese Perspective", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/|China Security]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, Vol 2, Issue 1]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">At this stage, it would be difficult to persuade …</span> __States would acknowledge and understand__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Civilian Control CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States federal government should remove the political role for the United States military in Afghanistan and return funding and jurisdiction to the State Department</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Solves**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dr. Farley, Prof. Diplomacy @ University of Kentucky, Oct. 20, 2010 </span>

<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [ </span>

<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Dr. Robert Farley is an assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce at the University of Kentucky</span>** </span>

<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>

<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Over the Horizon: Warning Signs in U.S. Civil-Military Relations [Shades of "Oathkeepers?"], World Politics Review ^ | October 20, 2010 | Professor Robert Farley]</span>**</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Since 2001, civil-military disputes have grown more …</span>**</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **__and other civilian agencies.__** **The __assignment of political roles__ to military officers invites, and indeed almost __requires, a breakdown in the traditional conception of civil-military relations__** </span>

<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**.**</span>





==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Japan Relations CP**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">TEXT: The United States federal government should</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">continually hold strategic dialogues with Japan on important issues such as climate change and energy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">increase cooperation with Japan on security issues through close cooperation between US and Japan forces</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">mandate that the US be responsible for cleaning up polluted soil and that it set up environmental standards similar to those on bases in US soil</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">CP solves relations</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 11pt;">The Daily Yomiuri 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[6/20, Japan's largest English-language newspaper, “Talks needed to boost Japan-U.S. alliance,” pg online @ lexis]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Making ties even stronger <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Japan and the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>nited ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> chant, "The Japan-U.S. alliance is the foundation of Japan's diplomacy."</span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Solvency</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP solves the alliance and warming – however 1AC author concedes security alliance is a bigger internal link</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calder 2/1 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kent E.—Director of Reischaucer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 2010, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.-JAPAN COOPERATION”,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]</span>”]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Active U.S.</span>____‐____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan cooperation on energy and ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of embedded political interests in both countries.</span>__</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Consult NATO**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**The plan risks international backlash – consultation over military policy facilitates acceptance and blunts perceptions of US unilateralism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell & Ward 2003</span>** Senior Fellows @ the Council on Foreign Relations(Kurt & Celeste, September/October, Foreign Affairs,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20030901faessay82507/kurt-m-campbell-celeste-johnson-ward/new-battle-stations.html?mode=print]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given the sensitivity … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in diplomatic priorities.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Consultation and Communication are key to the NATO alliance</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: silver; text-decoration: none;">Chernoff 95</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">—</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Associate Professor of Political Science at Colgate Univ (1995, Fred, after bipolarity p 10)</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The policies based …</span> are not repeated</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Collapse of NATO causes immediate instability that escalates to superpower nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**John <span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">O'Sullivan</span></span><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">,</span>** editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-19<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span> [American Spectator]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Some of those … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">of European stability</span></span>.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Condition on Denuclearization Counterplan</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**TEXT: The United States federal government should offer to implement a reduction of its military presence in the Republic of Korea if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea agrees to verifiably dismantle its nuclear program.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Only the CP solves—concessions are critical to de-nuclearization**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Horowitz 5</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[*doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">One goal clearly articulated by the North Korean regime ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">forestall resolution of the nuclear issue</span>**</span>__**__<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;"> with indefinite demands. </span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Unconditional withdrawal __crushes__ deterrence**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Cronin et al 94</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[*Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS, 6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a U.S. withdrawal</span> based on a credible non-proliferation ...____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> and Japanese decisions to re</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">­</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">arm and</span>____/or <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">shift Japan's nuclear program towards</span> weapons <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">production</span>.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cirincione 2k</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[*Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">regional and global economic and political instability and</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">45</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Say Yes</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**North Korea will accept the offer—__but__, if given the opportunity it will pocket the concession and ramp up its demands** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cronin et al 94</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [*Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS, 6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">OPTION 6: </span>__<span style="font-weight: normal;">NEGOTIATED <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">REDUCTION OF</span> THE <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE</span> IN SOUTH KOREA </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This option at present has only...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">without making concessions</span>**, and even increasing its demands.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**North Korea will say yes**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Choi **6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [*visiting professor at the College of International Relations, Ritsumeikan University and senior research fellow at Korea Institute for National Unification, Jinwook, Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, “The North Korean Domestic Situation and Its Impact on the Nuclear Crisis,” Vol. 15, pp.1-18, http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/CHOI.pdf] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korea seems to be determined to maintain ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">hard-line policy towards the North. It will also strengthen its ties with Russia and China.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if North Korea “says no”, the CP builds international support </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz 5</span>** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">[*doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">It is currently unclear whether Pyongyang would agree </span>__ ... <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">the economic benefits of broken promises will not lead to a sustainable solution.</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT Perm Do Both</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Severance—they sever the word should because the aff is no longer definite—severance is a VI b/c it makes the aff a moving target and destroys all neg ground</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Summer 94</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Justice, Oklahoma Supreme Court, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>**Should" not only is used as a "present indicative" synonymous with ought ... obligation to include the requested segment); State v. Rack, 318 S.W.2d 211, 215 (Mo. 1958) ("should" would mean the same as "shall" or "must" when used in an instruction to the jury which tells the triers they "should disregard false testimony").</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iraq Uniqueness CP</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TEXT: The United States federal government should keep all of its forces in Iraq until the training of the Iraqi army and police is finished.</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Withdrawal </span>****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">without </span>__****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">completing training causes terrorism, Middle Eastern civil wars, oil price spikes, Iranian invasion of the Middle East, destroys US hegemony, disease starvation and violence, would turn Iraq into Lebanon on steroids, and turns the case because the US would be forced to intervene </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bukay 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ph.D, teaches political science at the University of Haifa, specializes in Middle Eastern affairs (David, “Should the U.S. Immediately Begin Withdrawal from Iraq?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.answerbag.com/debates/us-immediately-withdrawal-iraq_1855460]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">At least five likely consequences would flow </span>__ ... __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No internal power, even regional exists to take the mission. "Fortress America" is not an option.</span>__</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greenhill CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The United States federal government should**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- limit the number and intensity of training exercises conducted at Futenma while increasing dialogue with Okinawa locals over how to reduce community intrusion**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- allow Japan to assume partial operation control of the III Marine Expeditionary Force**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- pursue a bilateral agreement with Japan affirming a joint commitment to a continued, long-term US air presence at Kadena and naval presence at Yokosuka**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability as quickly as possible aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- cooperate with Japan in issues related to the economy, trade, and healthcare**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- permanently station a second carrier task force near Taiwan**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- further develop and forward deploy Trident SSGNs and UAVs around Taiwan**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **- create and maintain a formal mechanism for cooperation on science and technology**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Partial restructuring is enough to solve the aff**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Chaffin 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Foreign Policy in Focus (Greg, 10/5, FPIF, “Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the meantime, </span>the status quo holds<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The United States </span>…they currently lack, as well as engage in the democratic process. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Seabasing solves—makes the aff unnecessary**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Houck 5</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lt. Colonel Dale, USMC, “USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT SEABASING: A CRITICAL ENABLER OF THE JOINT EXPEDITIONARY FORCE”, 3-18, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil224.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Sea basing</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is an operational concept that </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">will enable </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…which are located along the world’s littorals.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Economic and healthcare cooperation solves the alliance**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cronin and Kilman 11/12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Patrick M. Cronin and David M. Kilman—writers for the Christian Science Monitor, 2010, “US-Japan alliance is ripe for renewal”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2010/1112/US-Japan-alliance-is-ripe-for-renewal, accessed November 28, 2010, ZR]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Obama and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prime Minister </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kan have no </span>…marks the inflection point between a period of drift and alliance renewal.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**1AC author concedes putting the carrier task force there solves and that the status quo solves the aff through increased submarine basing**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Ross 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations”, accessed November 25, 2010, ZR]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the U.S. forward presence at Kadena,</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> a carrier task </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…accompli strategy cannot compensate for China's vulnerability to a rapid U.S. preemptive strategic strike as a prelude to intervention.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**1AC Bloch evidence concedes that a formal mechanism for science and technology cooperation solves their defense advantage**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Bloch 97</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Erich, National Research Council, Maximizing U.S. Interests in Science and Technology Relations with Japan, Committee on Japan Framework Statement and Report of the Competitiveness Task Force, National Research Council, accessed November 27, 2010, ZR]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span>tates <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">must</span> continue to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">build a</span> long-term, integrated …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forum which is involved with defense-related R&D cooperation. But these discussions could include others as appropriate.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Aircraft Carriers Solve</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Here’s more ev – aff Ross evidence concludes neg on aircraft carriers**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ross 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations”, accessed November 25, 2010, ZR]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Confidence in its deterrence capabilities …strategy could deter U.S. defense of Taiwan.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Afghanistan/Iraq Humanitarian PIC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">TEXT: The United States federal government should</span>****<span style="color: black;"> eliminate its military and police presence in Afghanistan except for operations that provide food, water and medical aid to people living in Afghanistan.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;"> The United States should continue these operations – distinct from stabilization operations that people hate.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;"> Donini 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Researcher, Feinstein Center, Tufts University (Antonio, “ Afghanistan: Humanitarianism under Threat.” Briefing paper, Humanitarian Agenda 2015: Principles, Power, and Perceptions. </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://wikis.uit.tufts.edu/confluence/download/attachments/22520580/Donini-Afghanistan.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Our findings suggest that __there is a strong case for ….__ that supports them, there are two key areas where urgent attention is needed. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">In Afghanistan these humanitarian operations saves lives from starvation</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;"> Donini 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Researcher, Feinstein Center, Tufts University (Antonio, “ Afghanistan: Humanitarianism under Threat.” Briefing paper, Humanitarian Agenda 2015: Principles, Power, and Perceptions. </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://wikis.uit.tufts.edu/confluence/download/attachments/22520580/Donini-Afghanistan.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> There is no __humanitarian consensus__ in ….__<span style="background: yellow;"> Afghans and for the future of humanitarianism worldwide.</span>__</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Warming CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">**TEXT: The United States federal government should provide financial incentives and subsidies to all fossil fuel plants in the United States to use Skyonic Skymine carbon captures technology to convert carbon dioxide emissions into sodium bicarbonate for commercial sale. The federal government should make this eligible for all emission reduction and carbon tax policies.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**That solves 90% of warming emissions** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kanellos</span>** **11/27/<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">07</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, CNET News Staff Writer, “Can baking soda curb global warming?” </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://news.cnet.com/Can-baking-soda-curb-global-warming/2100-13838_3-6220127.html] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">scientists have</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proposed compressing carbon dioxide and sticking...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Creating sodium bicarbonate would</span>__ __probably <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">be the best solution</span>.__</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regionalism CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regionalism prevents conflict escalation and nuclear war --- bilateralism fails</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Swanstorm 5 <span class="Heading2Subtext"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Niklas, *Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, USA. Dr. Swanström’s specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, http://www.isdp.eu/images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf]</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the end of the Cold War, states, regional and ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(international or state level), but more research is needed on this issue before any conclusions can be drawn.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">China-US Relations CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 2.25pt; margin-right: 2.15pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Text: The United States federal government should:** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 54.25pt; margin-right: 2.15pt; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Engage in strategic military dialogues with China** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 14pt; margin-left: 54.25pt; margin-right: 2.25pt; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Sustain and Strengthen military-to-military links with China**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 14pt; margin-left: 54.25pt; margin-right: 2.25pt; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- **Assess the military dynamic over Taiwan** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 14pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 2.25pt; margin-top: 0in;">**CP Solves China Relations** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 14pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 2.25pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Swaine, 2/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Senior associate of </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the Carnegie Endowment after 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations. Carnegie Endowment, February 16, 2011, Avoiding U.S.-China Military Rivalry, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42645, ben mitchell]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; margin-bottom: 14pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 2.25pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The assumption that military competition will ultimately lead to a Cold-War type...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">however, </span>__progress on strategic issues will be limited__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, hostility could grow, and both sides could become more resolute about defending their respective military objectives. </span></span></span>