[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Greenhill Round 2:
Value: Societal Welfare
Society is peoples connected by communication, thus the whole world is what matters.
Criterion: Minimizing harms to the environment
The only threat to society is the environment. Other potential threats can be stopped through containment and communication.
Contention 1: Nuclear Fission is bad

Sub A) Use of nuclear fission is detrimental.
Fission materials are the key components to nuclear weapons. The plants to make these are threats, as proven by the past. Alex Rosen (Effects of the Chernobyl Catastrophe” Heinrich-Heine University Düsseldorf, Germany January of 2006 http://www.ippnw.org/ResourceLibrary/Chernobyl20Rosen.pdf)
“On Saturday, April 26th… Germany measured a 70% rise. 3”
The Damage of plant leakage. Alex Rosen (Effects of the Chernobyl Catastrophe” Heinrich-Heine University Düsseldorf, Germany January of 2006 http://www.ippnw.org/ResourceLibrary/Chernobyl20Rosen.pdf)
“80-90% of the radiation… depression and suicide rates”


Sub b) Nuclear Weapons have an adverse effect on the world
Any small nuclear weapon firing would harm the climate. Lin, 2006 (Han, Editor of China View, “Small Nuclear War Could Disrupt Global Climate”, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2006-12/12/content_5473123.htm, December 12, 2006) BEIJING, Dec. 12 (Xinhuanet)
“A small-scale, regional… even ozone depletion.”
The explosion of urban areas will cause a release of chemicals Phillips, 2000 (Dr. Alan, Nuclear War Revisited, http://peace.ca/nuclearwinterrevisited.htm) “there would be an absolutely …damaged storage tanks”
Damage of these said chemicals. Phillips, 2000 (Dr. Alan, Nuclear War Revisited, http://peace.ca/nuclearwinterrevisited.htm) “The reduction in the… animals would fail”

==Negative== 

Greenhill Round 1:

Value: Government obligations
Governments are only institutionalized because their people create them, so the government’s obligation is to its people.

Governments have many tools to protect its people; we are debating whether or not nukes should be one of them.

Criterion: Minimizing external conflict
Wars and international squabbles cause major effects on the citizens within.

Contention: Nuclear weapons prevent major conflict
Countries that were once pugnacious have less conflict after acquiring nukes. Tepperman, 2009 [Jonathan, Newsweek International's first Assistant Managing Editor (now Deputy Editor), “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” 8-29, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html] “The iron logic of… had to do to avoid it”
Presence of nukes make states more cautious. Kenneth Waltz, (Emeritus Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley and Adjunct Senior Research Scholar at Columbia University, past President of the American Political Science Association, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 2003, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate) “war can be fought… is further inhibited.”


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]