[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Contention 1 is inherency**
**The U.S. plans to keep forces in S. Korea until 2012**
**Bakanic et al 08**; (Elizabeth Bakanic, Mark Christopher, Sandya Das, Laurie Freeman, George Hodgson, Mike Hunzeker, R. Scott Kemp, Sung Hwan Lee, Florentina Mulaj, Ryan Phillips; all part of Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School of International Affairs); January 2008; Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt; http://wws.princeton.edu/research/pwreports_f07/wws591f.pdf 

Transformation of the U.S.- South … the timetable for OPCON transfer. 

**Thus the plan:**
**The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence in the Republic of Korea.**
**﻿**

**Contention 2 is Korean Conflict**

**U.S. deterrence fails and encourages N. Korea to engage in future provocations**
**Cha 10;** (Victor Cha, published author, writes for CSIS, professor at Georgetown University); July 2010; “US Korea Relations: The Sinking of the Cheonan”; http://csis.org/files/publication/1002qus_korea.pdf 
Several aspects of the incident … activities” to the Cheonan incident. 


**The status quo is is fundamentally different than the past – the chance of a major miscalculation and global escalation is possible now in five different ways**
**Sanger, 10** (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html, JMP) 
USUALLY, there is a familiar cycle … North Korea found its customers. 

**Quick attacks are the best way for Kim Jong Il to get political victories—means there’s a short time frame because of irrationality.**
**Lee, 10** (5/27/10, Jean H., writer for the Associated Press, The Associated Press, “Analysis: Attack May Be Tied to NKorean Succession”, http://www.lexisnexis.com) 
Young, inexperienced and virtually unknown … to make his political debut. 

**Also, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf**)**

The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. 


**U.S. presence makes provocations inevitable**
**Bandow, 10 –** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336, JMP) 



Suspicions continue to mount that … doing so in 2010 is bizarre. 


**Withdrawal is necessary to prevent U.S. entanglement in Korean conflicts – there is no need to show resolve when our interests aren’t at stake**
**Bandow, 10 –** senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (5/24/10, Doug, “Avoiding Pyongyang,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432, JMP) 


After an investigation of nearly … to the South Korean people. 



**Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unauthorized**
**ICG, 09** (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx, JMP) 
This report examines North Korea’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities in the context of its military doctrine and national objectives. It is based on open source literature, interviews and unpublished documents made available to Crisis Group. Companion reports published simultaneously assess the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities and what the policy response of the international community should be to its recent nuclear and missile testing.[1] 
North Korea’s programs to develop… unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents. 


**North Korean bioweapons use would spread globally within six weeks – greater risk that nuclear weapons**
**Levy, 07** (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html, JMP) 


Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. 

Of all the weapons of … the highest of all crimes. 




**Contention 3 is China**

**The plan allows for peaceful Chinese expansion, status quo guarantees conflict**
**Bandow, 09 –** Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug, 
“First Among Equals,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570, JMP) 

It’s the job of military … smoother will be the transition. 


**Withdrawal solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03 –** taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle, JMP) 

NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY The U.S. finds … it. We can help them do so. 


**Conflict with China will escalate to global nuclear war**
**Hunkovic, 09** – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict 
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf] 

A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study. 


**China’s growth is fueled by U.S. unnecessary presence in E. Asia and threatens miscalc**
**Defense.gov 8;** (A Report to Congress, Pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act); http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/China_Military_Report_08.pdf 

The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) … to hedging against the unknown. 



**U.S. ground withdrawal forces China to stop North Korean proliferation—this solves allied prolif**
**BANDOW 2010** (Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World and co-author of The Korean Conundrum: America's Troubled Relations with North and South Korea, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” Huffington Post, May 21, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html) Calum 

What value, then, is the … and economic tools on Pyongyang. 


**China’s rise is inevitable – the US response determines whether it will be a danger**
**Ikenberry, 08 –** professor of International Affairs at Princeton University (Jan/Feb 2008, John G., Vol. 87, Issue 1 Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West,” Proquest) 

As it faces an ascendant … system, the West will triumph. 


**Contention 4 is solvency**

**U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that does not rely on the U.S. – solves WMD terrorism, tame China, prevents Sino-Japan conflict, Japan imperialism, solve resource conflicts and stop major power domination**
**Francis, 06 –** former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586, JMP) 

At the conclusion of the … a strong, independent East Asian Union. 



**Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**Lee, 09**** – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” www.cfr.org, JMP) 

Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security … form of the U.S.-Korea alliance. 










=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]