=Aff Stuff= 

Dead Prez That’s War 20-52 (32 seconds) 
DEAD PREZ GOT TO THE CORE OF TOPIC EIGHT YEARS AGO WHEN THEY SPIT THOSE BARS IDENTIFYING THE INVISIBLE WARFARE GOING ON IN THE STREEETS OF OUR HOODS THAT PLAYS BLUEBPRINT TO THE LARGER STRUCTURE OF CIVIL SOCIETY. BUT THIS DISCUSSION IS NONETHELESS OBSCURED BY OUR PORNOGRAPHIC OBSESSION WITH THE SEXIER WARS HAPPENING INTERNATIONALLY LIKE IN AFGHANISTAN OR IRAQ. WITH A LENSE THAT FOCUSES OUR GAZE SOLELY ON THE SPECTACULAR NATURE OF SUCH ATROCITIES, IT IGNORES THE BANALITY OF POLICE BRUTALITY AND ITS FUNCTIONING AS THE LATTICE WORK OF WHITE CIVIL SOCIETY. THE TOPIC SERVES AS A RED HERRING CONSTRUCTING A COHERENCE TO OUR DEBATES OF WHETHER A TROOP/GLOBAL POLICING DRAW DOWN COULD CHANGE THE AMERICAN POLITY OUR ARTIFICIAL ETHICAL COHERENCE IS ONLY A PRODUCT OF BRACKETING OFF THE BLACK BODY WHICH MAKES IT POSSIBLE IN THE FIRST PLACE TO TRY AND JUSTIFY OR REDPUDIATE SUCH ACTIONS. THIS CONSTRUCTION OF KNOWLEDGE CONTINUES TO SERVE THE BLUE BEAST WITH THE IMPUNITY TO INFLICT GRATUITOUS VIOLENCE UPON THE BLACK SUBJECT 
**Martinot & Sexton 2003** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Steve & Jared, Steve is a lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs Jared is Associate Professor African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, Film & Media Studies School of Humanities at UC Irvine Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Comparative Ethnic Studies, “The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003 p.171-172] </span>
__They prowl, categorising and profiling, often turning those profiles into murderous violence without (serious) fear of being called to account, all the while claiming impunity.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">What jars the imagination is not the fact of impunity itself, but the realisation that they are simply people working a job, a job they secured by making an application at the personnel office. In events such as the shooting of Amadou Diallo, the true excessiveness is not in the massiveness of the shooting, but in the fact that these cops were there on the street looking for this event in the first place, as a matter of routine business. </span>__This spectacular evil is encased in a more inarticulable evil of banality, namely, that the state assigns certain individuals to__ (well-paying__) jobs as hunters of human beings, a furtive protocol__ for which this shooting is simply the effect. But they do more than prowl. They make problematic the whole notion of social responsibility such that __we no longer know if the police are responsible to the judiciary and local administration or if the city is actually responsible to them, duty bound by impunity itself. To the extent to which the police are a law unto themselves, the latter would have to be the case. This unaccountable vector of inverted social responsibility would resonate in the operating procedures in upper levels of civil administration as well. That is, civil governmental structures would act in accordance with the paradigm of policing— wanton violence legitimised by strict conformity to procedural regulations__. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">For instance, consider the recent case of a 12-year-old African-American boy sentenced to prison for life without parole for having killed a 6-year-old African-American girl while acting out the moves he had seen in professional wrestling matches on TV. In demanding this sentence, the prosecutor argued that the boy was a permanent menace to society and had killed the girl out of extreme malice and consciousness of what he was doing. A 12-year-old child, yet Lionel Tate was given life without parole. In the name of social sanctity, the judicial system successfully terrorised yet another human being, his friends, and relatives by carrying its proceduralism to the limit. The corporate media did the rest; several ‘commentators’ ridiculed Tate’s claim to have imitated wrestling moves, rewriting his statement as a disreputable excuse: ‘pro wrestling made me do it’ (San Francisco Chronicle, 25 March 2001). Thus, they transformed his naive awareness of bodies into intentional weaponry and cunning. One could surmise, with greater justification than surmising the malice of the child, that the prosecutor made a significant career step by getting this high-profile conviction. Beyond the promotion he would secure for a job well done, beyond the mechanical performance of official outrage and the cynicism exhibited in playing the role, what animus drove the prosecutor to demand such a sentence? In the face of the prosecution’s sanctimonious excess, those who bear witness to Tate’s suffering have only inarticulate outrage to offer as consolation__.__</span> __With recourse only to the usual rhetorical expletives about racism, the procedural ritualism of this white supremacist operation has confronted them with the absence of a real means of discerning the judiciary’s dissimulated machinations. The prosecutor was the banal functionary of a civil structure, a paradigmatic exercise of wanton violence that parades as moral rectitude but whose source is the paradigm of policing. All attempts to explain the malicious standard operating procedure of US white supremacy find themselves hamstrung by conceptual inadequacy; it remains describable, but not comprehensible.__ The story can be told, as the 41 bullets fired to slaughter Diallo can be counted, but the ethical meaning remains beyond the discursive resources of civil society, outside the framework for thinkable thought. It is, of course, possible to speak out against such white supremacist violence as immoral, as illegal, even unconstitutional. But the impossibility of thinking through to the ethical dimension has a hidden structural effect. __For those who are not racially profiled or tortured when arrested, who are not tried and sentenced with the presumption of guilt, who are not shot reaching for their identification, all of this is imminently ignorable. Between the inability to see and the refusal to acknowledge, a mode of social organisation is being cultivated for which the paradigm of policing is the cutting edge.__ We shall have to look beyond racialised police violence to see its logic.__The impunity of racist police violence is the first implication of its ignorability to white civil society. The ignorability of police impunity is what renders it inarticulable outside of that hegemonic formation. If ethics is possible for white civil society within its social discourses, it is rendered irrelevant to the systematic violence deployed against the outside precisely because it is ignorable.__ Indeed, that ignorability becomes the condition of possibility for the ethical coherence of the inside. The dichotomy between a white ethical dimension and its irrelevance to the violence of police profiling is the very structure of racialisation today. __It is a twin structure, a regime of violence that operates in two registers, terror and the seduction into the fraudulent ethics of social order; a double economy of terror, structured by a ritual of incessant performance.__ And into the gap between them, common sense, which cannot account for the double register or twin structure of this ritual, disappears into incomprehensibility. The language of common sense, through which we bespeak our social world in the most common way, leaves us speechless before the enormity of the usual, of the business of civil procedures.

<span style="color: black;">THE RESOLUTION GOT IT WRONG. WE COULD SIT HERE AND DEBATE ALL DAY ABOUT WHETHER IMPERIALISM IS REALLY BAD OR THAT WE NEED SOME MORE MILITARY PRESSENCE AFTER ALL IN THE TOPIC COUNTRIES. THE NEGATIVE ACTION OF THE RESOLUTION IS ALL BASED FUNDAMENTALLY BASED OFF OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGIBLE COHERENCE CONSTRUCTED FROM THE ABSOLUTE NON SOVEREINGTY OF THE BLACK BODY THROUGH A CONSTITUTIVE FUCNTION OF three levels, makes RACIAL PROFILING THE SIN QUA NON OF MODERN POLICING. IT DOESN’T COME OUT OF NOWHERE IT PROCEEDS THE PATRIOT ACT,THE WAR ON DRUGS AND EVEN NIXON’S RADICAL NATIONIZATION OF THE POLICE, EVEN BEFORE THE CREATION OF THE PRISON IT ALL STARTED WITH CHATTEL SLAVERY, GET IT RIGHT KIDZ. </span>
Sexton 2006 [Jared, Associate Professor of African American Studies and Associate Professor of Film and Media Studies and one third of The Trifecta of Tough, “Race, Nation, and Empire in a Blackened World,” //Radical History Review//<span style="font-style: normal;"> Issue 95]</span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__the U__</span>nited<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">S</span>__</span>tates<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, homegrown white supremacists, and the lion’s share of their more moderate neighbors, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__have <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">long considered black people to be weapons of mass destruction.</span>__</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> __Racial profiling__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the hallmark of Homeland Security’s dreadful encroachments, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__cut its__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fearsome </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__teeth__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> several years </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__prior to the passage of the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> USA </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__PATRIOT Act.__</span> __Prior__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as well, </span>__to the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American Civil Liberties Union’s (ACLU) “</span>__Driving while Black” campaign__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the late 1990s; </span>__prior <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to the</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launch of President Ronald Reagan’s infamous </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__war on drugs__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the early 1980s, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__and even to__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President Richard </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__Nixon’s__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> earlier </span>__consolidation <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">of the first truly nationwide police apparatus in the</span> late 19<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">60s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__the genealogy of this nefarious police__ __practice is properly charted__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> beyond the twentieth century, reaching back, with stunningly little modification, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__to the ethos of the colonial slave patrols__</span> __of the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__Given this__</span> __line of descent__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it is not unreasonable to say <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">that</span></span><span style="background-color: lime;"> __racial profiling is the sine qua non of modern policing__. </span></span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__In the consternated deliberations of national security__</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> official and unofficial, from the founding of the republic to the trumpeting of the new world order,</span> __the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">social control and crisis management of the black population has always figured centrally</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even or perhaps especially </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__when matters of emancipation or racial equality have by no means enjoyed the focus of debate__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Across the sweep of U.S. history,</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__policing the color line__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">has required no credible threat of invasion, no evidence of insurrectionary design, no proven stockpile of illicit chemical agents or radioactive material, no particular breach of domestic or international law, no sensational moral or ethical transgression (though all of these items, real or imagined, have factored in the relevant discourses, public and private). It</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__has only required the presence__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — within the polity, economy, culture, and society — </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__of a so-called problem people, dwelling as the absence of human presence__.</span> </span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can note further that</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__the institution of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">transatlantic racial slavery — </span>whose<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> political and economic relations constitute</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, present tense,</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__the social fabric of Western modernity__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in general, of the Americas in particular, and of the United States most acutely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">— </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__cannot be explained (away) by the__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">acquisition of fixed capital, the minimization of variable capital, or the maximization of profits, much less by the</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__dictates of gunboat diplomacy<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, the expansion of strategic overseas military installations, or the idiosyncrasies of the White House</span>__</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It may seem so at times, but only insofar as contemporary observers, or our historical counterparts, fundamentally misrecognize the nature of racial slavery: as a brutal regime of labor exploitation; as the atrocious adjunct to land conquest and the extermination, containment, and/or forced assimilation of indigenous peoples; or as an endeavor functional to, rather than in excess of and at times at odds with, the advent and maturation of Eurocentric capitalism. </span></span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, all of these procedures have been important to the history of racial slavery (and vice versa), but none is essential to its origins, its development and, above all, its pernicious afterlife.1 Rather<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span></span><span style="background-color: lime;"> __enslavement__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— the inaugural enterprise for the age of Europe, the precondition for the American century and its coveted sequel <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">— </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__is enabled by and dependent on__</span> __the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> most basic of operations:</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__symbolic and material immobilization, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the absolute divestment of sovereignty at the site of the black body:</span>__</span> __its freedom of movement, its conditions of labor, its physical and emotional sustenance, its social and sexual reproduction, its political and cultural representation. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Beyond its economic utility,</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">this rendering of the black as the object of dispossession par excellence</span> — object of accumulation, prototypical commodity, captive flesh — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">structures indelibly the</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">historical proliferation of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__modern conceptions of sovereignty that__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now dominate political and legal discourse globally and </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__provide the crucial frames of intelligibility foar both imperialism and anti-imperialism, empire and its discontents.__</span> __With blacks barred by definition from the very notion of the sovereign__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (whatever their nominal legal status, wherever their tentative place of residence), </span>__those not marked by the material and symbolic stigma of slavery have the exclusive and positive capacity to debate about sovereignty__: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to trivialize its importance and rationalize its violation or to struggle in its defense, to name and lament its loss, and wage war for its recovery. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-indent: 0.5in;">Blacks, then, suffer a peculiar relation to the U.S. empire in the historic instance: neither its subjects (certainly not its authors or beneficiaries) nor its objects (at least not in the most direct sense). This peculiarity was underscored dramatically during the notorious U.S. war in Southeast Asia (1965 – 75) wherein black soldiers, overwhelmingly conscripted, were not only disproportionately offered up as cannon fodder (after long being segregated and retained in noncombat functions, depicted as cowardly and inept, denied access to the social capital of military heroism, etc. — all components of the typical critique of the racism internal to the armed forces) but were also differentiated by the enemies of the U.S. military invasion and occupation. Racially targeted propaganda appealed to the cruel ironies of black military service (ironies already well known and articulated by mid-century) and offered ideological support to the struggle for freedom, justice, and equality that was, at the time, intensifying and mutating stateside as it raised the galvanizing cry of Black Power. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-indent: 0.5in;">More important, I think, were the notable combat tactics of Vietcong and North Vietnamese Army soldiers, which frequently targeted white soldiers for ambush and sniper attacks while leaving unharmed (if at all possible) contingents of black soldiers on hand, a veritable racial partition of attack. In this circumscribed domain, the campaign of Vietnamese guerrilla fighters sought to exploit — in parts strategically, in parts earnestly — the living legacy of antiblackness among U.S. fighting forces not only by suggesting a political affinity between blacks and Asians as victims of white supremacy (whether European colonialism or U.S. imperialism) but also by enacting a displacement of the racially distributed vulnerability to violence that otherwise slated blacks for gratuitous assault without recourse. Muhammad Ali’s famous 1966 statement, “I ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet-Cong. No Viet-Cong ever called me nigger,” takes on added weight in this light. Black troops, for their part, contributed actively to this antagonistic milieu with, among other things, hundreds of fraggings of white junior officers, the repeated refusal of high-risk assignments, and, on several occasions, open rebellion and riot against the system of overseas military policing and prisons in which they were, predictably, overrepresented as captives. </span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the contemporary theater of operations in occupied Iraq, this historical discrepancy — which has hardly been mitigated, even if it is newly mediated — promised to reassert itself briefly with the fragging incident involving U.S. Army Sergeant Asan Akbar, a native-born black.2 But the racial politics of U.S. militarism, so prominent at the height of black political movement and social upheaval in the 1960s and 1970s, have been consistently and unsurprisingly convoluted by the combined effects of corporate media machinations and the marked disarray of black politics domestically.3 The global antiwar movement, while eloquent on the menace of the former, has missed the latter point almost entirely.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__In its drive for__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> popular (if not </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__populist) appeal__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a drive fueled by the euphoria of mass demonstrations on the eve of the U.S. invasion,</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__political opposition to the war on terror across the global North has borrowed freely from the rhetorical repertoire of black freedom struggle in and beyond the U__</span>nited __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">S</span>__tates__, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">but it has displayed a striking disinterest in either the political energies or the lived experience of actually existing black communitie</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">s.</span>__</span>

<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Advocacy</span>__</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Second part** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: center;">**So turn on your radios. In the spirit of KRS-One, Jean Grae , NWA, Lauryn Hill, Ice-T, and Dead Prez, Damiyr and I advocate the use of hip hop as a strategy in debate to end the policing of black bodies. We have to abolish the cops right here in this community so that it may serve as a praxis and starting point for us to fight back against the pigs in our hoods and the world.** </span>
<span style="display: block; page-break-before: always; text-align: center;"><span class="Heading1Char"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Cambria;">__PART DEUX: INTERNATIONALLY KNOWN__ </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**White racialized identity is the condition of possibility for US interventionism. The cultural paranoia and consensus building based off of this paranoia of whiteness is what fuels our messianism in other countries.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**Martinot**</span> 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**03**</span> [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” //Social Justice// <span style="font-style: normal;">Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Beneath__ the historical conflation of __American nationalism__ and "white nationalism," of representative democracy and __"white democracy"__ that __inhabits the American identity, the need for a threat to instigate the renewal of a messianic project continually reoccurs to confirm its "white racialized identity."__ __This__ is the __"higher responsibility"__ to __which the mainstream American responds when called upon by government violence against others,__ and which would be abrogated by the absence of intervention. (This is not determined by the color of a person's skin; we are speaking of "white supremacy" as a social structure, a social ethos, to which one subscribes through one's subscription to the "white nation.") __The paranoia and self-valorizing violence through which that "higher responsibility" expresses itself structures the foundations upon which American identity rests__ (in its land emptying and labor-controlling endeavors). They constitute the structure of its interventionist ethic. __As different manifestations of the same cultural structure, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">white racialized identity and the ethic of governmental intervention are parallel. Each operates according to a prioritization of allegiance and consensus, a cultural paranoia that criminalizes others to construct a defensive solidarity, and a violence that relies on allegiance to self-referentially confirm the paranoia.</span>__ The three aspects of the attack sequence — identification of a criminal national leader, decriminalization of U.S. violence in dealing with that leader, and the self-consensualizing legitimacy of U.S. government strategies as forms of legality — reflect these dimensions. The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__underlying white racialized identity permits U.S. interventionism to proceed without ethical crisis. The interventionary ethos appears moral to white supremacy because it reproduces the structure that constitutes that white supremacy.__</span> __The assault on Afghanistan__ (retaliating for September 11 by destroying whole towns and killing thousands of civilians) __criminalized the Taliban, unleashed an unprogrammatic military campaign to drive it off the land, and used an arbitrary degree of violence against that land's people—all as a measure of U.S. messianic rectitude.__ Yugoslavia followed the same structure, with the demand for it to abandon its sovereignty, destruction of its terrain with bombs and ecological disaster (depleted uranium and demolished chemical plants), and the equation of Serbian existence with criminality. __The assault confirms a messianic purpose for the white American identity by signifying that the goal of the destruction was "humanitarian." And now, again, Iraq. If interventionism requires no political goal beyond rhetorical criminalization, then messianism (of "democracy") thrown against the sovereignty of that perceived "threat" is sufficient.__ Indeed, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__the paranoid inversion that sees__</span> __the other's <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">defense as aggression and its own interventionary aggression as defense makes a programmatic political purpose all but impossible.</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">25 __The ability to criminalize and manufacture international solidarity against the other achieves that goal and confirms that its paranoid perception was real. If U.S. interventionism repeatedly proves itself to be white supremacist, it is an exterminationist messianism.__</span> As Joy James (1996: 46) puts it, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__there is always a genocidal dimension to white supremacy, as well as a violently enforced allegiance to it.__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; padding: 0in 0in 4pt; text-align: center;"><span style="color: red;">Part III:</span> <span style="color: windowtext;">What Da</span> <span style="color: #00b050;">Deal Is</span></span>
**Debate has become an educational policing apparatus that reifies the maintenance of the purity of white civil society. Schooling much like debate represents a contaminant free zone where the black body is rendered absent in order to focus on the mind and contrived coherence. Framework is an attempt to make us have a head without a body- Educational spaces dominated by whiteness make the black body invisible but the black body exceeds attempts to make it absent. This stain in an academic space such as debate is seen as something that must be confined and intellectually imprisoned.** 
**THE DSRB** 20**08** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 15] 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Particularly, I am interested in <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">t__he__</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">speaking body of the other</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">,</span> that body __that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">pollutes, or darkens the purity of the holistic social body</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span> Post-structural education theorist John Warren describes __schooling in terms of maintenance of purity. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Schools represent</span> at their best, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a pollutant and contaminant free environment, as critical to the educational and social maturation of student minds.</span>__ Warren notes that __"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the body is perceptually rendered absent in an effort to center perceptual attention on the mind.</span>__" In other words, __in the school environment the presence of the body is a social pollutant of the educational space. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The body must be invisible in order to focus on the mind. The educational system attempts "to erase the impact of the body.</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">"</span> Warren suggests that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**__bodies of color__**</span>__,__ in particular, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**__exceed attempts to render them absent.__**</span> <span style="color: black;">For cultural theorists Homi Bhabha and Franz Fanon, the colored, or more specifically, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__the black body signifies a difference from white bodies that makes the colored body significantly more visible in majority white societies. **The black body represents dirt or a stain**__,</span> or to use symbolic anthropologist Mary Douglas' language, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**__a “pollutant,” on and in the social body, one that must be controlled and contained__**__.__</span> Color is written on the skin, encrusted on the “flesh” of the body at the “surface” level. The Deleuzian metaphor of a body without organs is particularly useful here. For it is the flesh that signifies, not the internal processes of the body. And, yet the flesh signifies on such internal processes of the biological body. __The colored body signifies a biological difference, an inherent difference, from non-colored or white bodies.__ In other words, __despite the fact that significant gains have been made in reducing the social belief in the biological difference between the races, American public and social discourse tends toward__ __that belief,__ while political correctness reduces the ways in which such beliefs can be expressed. </span>Such an ambivalent stance __results in the shading of the consistencies between all human bodies, resulting in a body without organs, where the surface level of the skin comes to (re)present biological difference.__</span>

**Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hip hop within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.**
THE DSRB 2008 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The process of __signifyin__’ engaged in by the Louisville debaters __is not simply designed to critique the use of traditional evidence; their goal is to “challenge the relationship between social power and knowledge.”__ In other words<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, __those with social power within the debate community are able to produce and determine “legitimate” knowledge. These legitimating practices__</span> usually <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__function to maintain the dominance of normative knowledge-making practices, while crowding out or directly excluding alternative knowledge-making practices.__</span> The Louisville “framework looks to the people who are oppressed by current constructions of power.” Jones and Green offer __an alternative framework for drawing claims__ in debate speeches, they refer to it as a three-tier process: __A way in which you can validate our claims, is through the three-tier process__. And __we talk about personal experience, organic intellectuals, and academic intellectuals__. Let me give you an analogy. If you place an elephant in the room and send in three blind folded people into the room, and each of them are touching a different part of the elephant. And they come back outside and you ask each different person they gone have a different idea about what they was talking about. But, if you let those people converse and bring those three different people together then __you can achieve a greater truth.”__ Jones argues that __without the three tier process <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**debate claims are based on singular perspectives** that **privilege** those with institutional and economic power.</span>__ The Louisville debaters **__do not reject__** __traditional evidence per se, instead__ they __seek to **augment or supplement**__ __what counts as evidence with other forms of knowledge produced outside of academia.__ As Green notes in the double-octo-finals at CEDA Nationals, “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**__Knowledge surrounds me in the streets__**__,__</span> __through my peers, through personal experiences, and everyday wars that I fight with my mind.__” The thee-tier process: personal experience, organic intellectuals, and traditional evidence, provides a method of argumentation that taps into diverse forms of knowledge-making practices. With the Louisville method, __personal experience and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">organic intellectuals are placed on par with traditional forms of evidence.</span>__ While the Louisville debaters see the benefit of academic research, they are also critically aware of the normative practices that exclude racial and ethnic minorities from policy-oriented discussions because of their lack of training and expertise. Such exclusions prevent radical solutions to racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia from being more permanently addressed. According to Green: bell hooks talks about how <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__when we rely solely on one perspective to make our claims, radical liberatory theory becomes rootless.__</span> That’s the reason why we use a three-tiered process. __That’s why <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">we use **alternative forms of discourse such as hip hop**.</span>__ That’s also how we use traditional evidence and our personal narratives so <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__y**ou don’t get just one perspective**__ __claiming to be the right way.__</span> __Because it becomes a more meaningful and educational view as far as how we achieve our education.__The use of __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">hip hop</span> and personal experience function <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">as a check against the **homogenizing** function of academic and expert discourse.</span>__ Note the reference to bell hooks, Green argues that without alternative perspectives, “radical libratory theory becomes rootless.” The term <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">**__rootless__**</span> seems to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__refer to a **lack of grounded-ness in the material circumstances**__ </span>__that academics or experts study.__ In other words, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__academics and experts by definition represent an intellectual population with a level of **objective distance**__</span> __from that which they study.__ For the Louisville debaters, __this distance is problematic as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">it prevents</span> the development of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a social politic that is rooted in the community of those most greatly affected by the status of oppression.</span>__ </span>
=<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> Neg Stuff</span>= 
Round 2 v. Marquette - 2 New Cards

**The exterminatory logic of military invasion is the end product of society built off slavery and genocide. The US continues to see the world through the eyes of a slave master, if that weren't the case the vast majority of white Americans wouldn't have opinions that were so disconnected from the rest of humanity.**

Black Commentator 2003 "Racism and War: Perfect Together, Number 33 March 13th

**Their arguments come from an inverted fantasyland of psychotic delusion and pathology that is at the heart of white epistemology, their "no link" arguments are just more symptoms of the mental illness that is white supremacy**

Black Commentator 2003 "Racism and War: Perfect Together, Number 33 March 13th

Racial profiling is the sine qua non of modern policing- policing is synonymous with policing blackness. Debate has become the deliberation room for national security where debaters ferociously argue about what is best for American primacy. What these debates do not come to grasp with is that America ought not to exist, before we can come to discuss anti imperialism or the problem with our military installations abroad we cannot expect to understand the short comings of America's policies unless we look at what constitutes it's modernity (political and economic relations). The social fabric of America, it's modernity and it's origin lay in slavery. We cannot talk about the discontents of sovereignty without talking about what that sovereignty constitutes, that sovereignty by definition excludes the black body. 

Sexton 2006 [Jared, Associate Professor of African American Studies and Associate Professor of Film and Media Studies and one third of The Trifecta of Tough, “Race, Nation, and Empire in a Blackened World,” //Radical History Review//<span style="font-style: normal;"> Issue 95]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In </span><span style="background-color: lime;">__the U__</span>nited<span style="background-color: yellow;"> __<span style="background-color: lime;">S</span>__</span>tates<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, homegrown...</span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">actually existing black communitie</span><span style="background-color: yellow;">s.</span>__



White supremacy is essential to the American social formation- White supremacy is a logic of social organization that produces genocidal and militarized conceptions of “human” difference that are enforced through the violent technologies of white supremacist regimes. It is the organizing logic to the extermination of difference and is a cultural structure that composes American globality(HEG) 

Rodriguez 2007 [Dylan Rodriguez, University of California, Riverside, “AMERICAN GLOBALITY AND THE U. S. PRISON REGIME: STATE VIOLENCE AND WHITE SUPREMACY FROM ABU GHRAIB TO STOCKTON TO BAGONG DIWA” Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007] 





Variable, overlapping, and mutually constituting...common sense that is organic to its ordering. 



This white ethic of nationalism that influences the policing and prison apparatuses on the home front lead to the intervention mentality that the resolution talks about. The two are not incommensurable, but rather share a symbiotic relationship. 

Martinot 2003 [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” Social Justice Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]

Beneath the historical conflation... violently enforced allegiance to it.




The affirmative displaces war as something that happens in other geographies while obscuring and ignoring the war that ordinary people are victims of on a daily basis- a domestic war that has everything to do with the white supremacists policing apparatuses who are the so called arbiters of “peace” that keep “peace” by imprisoning every minority with a dime bag, every loiterer, or tranquilizing every riot. The affirmative keeps a cloak on the domestic war which is germane to the epistemology of whiteness because they have the ability to simply ignore the invisible war that takes place everyday in the ghetto which necessarily allows for the violence to extend to other localities around the world. As criminalized intellects we need to refocus our limited political attentions to the war the materializes itself in our everyday realities. 

Rodriguez 2009 [Dylan Rodriguez, University of California, Riverside, “The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition” Critical Sociology, Volume 36, Issue 1, 2009]

This common sense obscures... its participants, enablers, victims, and strategists.



The ignorability of this violence is the condition of possibility for the war at the home front. It is precisely the ability to ignore the policing of blackness that allows for ethical coherence of policing to exist. The white ethical dimension of ignorability produce a fraudulent ethic that produces a social order of terrorizing difference. 

Martinot & Sexton 2003 [Steve & Jared, Steve is a lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs Jared is Associate Professor African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, Film & Media Studies School of Humanities at UC Irvine Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Comparative Ethnic Studies, “The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003 p.171-172]

They prowl, categorising and profiling, often... usual, of the business of civil procedures.

Furthermore, their maintenance of distance produces a political subject that is a voyeur to oppression that comes to mentally masturbate to large death counts and nuclear war rather than actually address the war that takes place on the streets. 

El Kilombo Intergalactico 2007 [Collective in Durham NC that interviewed Subcomandante Insurgente Marcos, Beyond Resistance: Everything p. 1-2]

In our efforts to forge a new path, we found that... action that eventually must be written by us all.

Debate exports the racism of the federal government by remaining silent and not acknowledging or addressing how the community reifys structures of imprisonment. Instead of talking about the real domestic war debate encourages us to replicate the problems of the federal government by playing in a fantasy world that we have no control over.

THE DSRB 2008 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"]

Racism is one of the leading exports... debate bodies marked by difference.

Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hip hop within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse. 

THE DSRB 2008 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]

The process of signifyin’ engaged in by... greatly affected by the status of oppression.

===Perm stuff for Carrolton=== 

<span style="color: black;">The perm is nothing more than white supremacist multiculturalism. It is an attempt to take the alien body/presence and integrate it into the localities of whiteness- this inclusion of the “other” is simply another way in which white hegemony makes minorities take on the white identity even if it is the so called enemy population- this multiculturalist white supremacy is crucial to the project of white supremacist globality. </span>

<span style="color: black;">**Rodriguez 2009** [Dylan Rodriguez, University of California, Riverside, “The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition” //Critical Sociology//, Volume 36, Issue 1, 2009]</span>

<span style="color: black;">It thus is within the confines of Homeland Security as...historical project of white supremacist globality.</span>


The permutation fails because it includes the destructive policing of blackness as an afterthought or part of an exasperated laundry list catalog of equivalents. This fails to center anti-black, white supremacist policing as the constitutive condition of the entire structural network of violent domination and thereby misunderstands the truth of the social order. This failure of centering sutures the affirmative politics to the anti-blackness of white civil society, leading to the inevitable amplification of state power and white supremacist violence.

Sexton 2010 [Jared, Associate Professor of African American Studies and Associate Professor of Film and Media Studies and one third of The Trifecta of Tough, “People-of-Color-Blindness: Notes on the Afterlife of Slavery,” Social Text, Vol. 28, No. 2]



The upshot of this predicament...less momentous than yet another revolution.