<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>

<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Surveillance Aff 1AC]]Surveillance Aff 1AC**</span>


__**Observation 1 is Surveillance:**__
**American Military Strategy, Throughout Afghanistan Iraq and Elsewhere is Emphasizing the Function of Electronic and Technological Surveillance—Achieving Information Dominance is a Primary Objective of Extending American Militarist Hegemony**
ADMIRAL GARY ROUGHEAD, CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS (CNO), AT THE NAVY LEAGUE OF DENVER, Defense Department Briefing, Federal News Service, August 24th, 2010 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www6.lexisnexis.com/publisher/EndUser?Action=UserDisplayFullDocument&orgId=574&topicId=25098&docId=l:1256043356&start=22]]</span>)
And when you think about all those things going on <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">there is no question that our Sailors today are very busy. They're busy in Iraq and Afghanistan</span></span>, where we have more sailors on the ground - 14,500 Sailors serving on the ground in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Djibouti - than we have serving at sea. We have another 10,000 Sailors who are on our ships off shore and at sea we serve in a more traditional role projecting power from our aircraft carriers which continue to provide over 30% of fixed wing flying in support of U.S. and coalition troops on the ground, in Afghanistan. In July alone, that aircraft carrier that's on station in the North Arabian Sea and the strike group provided almost 1,700 sorties in one month and almost 700 hours of combat operations in support of those troops on the ground.
But our nation's interests extend far beyond Iraq and Afghanistan. Today, almost 40,000 Sailors are deployed and about 39% of our ships and submarines are on deployment. That is an extraordinarily high percentage. And we're delivering on our maritime strategy around the globe. Just this past month, in the vicinity of Hawaii, 14 nations, 32 ships, 5 submarines and more than 170 aircraft took part in the Rim of the Pacific exercise. And in the Mediterranean, our 6th Fleet commander on board USS Mount Whitney participated in exercises alongside the naval forces of France, Russia, and Great Britain.
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The USS George Washington, a carrier airwing, six destroyers, a fast attack submarine and maritime patrol aircraft conducted Exercise Invincible Spirit wit<span style="border: medium none initial;">h the Republic of Korea navy. That exercise was an important one that showed our solidarity with the Republic of Korea</span></span></span>after they had one of their ships unexpectedly torpedoed by North Korea. And in maritime security, we conducted maritime civil affairs & security training in six countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America. And in humanitarian assistance and disaster response, the USS Iwo Jima supplemented by naval mobile construction forces concluded our humanitarian assistance mission in Haiti, while at the same time, USS Peleliu Amphibious Ready Group and the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit are bringing flood relief to the people of Pakistan from the sea.
And I mentioned the power projection and forward presence being provided by the Harry S. Truman tonight, as we sit here having dinner together.
We continue to prove ourselves to be an adaptable, flexible, and fast responders, and <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">globally we're seeing the demand for our forces continue to rise and be in greater demand than ever before</span></span>. In watching developments, I remain convinced of our maritime strategy's continued relevance, and I am re-committed to the imperatives of that strategy: to prevent or to win in conflict, with the resources that it requires. Successive budgets from the fiscal year 2010 through the Navy's program submission that we've just concluded for 2012 have been consistent with that commitment to the Maritime Strategy. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">As was the Department of Defense's Quadrennial Defense Review or 'QDR', as was the recent Quadrennial Defense Review Indep<span style="border: medium none initial;">endent Panel report that was commissioned by Congress and released late last month.</span></span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> That report reaffirmed the conclusions</span></span> that we reached in our Maritime Strategy in 2007, expressing concern over a developing mismatch between force structure and our valid operational requirements. As you might be aware, that report that was just issued calls for a bigger fleet, and the floor of 313 ships that I've articulated since becoming the CNO has been encompassed in the number in that report.
And <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">we're also balancing<span style="border: medium none initial;"> our investments in ships and aircraft with systems to defeat the most challenging threats that we will face. We're building information dominance, we're building increased capacity in electronic warfare and ballistic missile defense, and intelligence, sur<span style="border: medium none initial;">veillance reconnaissance</span></span></span></span>.

**This is Embodied in the Combat Zones that See Project, Which Attempts to Fully Comprehend and Monitor the Urban Spaces Identified as Crucial to the Future of the War on Terror—Rendering the Terrorist and Insurgent as Visible Even Within the Complicated and Diffuse Space of the City**
Mike Crang and Stephen Graham, Reader in geography at Durham University and Professor of Human Geography at Durham University, “SENTIENT CITIES:Ambient intelligence and the politics of urban space,” Information, Communication and Society, December 2007 (Ebscohost)
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">A particularly interesting project embracing the ideas of the DSB report is the tellingly titled </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Combat Zones That See</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> (CTS) project set up by the US Defense Advanced Res<span style="border: medium none initial;">earch Projects Agency</span></span></span> (DARPA). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Launched at the start of the Iraq insurgency in 2003, CTS </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">explores concepts, develops algorithms, and delivers systems for utilising large numbers</span></span> (1000s) <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">of algorithmic video cameras to provide the close-in sensing demanded<span style="border: medium none initial;"> for military operations in urban terrain</span></span></span><span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (DARPA 2003, p. 4). Through installing computerized CCTV across whole occupied cities, the project organisers envisage that, when deployed, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">CTS will sustain </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">motion-pattern analysis across whole city scales</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span>, linked to the tracking of massive populations of individualized cars and people through intelligent computer algorithms linked to the recognition of number plates and scanned in human facial photos to provide <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>close-in, continuous, alwayson support for military operations in urban terrain<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (DARPA 2003, p. 6). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The work of the DSB is just one example of a vast complex of research and development driven by the apparent inability of Western militaries and police security agencies to actually identify, track and loc<span style="border: medium none initial;">ate their </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> within a globalizing and urbanizing</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">battlespace</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> where any simple separation of the home city from the hostile one breaks down. Crucial to these emerging surveillance systems is a radically new politics of anticipatory seeing</span></span>. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">For the <span style="border: medium none initial;">overarching feature of the new, militarized, surveillance push, whether its </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> are located in Manhattan and Baghdad, London and Fallujah, is an attempt to build systems of technological vision in which computer code itself is, along with databases o<span style="border: medium none initial;">f real or imaged </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">, delegated with the agency of tracking and identifying </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">abnormal</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’ ‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> from the background </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">normality</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> of a homeland or war-zone city</span></span>. Crucial here is the adaptation of the commercial practices of <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>data mining<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> or<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>predictive analytics<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> where algorithms are developed to look for patterns in the swathes of captured data, identify or profile behaviours or characteristics deemed to be <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>unusual<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> or <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>abnormal<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, and search for <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>target<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> people, transactions or flows deemed to have such characteristics (see McCue 2005; Pruett 2005). Jordan Crandall suggests that <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">tracking is integral</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> to emerging modes of governance and military power based on </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">anticipatory seeing</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> (1999). The key question now, he suggests, is </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">how targets are identi<span style="border: medium none initial;">fied and distinguished from non-targets</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> within </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">decision making and killing</span></span><span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (1999). Identifying such targets becomes the role of statistical algorithms which sift the mass and flux of registered and sensed data searching for (what Mark Seltzer has termed) <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>statistical persons<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>. Most important here is <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">that all potential </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> must be incorporated into databases in the first place. Indeed, the existence of a signature in a database increasingly defines citizenship in this new age: </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">frequently . . . ther<span style="border: medium none initial;">e is no person who exists outside of the database</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> (Crandall 1999). To Crandall, this widespread integration of computerized tracking with databases of </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> represents little but </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">a gradual colonization of the now, a now always slightly ahead of itsel<span style="border: medium none initial;">f</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span> (Crandall 1999). This shift represents a process of profound militarization because the social identification of people within civilian law enforcement is complemented or even replaced by the <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>machinic<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> seeing of <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>targets<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>. <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>While civilian images are embedded in processes of identification based on reflection<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, writes Crandall, <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>militarised perspectives collapse identification processes into<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">“</span>Id-ing<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">” –</span> one-way channel of identification in which a conduit, a database, and a body are aligned and calibrated<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (Crandall 1999). Again, this is central to the relationship between the application of identical surveillance systems in both homeland and war zone securitization. Crandall suggest <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">that the new capacity of anticipatory seeing involves a kind of </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">armed vi<span style="border: medium none initial;">sion</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> where the capabilities of vision are </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">upgraded and made safe against an unprocessed exteriority, a dangerous and unreliable outside</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span> (Crandall 1999).

**T<span style="font-size: 9pt;">he Already Widespread Deployment of These Systems Enables Hegemonic Violence to Be Unleashed in Even the Most Opaque of Arenas and Make the Terrorist a Destroyable Object </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Mike Crang and Stephen Graham, Reader in geography at Durham University and Professor of Human Geography at Durham University, “SENTIENT CITIES:Ambient intelligence and the politics of urban space,” Information, Communication and Society, December 2007 (Ebscohost)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 12.6pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2">A second key theme in discussions about the reconfiguration of urban spaces through ubiquitous computing centres on imperatives of securitization. In particular</span>, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the imagination, development and deployment of myriads of new sensing and surveillance systems in city spaces are at the heart of efforts within the so-called </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">war on terror</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> to both securitize Western or </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">homeland</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> cities and to counter insurgenc<span style="border: medium none initial;">ies within war-zone cities in the colonized frontiers of the global South. In both domains, the key dynamic centres on attempts at rendering complex urban flows and structures permanently transparent to tracking and surveillance systems. In military jargon<span style="border: medium none initial;">, cities and the complex infrastructure grids within and between them are now deemed to be the central </span></span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">battlespaces</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> in which terrorists and insurgents are largely indistinguishable from the wider urban background and thus cannot be easily identified, tra<span style="border: medium none initial;">cked, or targeted.</span></span></span> ‘Identity dominance’ in ‘asymmetric warfare’ <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The key to this new type of conflict, which profoundly embeds the new </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">battlespaces</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> in urban civilian life, is to mobilize ambient intelligence. Embedded in cities and urban infrastructures, <span style="border: medium none initial;">to provide the </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">battlespace awareness</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> necessary to identify, track and target lurking insurgents, terrorists and other </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">, and so provide Western forces with what John Woodward, of RAND</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">s Intelligence Policy Centre, calls </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Identity dominance</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span> (McCue 2005). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Thus, military, defence and surveillance industries are offering ambient technologies</span></span>such as RFID tags, algorithmic video cameras, data mining and biometrics <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">as means to unveil the logistical, transactional and geographical movements of the human<span style="border: medium none initial;"> and non-human </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> of the war on terror.</span></span> <span class="reduce2">Prototype pervasive processors called <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>Smart dust<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> were released in 2001, they were powered by solar energy and able to communicate about the environment they found themselves in, from San Francisco to Berkeley even if, at 7 mm in length, they were not (yet) wind blown as intended (McCullough 2004, p. 73). </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">This is being done in a context where the complexity, density, dynamism and scale of urban centres are widely deemed by US defence analysts to undermine the <span style="border: medium none initial;">high-technology advantages of Western state militaries. The new military focus is on informal, non-state terrorists and insurgents who blend into the background of the cities</span></span></span>, <span class="reduce2">city networks, and urban infrastructure systems they both choose as the bases for their actions, and exploit in their targeting operations. An excellent example of the ways in which ambient intelligence technologies are being portrayed as central mechanisms through which to wage the <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>war on terror<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> comes from a major report published by the Pentagon<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>s Defense Science Board (DSB) in December 2004. One of many attempting to draw early military lessons from the urban insurgency in Iraq</span>, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">this report was startling for one reason. It deliberately called for what it termed a </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">New Manhattan Pr<span style="border: medium none initial;">oject</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">, invoking the code-name famously used in the 1940s to describe the massive programme which developed the first atom bombs used to devastate Hiroshima and Nagasak</span></span>i in May 1945 <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">It urged a similar concentration of military resources on what the Board <span style="border: medium none initial;">saw as the key strategic priority for the twenty-first century: the technological unveiling of cities and urban life</span></span></span>. Specifically, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">it saw possibilities to exploit ubiquitous computing technologies in developing a massive, integrated system of surveillance<span style="border: medium none initial;">, spanning the world, and tailored specifically to penetrating the increasing complexity of urban life. Such a system, it argued, would once again render the US military</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">s targets trackable, locatable </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> and destroyable</span></span>. <span class="reduce2">The purpose of the New <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>Manhattan project<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, then, was seen to be to <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>locate, identify, and track, people, things and activities <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span> in an environment of one in a million <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span> to give the United States the same advantages in asymmetric warfare [as] it has today in conventional warfare<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (DSB 2004, p. 163). Strategically, the ideas of the report have been cemented as one of eight principle development areas into the New Pentagon strategy for a <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>Long War issued in 2005<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span>.<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The United States</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> hegemonic capabilities for surveillance over the earth from th<span style="border: medium none initial;">e distant, vertical domains of air and space were deemed by the DSB to have </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">poor capability for finding, identifying and tracking</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> what it calls </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">unconventional war targets</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span> <span class="reduce2">(DSB 2004, p. 153) such as<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>individuals and insurgent or terrorists groups that operate by blending in with the larger </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Crucially, intimate and persistent military surveillance systems were needed which penetrated the details of everyday urban life. As the report put it, little less than a comprehensive rescaling of military imaginatio<span style="border: medium none initial;">ns of surveillance was needed and </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">more intimate, terrestrial, 21st century ISR</span></span> [Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance] <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">were required</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span> (DSB 2004, p. 2). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The gaze of hegemonic military power, the report argued, thus needed to colonize not just the p<span style="border: medium none initial;">lanetary scales of surveillance; it also needed to penetrate the fine-grained and local geographies of urban and infrastructural</span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">battlespaces</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span></span>. <span class="reduce2">Such a transformation was imagined to be profoundly temporal as well as geographical. <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>The surveillance of people, things and activities required to populate the databases needed for identification, location and tracking<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, the authors write, <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>will require a persistence beyond that typical of many of today<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>s<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> military and security surveillance systems.</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">These new sur<span style="border: medium none initial;">veillance systems, profoundly local and global at the same time, will, in other words, need to be </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">always on</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">. This will allow them, through </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">evidence-correlating and backtracking algorithms</span></span><span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (DSB 2004, p. 159<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">) to call upon memories, via databases recordin<span style="border: medium none initial;">g the history of movements and associations of things, activities and people, and anticipate</span></span></span>, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">so that threatening and </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">abnormal</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> behaviours and emergences can be detected and dealt with before the point of terrorist or insurgent attack.</span></span> <span class="reduce2">The new <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>Close-in, terrestrial means<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> of surveillance, intelligence and targeting centre on the <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>data mining<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> and tracking techniques familiar from the commercial aspirations. To achieve this, biometric sensors will need to verify and code people<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>s identities, as they flow through national or other borders, through finger/palm prints; iris scans; DNA; face recognition; voice recognition; even odour and gait recognition (Figure 3). (The DSB report favours combinations of iris and fingerprint scans, combined with face recognition, as<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>offering a reasonably effective compromise among speed, accuracy, ease of implementation and cost<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (DSB 2004, p. 159</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">)). A wide range of technologies deploying algorithmic calculation, tracking and data mining are being deployed to reconfigure passp<span style="border: medium none initial;">ort systems, borders, even public transport transactions, based on the biometric tracking of identities. All of these centre on combinations of data mining, riskprofiling, attempts at pre-empting risk, and identifying purported </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">targets through what Louis<span style="border: medium none initial;">e Amoore has called </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">war-like architectures of self/</span></span><span class="reduce2">other<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>(Amoore 2007, p. 1). They will also connect objects and itineraries into blogjects, storing data on who comes into contact with what and when. On the ground</span>, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">biometric means of bordering, populatio<span style="border: medium none initial;">n control and incarceration have been widely employed in Iraq, notably in the city of Fallujah (where all remaining residents have been given ID cards embedding both fingerprints and retina scans which must be used to pass through fences and checkpoints en<span style="border: medium none initial;">circling the town). Meanwhile, new projects titled </span></span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Transparent Urban Structures</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> and the</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Visibuilding</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> programme have been funded which seek to build sensors that automatically penetrate the built fabric of cities. </span></span></span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Strategy of Ensuring Visibility is in Itself the Primary form of Control and Submission to Disciplinary Power—By Forcing the Subject into the Visible Everyone is Made Accountable and Ultimately Imprisoned Within Themselves—This Visibility is the Basis of All Manifestations of Power and the Implementation of Violence</span>**
Neve Gordon, Department of Politics and Government, Ben-Gurion University, “On Visibility and Power: An Arendtian Corrective of Foucault,” Human Studies, Spring 2002 (Jstor)
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 12.6pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Foucault's emphasis on surveillanc<span style="border: medium none initial;">e as one of the most efficacious controlling techniques within disciplinary society has highlighted the central role of visibility in</span></span></span> his understanding of <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">power and control.</span></span> <span class="reduce2">We read that due "to the techniques of surveillance, the 'physics' of power, the hold over the body, operate according to the laws of optics and mechanics, according to a whole play of spaces, lines, screens, beams, degrees, and without recourse, in principle, at least, to excess, force or violence. It is a power that seems all the less 'corporeal' in that it is subtly 'physical'" (Foucault 1979, p. 177). Elsewhere he states,</span> "<span class="reduce2">There is no need for arms, physical violence, material constraints. Just a gaze. An inspecting gaze</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">, a gaze which each individual under its weight will end by inte<span style="border: medium none initial;">riorising to the point that he is his own overseer, each individual thus exercising this surveillance over, and against himself</span></span></span> (1980, p. 155). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">It is as if the "gaze" penetrates the individual, helping to shape the "soul" so that it conform to the existing<span style="border: medium none initial;"> rules, codes, and mores. The soul, </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Foucault concludes</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">, becomes the prison of the body</span></span>. <span class="reduce2">The importance of visibility is frequently mentioned vis-a-vis Foucault's discussion of Jeremy Bentham's Panopticon. The invariable visibility of the</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 12.6pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"> prisoner enforces isolation, which is, according to the prison authorities, a boon. From the point of view of the guard, the inmate population is "replaced by a multiplicity that can be numbered and supervised; from the point of view of the inmates, by a sequestered and observed solitude" (1979, p. 201). One notices that</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Foucault draws a line between visibility and isolation, arguing that above all other techniques, the isolation created by permanent visibility enables the exercise of a maximum intensity of power</span></span> over prisoners. Indeed, "<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">solitude is the primary condition of total submission</span></span>. . ." (1979, p. 237).7 <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">No other influence can overthrow this power because no viable alternative can be organized in isolation, and when no alternative can be organized then submission bec<span style="border: medium none initial;">omes the only tenable course of action</span></span></span>.<span class="reduce2">8 The flaw of the panoptic model, as C. Colwell points out, is that the gaze is centralized, while power, according to Foucault, is not located in one identifiable site (Colwell, 1994). I would argue that the cubicle, a more recent disciplinary artifact, might serve as a more "exact" model of Foucauldian power. "Budgetary constraints" have led corporations to shunt employees, who previously worked in individual offices, into a central space divided by cubicles.9 The cheaper materials from which the cubicle is made and the diminished space it occupies are not the only reasons cubicles have become permanent fixtures in the corporate landscape. In many respects, the latent power of the their ingenious design is a perfect example of a structure created to ensure invariable control over its occupier - the white-collar corporate worker. Cubicles have no doors, and the desk is often situated across from the opening so that the worker's back is facing the public maze. The thin "walls" never reach the ceiling, even though they are at times too high for someone to look over. The worker is never sure who might pass by the open entrance or whether someone is listening-in on a phone conversation. Similar to the panopticon, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the perpetu<span style="border: medium none initial;">al visibility of the employee is sufficient to render most workers docile</span></span></span>. <span class="reduce2">With cubicles, there is no identifiable site of control: no boss stands at the door to secure compliance; no executive continually inspects one's work. No monitor is needed. The mere possibility that a person from a higher echelon or even a co-worker will overhear a discussion or notice an employee resting is sufficient to ensure that the corporation's standards, customs, restrictions, and prohibitions are observed. This novel arrangement of the workplace is designed to guarantee the compliant diligence of employees. Furthermore, there is often no common space in which a group of workers can meet spontaneously or private space where co-workers can have confidential discussions. The cubicle phenomenon signifies that the white collar worker too has been colonized by Taylorism, confirming Foucault's claim that a "cleverly" designed edifice has the capacity to increase the productivity of a worker in terms of economic utility, while diminishing the political astuteness and individuality of that worker (Foucault, 1979, p. 138).10</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 12.6pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"> In Discipline and Punish, Foucault stresses that visibility is not only attained through architectural devices. He also mentions the process of examination, another form of control that has proliferated in the past century. The use of examination is pervasive, and one encounters it in a variety of forms throughout life.11 Its capacity to facilitate social control is twofold, in both cases, though,</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> it makes the subjec<span style="border: medium none initial;">t visible in order to control him or her. On the one hand, it constantly sifts the members of society through a strainer, making them visible in order to evaluate and categorize them according to established criteria. Those who deviate can be sent to priso<span style="border: medium none initial;">ns or psychiatric institutions, while the rest are further categorized and compartmentalized according to their particular "abilities." In this way, the examination distinguishes, divides, and ultimately isolates the different members of society</span></span></span></span>. <span class="reduce2">On the other hand, in order to succeed in passing the examination, individuals are required to appropriate an already determined field of knowledge and behavior. If one wishes, for example, to be a teller in a bank, there are a whole range of conditions one needs to satisfy. One has to demonstrate-that is, make visible-one's ability to calculate and be mindful of money; one has to show that one can comply with a dress code, adopt certain mannerisms, and appropriate the accepted business proprieties. Foucault mentions the use of exams in educational institutions. Students are constantly requested to take tests or hand in papers, which the teacher uses in order to evaluate their progress and accomplishments. The examination, Foucault explains, enables the teacher to establish a "visibility through which one differentiates [the students] and judges them" ( 1979, p. 184); each individual "receives as his status his own individuality," thus marking the pupil as a case (1979, p. 192). Insofar as the examination is a reflection of the student, the student is also conceived of as an object. While the examination, like other forms of surveillance, is a mechanism that differentiates and insulates, it also homogenizes since it allows the teacher to transmit specific information and "to transform his pupils into a whole field of knowledge" (1979, p. 186). Foucault argues that the employment of visibility has changed over time. Indeed</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">, the individuation and isolation of the subject occurred only with the introduction of disciplinary<span style="border: medium none initial;"> techniques, because these techniques reversed the visibility </span>of power. Traditionally, power which was embodied in the sovereign-was visible whereas the subject remained hidden.</span></span> <span class="reduce2">It was only the occasional reflection of sovereign power on the subject?e.g., when a subject was accused of some kind of offence and tortured in the town square that positioned the individual under the limelight.</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Disciplinary power inverted this strategy. As opposed to sovereign power and judiciary power, which operate by virtue of <span style="border: medium none initial;">their visibility, disciplinary power is exercised through its invisibility. The disciplinary techniques impose "on those whom it subjects a principle of compulsory visibility"</span></span></span> (Foucault, 1979, p. 187). Thus, in contrast to sovereign power, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the introduction<span style="border: medium none initial;"> of discipline forced the subjects to come</span> into view, since their visibility assures the hold of the power exercised over them. More generally, Foucault shows how the mode of visibility changes over time according to the operation of power</span></span>. <span class="reduce2">As stressed through the examples of the panoptic tower and the cubicle</span>, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">it is the potential of being constantly seen that "maintains the disciplined individual in his subjection</span></span>" (<span class="reduce2">Foucault, 1979, p. 187). While visibility has usually been discussed in relation to surveillance and, more broadly, disciplinary techniques, it is important to point out that</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">visibility in the sense of being seen and heardis also a crucial component of all other forms of power discussed by Foucault. Visibility is essential to power not only beca<span style="border: medium none initial;">use it is put to use by power in order to control people, but perhaps more importantly because it is power's condition of possibility. Discursive practices, for instance, are meaningless and powerless if they are not visible</span></span></span><span class="reduce2">. Judith Butler makes this point clear in her discussion of gender performativity. She shows how the process of signification occurs through the constant performative reiteration of norms, and this reiteration actually materializes a set of effects on the matter of bodies (Butler, 1990, 1993).</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Visibility, accordingly, precedes the process of internalization. Put differently, discursive practices are actually created, reproduced, and upheld throu<span style="border: medium none initial;">gh vis<span style="border: medium none initial;">ible citation and repetition of their normative fiats.</span></span></span></span> <span class="reduce2">Conversely, if a discursive practice ceases to be articulated by constant repetition, it loses its power and may eventually disappear. Thus, the practice maintains its power only insofar as it is visible</span>. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">One notices that visibility functions as a form of control in two distinct ways. On t<span style="border: medium none initial;">he one hand, the actual visibility of normative fiats is necessary for them to maintain their power over the subject. While on the other hand, the invariable potential visibility of the subject is sufficient to render him/her docile.</span></span></span> <span class="reduce2">These modes of visibility are only methodologically distinct, since the subject's potential visibility is intricately tied to the actual visibility of normative fiats. In other words, the subject's potential visibility facilitates control only because</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">a set of normative fiats i<span style="border: medium none initial;">s already visibly circulating in society and the subject must, in some way, relate to these fiats. Along the same lines, the visibility of normative fiats necessarily<span style="border: medium none initial;"> affects the subject only because she/he is always potentially visible.</span></span></span></span></span>

**The Military Attempt to Render Occupied Areas Visible is a Racist and Orientalist Attempt to Construct the City Space Within Traditional Western Coordinates**
Stephen Graham, Professor of Geography at Durham University, "Interrupting the Algorithmic Gaze?
Urban Warfare and US Military Technology," a Chapter for MacDonald, F. at al (Ed.) Geopolitics
and Visual Culture: Representation, Performance, Observant Practice, 2007 (Publication Forthcoming, Available at :<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.124.2684]]</span>)
A universal feature of both <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">urban RMA discourses</span></span>, and popular cultural renditions of Arab cities in video games and the like, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">is the reduction of global<span style="border: medium none initial;"> south cities to physical, </span>uninhabited spaces whose very geographies are essentialised as a geopolitical risk to the verticalised power of the US military</span></span>. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Such discourses directly lead to the dehumanisation of the citizens of these cities within the hyper<span style="border: medium none initial;">-militarised rhetoric which </span>dominates the US military, a process which, in turn, renders their lives, deaths, and citizenship of no account. For, in trying to render Orientalised cityscapes transparent to the both algorithmic gaze of Western military techn<span style="border: medium none initial;">oscience,</span></span></span> and the immersed, voyeuristic gaze of the video game player, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the inhabitants and social worlds of Arab and global south cities simultaneously become invisible. ‘Cities’ are reduced to pure ‘battlespace’. Urban inhabitants become ‘targets’ to be t<span style="border: medium none initial;">racked, surveilled and, if </span>necessary, targeted with weapons. And notions of the civilian are increasingly rendered meaningless within wider discussions about how 'assymetric’, ‘network-centric’ or ‘unrestricted’ warfare means that all bodies, everywhere, m<span style="border: medium none initial;">ust be treated, a priori, as </span>adversaries</span></span> (Gregory, 2006).
Second, I would argue that <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the ‘urban’ turn in the RMA involves an important rescaling process in the geographical and geopolitical imaginaries of Western military and visual culture. Instead of ren<span style="border: medium none initial;">dering the globe as a single, integrated ‘battlespace’</span></span></span> to be controlled through the real-time systems of ‘network centric’ warfare -- as was typical in the first generation of RMA discussions -- <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">military planners address instead the microgeographical lands<span style="border: medium none initial;">capes of streets, buildings, tunnels, and cities. The world of the </span>city once again becomes a dominant site within Western geopolitical and military imaginaries. Heralding the possibility of a new relationship between warfare, technoscience and the organisa<span style="border: medium none initial;">tion of space, these encounters bring with them a highly </span>charged politics of seeing – a geopolitics of exposure and (in)visibility. But such a politics moves far beyond traditional questions of the human gaze and the representation and imagination of geogr<span style="border: medium none initial;">aphies within various media that have long dominated </span>Orientalist constructions of Arab cities within Western colonial history</span></span>. As well as these, it forces the consideration of what Jordan Crandall (2005, 5) calls the “tracking-gaze” and how <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the social matr<span style="border: medium none initial;">ix of anticipatory seeing, with computer algorithms as key agents, </span>brings with it a new geopolitics of visuality. To Crandall, this complex of militaristic tracking technologies “moves away from a focus on perspective and position to one of movement-flow</span></span>”(2005, 5). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">It “is a convenience- and security-driven network ontology</span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> that requires its own threatening other</span></span>” (2005, 5). And it <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">brings with it a post-optical politics of (attempted) control and subordination which is now being closely inscribed into both t<span style="border: medium none initial;">he imaginary and real geographies of Western military incursions in the rapidly </span>urbanising global south.</span></span>
==== ==== 

**The Creation and Sustenance of American Hegemony Based on These Orientlalist Perceptions Ensures Exclusion, Genocide and Annihilation**
Pinar Batur, Professor of Scociology at Vassar, The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, eds. Vera and Feagin 2007 [“, p. 446-7]
<span class="reduce2">At the turn of the 20th century, the “Terrible Turk” was the image that summarized the enemy of Europe and the antagonism toward the hegemony of the Ottoman Empire, stretching from Europe to the Middle East, and across North Africa. Perpetuation of this imagery in American foreign policy exhibited how capitalism met with orientalist constructs in the white racial frame of the western mind (VanderLippe 1999). Orientalism is based on</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the conceptualization of the “Oriental” other—Eastern, Islamic societies as static, irrational, savage, fanatical, an<span style="border: medium none initial;">d inferior to the peaceful, rational, scientific “Occidental” Europe and the West</span></span></span> (Said 1978). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">This is as an elastic construct, proving useful to describe whatever is considered as the latest threat to Western</span></span> economic expansion, political and cultural <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">heg<span style="border: medium none initial;">emony, and global domination for exploitation </span></span></span>and absorption.
Post-Enlightenment Europe and later <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">America used this iconography to define basic racist assumptions regarding their uncontestable right to impose political and economic dominance globally</span></span>. <span class="reduce2">When the Soviet Union existed as an opposing power, the orientalist vision of the 20th century shifted from the image of the “Terrible Turk” to that of the “Barbaric Russian Bear.” In this context, orientalist thought then, as now, set the terms of exclusion. It</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">racialized exclusion to define the terms of racial privilege and superiority. By focusing on ideology, orientalism recreated the superior race</span></span>, even though there was no “race.” <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">It equated the hegemony of Western civilization with the “right ideological <span style="border: medium none initial;">and cultural framework.” It segued into war and annihilation and genocide and continued to foster and aid the recreation of racial hatred of others with the collapse of the Soviet “othe</span></span></span>r.”<span class="reduce2"> Orientalism’s global racist ideology reformed in the 1990s with Muslims and Islamic culture as to the “inferior other.” Seeing Muslims as opponents of Christian civilization is not new, going back to the Crusades, but the elasticity and reframing of this exclusion is evident in recent debates regarding Islam in the West, one raised by the Pope and the other by the President of the United States.</span>
<span class="reduce2"> Against the background of the latest Iraq war, attacks in the name of Islam, racist attacks on Muslims in Europe and in the United States, and detention of Muslims without trial in secret prisons, Pope Benedict XVI gave a speech in September 2006 at Regensburg University in Germany. He quoted a 14th-century Byzantine emperor who said, “show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached.” In addition, the Pope discussed the concept of Jihad, which he defined as Islamic “holy war,” and said, “violence in the name of religion was contrary to God’s nature and to reason.” He also called for dialogue between cultures and religions (Fisher 2006b). While some Muslims found the Pope’s speech “regrettable,” it also caused a spark of angry protests against the Pope’s “ill informed and bigoted” comments, and voices raised to demand an apology (Fisher 2006a). Some argue that the Pope was ordering a new crusade, for Christian civilization to conquer terrible and savage Islam. When Benedict apologized, organizations and parliaments demanded a retraction and apology from the Pope and the Vatican (Lee 2006). Yet, when the Pope apologized, it came as a second insult, because in his apology he said, “I’m deeply sorry for the reaction in some countries to a few passages of my address at the University of Regensburg, which were considered offensive to the sensibilities of Muslims” (Reuters 2006). In other words, he is sorry that Muslims are intolerant to the point of fanaticism. In the racialized world, the Pope’s apology came as an effort to show justification for his speech—he was not apologizing for being insulting, but rather saying that he was sorry that “Muslim” violence had proved his point.</span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Through orientalist and the white racial frame, those who are subject to racial hatred and exclusion themselves become agents of racist legitimizati<span style="border: medium none initial;">on</span></span></span>. <span class="reduce2">Like Huntington, Bernard Lewis was looking for Armageddon in his Wall Street Journal article warning that August 22, 2006, was the 27th day of the month of Rajab in the Islamic calendar and is considered a holy day, when Muhammad was taken to heaven and returned. For Muslims this day is a day of rejoicing and celebration. But for Lewis, Professor Emeritus at Princeton, “this might well be deemed an appropriate date for the apocalyptic ending of Israel and, if necessary, of the world” (Lewis 2006). He cautions that “it is far from certain that [the President of Iran] Mr. Ahmadinejad plans any such cataclysmic events for August 22, but it would be wise to bear the possibility in mind.” Lewis argues that Muslims, unlike others, seek self-destruction in order to reach heaven faster. For Lewis, Muslims in this mindset don’t see the idea of Mutually Assured Destruction as a constraint but rather as “an inducement” (Lewis 2006). In 1993, Huntington pleaded that “in a world of different civilizations, each . . .will have to learn to coexist with the others” (Huntington 1993:49). Lewis, like Pope Benedict, views Islam as the apocalyptic destroyer of civilization and claims that reactions against orientalist, racist visions such as his actually prove the validity of his position.</span>
<span class="reduce2"> Lewis’s assertions run parallel with George Bush’s claims. In response to the alleged plot to blow up British airliners, Bush claimed, “This nation is at war with Islamic fascists who will use any means to destroy those of us who love freedom, to hurt our nation” (TurkishPress.com. 2006; Beck 2006). Bush argued that “the fight against terrorism is the ideological struggle of the 21st century” and he compared it to the 20th century’s fight against fascism, Nazism, and communism. Even though “Islamo-fascist” has for some time been a buzzword for Bill O’Reilly, Rush Limbaugh, and Sean Hannity on the talk-show circuit, for the president of the United States it drew reactions worldwide. Muslim Americans found this phrase “contributing to the rising level of hostility to Islam and the American Muslim community” (Raum 2006</span>).<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Considering that since 2001, Bush has had a tendency to equate “war on terrorism” with “crusade,” this new rhetoric equates ideology with religion and reinforces the worldview of <span style="border: medium none initial;">a war of civilizations. As Bush said, “ . .</span></span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> .we still aren’t completely safe, because there are people that still plot and people who want to harm us for what we believe in” (</span></span>CNN 2006).
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Exclusion in physical space is only matched by exclusion in the imagin<span style="border: medium none initial;">ation, and racialized exclusion has an internal logic leading to the annihilation of the excluded. Annihilation, in this sense, is not only designed to maintain the terms of racial inequality, both ideologically and physically, but is institutionalized wit<span style="border: medium none initial;">h the vocabulary of self-protection. Even though the terms of exclusion are never complete, genocide is the definitive point in the exclusionary racial ideology, and such is the logic of the outcome of the exclusionary process, that it can conclude only in<span style="border: medium none initial;"> ultimate domination. War and genocide take place with compliant efficiency to serve the global racist ideology with dizzying frequency</span></span></span></span></span>. The 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur.
**Thus the Plan:**
**The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Reduce its Military Presence By Withdrawing all Technology and Forces for Military Surveillance in South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq and Turkey.**

**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanMS; font-size: 13pt;">Observation 2 is Biopolitics:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanMS; font-size: 13pt;">The Drive to Unite Technology in an Overwhelming Sweep of Information is the Ultimate Strategy of the Permanent State of Exception, the Creation of a Biopolitical Regime of Safety and Security</span>**
Jeremy Packer, Associate Professor in the Department of Communication and the Director of the Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media PhD Program, “BECOMING BOMBS: MOBILIZING MOBILITY IN THE WAR OF TERROR,” July, 2006 (Ebscohost)
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">These new formulations draw from those derived of previous problematizations of mobility. The technologies <span style="border: medium none initial;">of governance present in the not so </span>distant past have surely been ramped up, but they are not wholly new.</span></span> As the head of Technology and Public Policy Program for the Center for Strategic and International Studies states (Lewis cited in Shachtman 2003) <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">in r<span style="border: medium none initial;">eference to the </span>most far-reaching of these new technologies, Combat Zones that See (CTS), ‘it’s just connecting things that already exist’. In fact, the very technologies used under the guidance of what I call the automobility safety regime</span></span> (Packer 2003); <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">have been applied extensively in this new security regime. Yet, it is</span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> partially the availability of such technologies that makes for their easy application.</span></span> David Lyon (2003) makes evident that such new applications have been widespread in the U.S’.s war on terror. Homeland Security in this regard is a new use of old tools; a governmental and corporate game of shifting resources and expenditures from one profitable arena to an even more profitable one. But, it is also much more than that. The logic of automotive safety has worked part and parcel with a biopolitical formation of disciplinarity and control<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">. Safety as a set of practices and a legitimizing discourse has been both a goal of biopolitics and a means for ensuring discipline and implementing a contro<span style="border: medium none initial;">l society. More specifically it is one means for ‘governing at a </span>distance’; that is, organizing, regulating, and making productive the mobility of individuals and the population alike without direct governmental control.3 In other words, the goals of ensur<span style="border: medium none initial;">ing the safety of an auto-mobile population </span>and the efficiency of the automobile system demands that driving subjects become highly normalized and self-disciplined.</span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> The goals of national security are now imagined as depending upon the same disciplinary and<span style="border: medium none initial;"> control technologies</span></span></span> that have proven effective in both increasing automotive safety and in legitimating and extending the very possibilities for a control society. To make clear, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Homeland Security is not simply a means for creating the conditions for the<span style="border: medium none initial;"> safe existence of citizens or for guaranteeing the security of the nation. It is also a means for further </span>implementing </span></span>what Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri (2001, p. 38) have termed Empire which is ‘based on <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">a state of permanent exception and police actio<span style="border: medium none initial;">n’. Such a state of exception turns all terrain, including the Homeland, </span>into a battlefield and all traversing it become actionable forces for police/military use or intervention</span></span>. Previously the logic of safety was used as the moral cause by which the activation of a control society had come about in the realm of personalized transport. And under such conditions the stated role of
the police was to help save lives by enforcing rules of vehicular conduct. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Under current conditions attempts for achieving the <span style="border: medium none initial;">control society</span></span></span> _ as described by Gilles Deleuze (1995) and later articulated as the primary mechanism of power for Empire (Hardt and Negri 2001) _ <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">are animated in regards to mobility via security concerns. </span></span>What follows is (1) an examination of how the logics of safety and security differ, specifically as they relate to mobility and (2) an investigation of how these logics are activated through a particular mode of mobility, the automobile. This essay then examines these fundamental changes through a historical and theoretical analysis of how the control society has been operating in relation to automobility; changes that it is argued are experiments ultimately for controlling all forms of human mobility.


**The Biopolitics of Exception and Visibility Makes Violence Inevitable—The Rise of the Camp is Intimately Connected With the Attempt to Render Populations Expendable and Disposable**
Henry Giroux, Prof at McMaster, “Reading Hurricane Katrina:Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability,” College Literature, 2006
<span class="reduce2">In the current historical moment, as Catherine Mills points out, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">"all subjects are at least potentially if not actually abandoned by the law and exposed to violence as a constitutive condition of political existence" (2004, 47<span style="border: medium none initial;">). </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">Nicholas Mirzoeff has observed that</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> all over the world there is a growing resentment of immigrants and refugees, </span></span><span class="reduce2">matched by the emergence of detain-and-deport strategies and </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">coupled with the rise of the camp as the key institution and social model of th<span style="border: medium none initial;">e new millennium. </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">The "empire of camps," according to Mirzoeff, has become the "exemplary institution of a system of global capitalism that supports the West in its high consumption, low-price consumer lifestyle" (2005, 145). Zygmunt Bauman calls such camps "garrisons of extraterritoriality" and argues that they have become "the dumping grounds for the indisposed of and as yet unrecycled waste of the global frontier-land" (2003, 109).</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> The regime of the camp has increasingly become a key index of modernity a<span style="border: medium none initial;">nd the new world order. </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">The connections among disposability, violence, and death have become common under modernity in those countries where the order of power has become necropolitical. For example, Rosa Linda Fregoso analyzes feminicide as a local expression of global violence against women in the region of the U.S./Mexico border where over one thousand women have been either murdered or disappeared, constituting what amounts to a "politics of gender extermination" (2006, 109).</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> The politics of disposabili<span style="border: medium none initial;">ty and necropolitics not only generate widespread violence </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">and ever expanding "garrisons of extraterritoriality"</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> but also have taken on a powerful new significance as a foundation for political sovereignty. </span></span><span class="reduce2">Biopolitical commitments to "let die" by abandoning citizens appear increasingly credible in light of the growing authoritarianism in the United States under the Bush administration (Giroux 2005). [End Page 180]</span>
<span class="reduce2"> Given the Bush administration's use of illegal wiretaps, the holding of "detainees" illegally and indefinitely in prisons such as Guantanamo, the disappearance, kidnapping, and torture of alleged terrorists, and the ongoing suspension of civil liberties in the United States, Agamben's theory of</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> biopolitics rightly alerts us to the dangers of a gov<span style="border: medium none initial;">ernment in which the state of emergency becomes the fundamental structure of control over populations. </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">While Agamben's claim that the concentration camp (as opposed to Foucault's panopticon) is now the model for constitutional states captures the contrariness of biopolitical commitments that have less to do with preserving life than with reproducing violence and death, its totalitarian logic is too narrow and fails in the end to recognize that</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> the threat of violence, bare life, and death is not the only for<span style="border: medium none initial;">m of biopower in contemporary life. The dialectics of life and death, visibility and invisibility, and privilege and lack in social existence that now constitute the biopolitics of modernity have to be understood in terms of their complexities, specificiti<span style="border: medium none initial;">es, and diverse social formations. </span></span></span></span><span class="reduce2">For instance, the diverse ways in which the current articulation of biopower in the United States</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> works to render some groups disposable and to privilege others within a permanent state of emergency </span></span><span class="reduce2">need to be specified. Indeed, any viable rendering of contemporary biopolitics must address more specifically how biopower attempts not just to produce and control life in general, as Hardt and Negri insist, or to reduce all inhabitants of the increasing militarized state to the dystopian space of the "death camp," as Agamben argues, but also to privilege some lives over others. The ongoing tragedy of pain and suffering wrought by the Bush administration's response to Hurricane Katrina reveals a biopolitical agenda in which </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">the <span style="border: medium none initial;">logic of disposability and the politics of death are inscribed differently in the order of contemporary power</span></span></span><span class="reduce2">—structured largely around wretched and broad-based racial and class inequalities.</span>
<span class="reduce2"> I want to further this position by arguing that </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">neoliberalism, p<span style="border: medium none initial;">rivatization, and militarism have become the dominant biopolitics of the mid-twentieth-century </span></span></span><span class="reduce2">social state and that the coupling of a market fundamentalism and contemporary forms of subjugation of life to the power of capital accumulation, violence, and disposability, especially under the Bush administration, has produced a new and dangerous version of biopolitics.[[#REF4]]<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: black; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.macalester.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html#FOOT4|4]]</span> While the murder of Emmett Till suggests that a biopolitics structured around the intersection of race and class inequalities, on the one hand, and state violence, on the other, has long existed, the new version of biopolitics adds a distinctively different and more dangerous register. The new biopolitics not only includes state-sanctioned violence but also relegates entire populations to spaces of invisibility and disposability. As William DiFazio points out, "the state has been so weakened over decades of privatization that it . . . increasingly [End Page 181] fails to provide health care, housing, retirement benefits and education to a massive percentage of its population" (2006, 87). While the social contract has been suspended in varying degrees since the 1970s, under the Bush Administration it has been virtually abandoned. Under such circumstances, the state no longer feels obligated to take measures that prevent hardship, suffering, and death. The state no longer protects its own disadvantaged citizens—they are already seen as dead within a transnational economic and political framework. Specific populations now occupy a globalized space of ruthless politics in which the categories of "citizen" and "democratic representation," once integral to national politics, are no longer recognized. In the past, people who were marginalized by class and race could at least expect a modicum of support from the government, either because of the persistence of a drastically reduced social contract or because they still had some value as part of a reserve army of unemployed labour. That is no longer true. This new form of biopolitics is conditioned by a permanent state of class and racial exception in which "vast populations are subject to conditions of life conferring upon them the status of living dead" (Mbembe 2003, 40), largely invisible in the global media, or, when disruptively present, defined as redundant, pathological, and dangerous. Within this wasteland of death and disposability, whole populations are relegated to what Zygmunt Bauman calls "social homelessness" (2004, 13). While the rich and middle classes in the United States maintain lifestyles produced through vast inequalities of symbolic and material capital, the "free market" provides neither social protection and security nor hope to those who are poor, sick, elderly, and marginalized by race and class. Given the increasing perilous state of the those who are poor and dispossessed in America, it is crucial to reexamine how biopower functions within global neoliberalism and the simultaneous rise of security states organized around cultural (and racial) homogeneity. This task is made all the more urgent by the destruction, politics, and death that followed Hurricane Katrina.</span>

**These Status Quo Fantasies of Perfect Omniscience are Impossible—Our Intelligence Inevitably Fails and Can Only Produce Failure—We Must Use This Failure as an Opportunity to Investigate Our Desire For Biopolitical Visibility**
Mike Crang and Stephen Graham, Reader in geography at Durham University and Professor of Human Geography at Durham University, “SENTIENT CITIES:Ambient intelligence and the politics of urban space,” Information, Communication and Society, December 2007 (Ebscohost)
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The second axis across the examples is the structur<span style="border: medium none initial;">ing of time into spaces through technologies of anticipation and memory. Military technologies, we have suggested, invest in a form of anticipatory seeing, being concerned with what people might do in the future based on profiles of past behaviour. The sam<span style="border: medium none initial;">e is in many senses true of consumer technologies whose aim to offer a customized landscape depends upon anticipating people</span></span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">s desires based on surveillance of previous consumption habits</span></span>. Both military and commercial systems use the tracking of visible actions to try and peer inside people<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>s psyches. They both work by using the capacity for logging actions and connecting memories and stories of people so as to predict future behaviour. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">But these logs are but the bare bones of lives </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> the full gamut of the <span style="border: medium none initial;">social world rendered as mere transaction and movement. Other emerging ubicomp technologies, however, are being established to try and to re-enchant human links to place by recording and sustaining the personal and transient meanings of places.</span></span></span> These artistic practices suggest that the effect of memory is not the creation of perfectly known environments. Rather, it involves a destabilization of spaces, a haunting of place with absent others. The double, indeed triple and quadruple, coding of spaces and people through narratives and information carried in digital networks may thus actually serve to disperse our notion of both person and place. This, then, points to our third recurrent theme. In a sense, following de Certeau, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">it is clear that the urban ubicomp<span style="border: medium none initial;"> experiments reviewed here very often involve an erotics of knowledge and a fantasy of perfect vision. We need to recall that these dreams of perfect spatial and urban transparency and omniscience are longstanding. Such dreams always remain unrealized, how<span style="border: medium none initial;">ever, as the contradictions of urban technosocial change always render them rather na</span></span>ıve</span></span>. As McCullough suggests, experience should tell us <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">that omniscience is elusive</span></span>. As anyone who has ever tried to resolve a simple billing dispute will know, even the telephone company lacks enough internal coordination to make sense of its data to you. And <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">anyone who has ever dealt with a state-level bureaucracy knows, the odds of omnicompetence remain low. Generally, as information becomes more and more abundant, clear <span style="border: medium none initial;">views through it become less and less possible</span></span></span>. (McCullough 2004, p. 15) We want to suggest<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> this is not just a technical issue that will be overcome through further technological refinemen</span></span>t. What is notable is that, for capital and the military, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">ubicomp is<span style="border: medium none initial;"> being invoked as a technical fix or </span></span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">silver bullet</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> to somehow magically address complex and deep-seated social and political issues</span></span>. Urban ubicomp clearly has a fetishistic power in appearing to finally offer solutions by rendering place and space utterly transparent in some simple, deterministic way. Indeed, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">we would argue that there is a danger that locative media are equally seen as a technical fix for oppositional voices and alternative histories in art projects. In this sense the myths matter and hav<span style="border: medium none initial;">e effects. But they are only mythologies of a perfect, uniform informational landscape. In reality, the seamless and ubiquitous process of pure urban transparency that many accounts suggest will always be little but a fantasy</span></span></span>. In practice, the linking of many layers of computerized technology is generally a <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>kludge<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, as software designers call it. That is, a bricolage of component middleware, none of which is really designed for the task to which it is put, nor perfectly configured to work with the other middleware or devices it encounters. Computerized systems thus run <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>sub-optimally<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> but normally function adequately nonetheless (Mackenzie 2005). Indeed, Matt Locke eloquently describes the complex granularity of this new digital terrain: Mobile networks have to negotiate the architecture of spaces that they attempt to inhabit. Although the interfaces have removed themselves from physical architectures, the radio waves that connect cell spaces are refracted and reflected by the same obstacles, creating not a seamless network but a series of ebbs and flows. The supposedly flat space of the network is in fact not flat, pulled into troughs and peaks by the gravity of architecture and the users themselves. (Manovich 2006, pp. 228<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span>229) Quite the opposite of perfect transparency, a <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>global brain<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span>, or total vision, then! In practice, we may find that temporary and <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>good-enough<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> approaches to urban ubicomp may lead to <span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span>local aggregations of self-connecting systems [that] can become islands of coherence in the chaos raised by pervasive computing<span style="font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span> (McCullough 2004, p. 71). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Far from the pure vision of what de Certeau calls the </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">concept city</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">, we may find the production of myriads of little stories </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">–</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> a messy infinity of </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Little Brothers</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> rather than one omniscient </span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">‘</span><span style="border: medium none initial;">Big</span><span style="border: medium none initial; font-family: AdvM2391;">’</span><span style="border: medium none initial;"> Br<span style="border: medium none initial;">other. Some of these may be commercial, some personal, maybe some militarized. There is a real issue about proliferating knowledges circulating routinely and more or less autonomously of people. But it would seem to us that the political options are not th<span style="border: medium none initial;">ose of rejection or romanticizing notions of disconnection. Rather, it is to work through the inevitable granularity and gaps within these systems, to find the new shadows and opacities that they produce. </span></span></span></span>

**The Label of Terrorist is a Strategy to Demonize and Render Opposition Not Credible—Anything We Cannot Understand Must Support Terror to Justify its Exclusion, Monitoring and Ultimate Destruction**
Stephen Graham, Professor of Geography at Durham University, “Cities and the ‘War on Terror,” International Journal of Urban and Regional Research,Spring 2006 (Wiley Interscience)
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Discourses of ‘terrorism’ are crucially important in sustaining such differential values and binaried notions of human worth</span></span> (Collins and Glover, 2002). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Central he<span style="border: medium none initial;">re is the.</span>principle of the absolute externality of the ‘terrorist’ — the inviolable inhumanity and.shadowy, monster-like status of those deemed to be actual or dormant ‘terrorists’ or,those sympathetic to them</span></span> (Puar and Rai, 2002). <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">The unbound diffusion of<span style="border: medium none initial;"> terrorist</span></span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;"> labelling within the rhetoric of the ‘war on terror’, moreover, works to allow virtually any political opposition to the sovereign power of the US and its allies to be condemned as ‘terrorist’. ‘Without defined shape, or determinate roots’, Dere<span style="border: medium none initial;">k Gregory writes, the </span>mantle of ‘terrorism’ can now be ‘be cast over any form of resistance to sovereign power’</span></span> (2003: 219, original emphasis). Those experiencing frequent ‘terrorist’ labelling by national governments or sympathetic media since 9/11 include anti-war dissenters, critical researchers, anti-globalization protestors, anti-arms-trade campaigners, ecological and freedom of speech lobbyists, and pro-independence campaigners within nations like Indonesia allied to the US. <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Protagonists of such a wid<span style="border: medium none initial;">e spectrum of </span>opposition to transnational US dominance are thus all too easily dehumanized or demonized. Above all, they become radically delegitimized . Who, after all, will speak out in favour of ‘terrorists’ and their sympathizers? </span></span>Once achieved<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">, this l<span style="border: medium none initial;">oose proliferation of ‘terrorist’ labelling works to legitimize </span>ever-widening emergency and ‘anti-terrorist’ legislation. It sustains increasingly militarized civil and law and order policing. And it supports the construction of complex legal and geographi<span style="border: medium none initial;">cal archipelagos operating through networked connections across </span>many geographical scales. Within these, legal ‘states of exception’ are invoked to suspend ‘normal’ legal proceedings, but these themselves increasingly sediment out to become normalized and a<span style="border: medium none initial;">pparently obdurate</span></span></span> (Agamben, 2005).

**Security Politics are Self-Referential Nihilism—The Negative’s Attempt to Force the Political Into the Context of Geopolitical Calculation is the Prerequisite for Any Risk of Extinction**
Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster, Politics of security: towards a political philosophy of continental thought 1996 (p. 15)
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">What truths</span></span> about the human condition, he therefore prompted me to ask, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">are thought to be secreted in security</span></span>? What work does securing security do for and upon us? What power-effects issue out of the regimes of truth of security? <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">If the truth of security compels us to secure security, why, how and where is that grounding compulsion grounded? How was it that seekin<span style="border: medium none initial;">g security became such an insistent</span> and relentless (inter)national preoccupation for humankind</span></span>? What sort of project is the pursuit of security, and how does it relate to other modern human concerns and enterprises, such as seeking freedom and knowledge through representative-calculative thought, technology and subjectification? <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">Above all, how are we to account</span></span>—amongst all the manifest contradictions of our current (inter)national systems of security: which incarcerate rather than liberate; radically endanger rather than make safe; and engender fear rather than create assurance—<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">for that terminal paradox of our modern (inter)national politics of security which Foucault captured so well</span></span> in the quotation that heads this chapter. <span class="MsoHyperlink">5 </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial;">A terminal paradox which not only subverts its own predicate of security, most spectacularly by rendering the future of terrestrial existence conditional on the strategies and calculations of its hybrid regime of sovereign<span style="border: medium none initial;">ty and governmentality, but which also seems to furnish a new predicate of global life</span>, a new experience in the context of which the political has to be recovered and to which it must then address itself: the globalisation of politics of security in the gl<span style="border: medium none initial;">obal extension of nihilism and technology, </span>and the advent of the real prospect of human species extinction.</span></span>