==[[toc]]== 
=Cites= 
For aff cites, email [[mailto:nassimfedel@gmail.com|nassimfedel@gmail.com]]
For neg cites, email [[mailto:founkii@gmail.com|chloeechen@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==﻿Bronx 1AC== 
Same plan text as Wake

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Advantage 1 is Hegemony</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Obama announced a July withdrawal date, but it is based on the conditional success of the counterinsurgency mission. This deadline is perceived as unconditional withdrawal and has created global confusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Rogin, 10 - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights]]) When General David Petraeus testifies … exactly what they've been doing." The war is unwinnable – ANA weakness, corruption, and Pakistan double game. The Marja operation failed and nothing will change in the future. NYTimes, 8/12/10 (NYTimes, 8/12/10, “The State of the War in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/13/opinion/13fri1.html?ref=Afghanistan]]) We believe that the United … fight — on the right side.</span>**






**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hegemony is sustainable – declinists mistake trends for outcomes and only look at one measure of power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Brooks and Wohlforth 9 (Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Only a few years ago … is true of most terrorists.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Sustainability is only a question of restraint**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **Walt ’10 (Stephen M., Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government , "Five big questions," Foreign Policy,** [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/12/five_big_questions|**http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/12/five_big_questions**]]**, 7/12/10)** **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">will remain</span> … open to being pleasantly surprised.**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Over-commitment in Afghanistan devastates our ability to accomplish important foreign policy goals—kills public support for engagement</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Fernholz, 10 – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Obama's final decision in December … any of his other initiatives.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> COIN shreds our foreign policy priorities—includes resources for diplomacy </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Cohen 9 - Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, 11/30/09, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ",** [[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html|**http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html**]] **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sending</span> from 30,000 to 40,000 … policy agenda - and his presidency.** **And, current policy leads to isolationist backslide – the U.S. will abandon foreign policy leadership because of overextension** **Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog),** [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html|**http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html**]]**)** </span>




**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> … a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">rising power</span> (China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span> [[#_Toc273799797]] <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">US foreign policy leadership and power projection are key to the transition to multilateralism—solves global problems </span></span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Brooks and Wohlforth 9 (Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> How Washington Should Reform International … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">does not invest in them.</span> The plan regains domestic support for a lighter, more permanent commitment to Afghanistan—prevents hasty withdrawal and solves US regional influence Simon and Stevenson, 9 * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409) An effort on that scale … it has, in fact, become. Obama will seek to export the current Afghan COIN model to future conflicts—overstretches the military and collapses hegemony Klare, 10 - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010) Now we have President Obama … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">increased anti-Americanism and violence</span>. Current policy kills readiness and exposes us as a paper tiger—leads to great power wars, counterbalancing, and heg collapse Pyne, 9 - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]) Since we invaded Iraq six … US-ally Georgia this past year. Withdrawal replenishes our strategic reserve Friedman, 10 - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29, [[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]]) There is an anomaly in this … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and re-establish its ground reserves</span>. The plan’s strategic drawdown to 40,000 troops is best for maintaining hegemony: solves public support, resource overstretch, and incentivizes regional cooperation Blackwill, 10 –International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, senior fellow at the RAND Corporation, and US Ambassador to India (Robert, "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan", Politico, 7/7, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html]]) What then? If the COIN … and the future of Iraq.</span>**
























**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">US leadership prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – collapse causes transition wars and hotspot escalation—we’ll be drawn back in</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Robert Kagan (Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund) 2007 “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> The jostling for status … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">United States back in again.</span> The plan stimulates a doctrinal shift in American grand strategy towards a policy of selective engagement and specific responses to problems, rather than responding blindly with COIN Moselle, 10 (Tyler, 3/19/10, Financial Times (London), “Tackling Insurgents is Not Enough for America”, Lexis) </span>**



**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">American counterinsurgency theory </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">has become … national security and foreign policy. Advantage 2 is the Insurgency Current policy drives insurgents into Pakistan and causes Pakistan collapse Akhtar, 10- professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1]]) If it is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a war against … moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span> The flood has pushed Pakistan’s institutions to the breaking point – collapse is uniquely likely now. Landler, 8/18/10 – Diplomatic correspondent of the New York Times (Mark, 8/18/10, NYTimes, “US Strategy in Pakistan is Upended by Floods”, [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/l/mark_landler/index.html?inline=nyt-per]]) WASHINGTON — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The floods in Pakistan</span> … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the only source of authority.</span> Pakistani collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia Pitt, 9- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” [[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) But a suicide bomber in Pakistan … situation. So should we all. The plan solves insurgency violence in Pakistan – it focuses COIN in the strategic zones of the country, stopping insurgents from hiding in Pakistan and providing an incentive for those who have fled to return to Afghanistan. Kupchan & Simon, 9 – Prof International Affairs @ Georgetown and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Charles & Steven, 11/4/9, Financial Times (London), “Pull the Plug on the Afghan Surge”, Lexis) This revamped strategy would also … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to bring peace to Afghanistan</span>. The plan focuses COIN in strategic zones and continues counterterrorism in other parts of the country to prevent Taliban takeover—prevents Taliban takeover Kupchan & Simon, ‘9 – Prof International Affairs @ Georgetown and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Charles & Steven, 11/4/9, Financial Times (London), “Pull the Plug on the Afghan Surge”, Lexis) Although the aborted electoral run-… to the US invasion in 2001.</span></span>**























==Wake Forest 1AC== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Obama announced a July withdrawal date, but it is based on the conditional success of the counterinsurgency mission. This deadline is __perceived__ as unconditional withdrawal and has created global confusion</span>**Rogin, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">When General David Petraeus testifies </span>… <span class="Underline">__exactly what they've been doing__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span> Petraeus is committed to COIN throughout the entire country of Afghanistan – he’s requesting 2,000 more troops**





Thomet, 9/7**/10 (Laurent, “NATO eyes 2,000 extra troops for Afghanistan: official,” AFP)**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US General David </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Petraeus</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the </span>…<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> take full responsibility," Rasmussen said.</span>**



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should limit United States coalition operations in Afghanistan to consolidating control and development in strategically stable areas of Afghanistan and carrying out counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan where coalition forces would not regularly be deployed.</span>

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Contention 2 is Hegemony</span></span></span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;"> Two internal links – first, public support</span></span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Over-commitment in Afghanistan devastates our ability to accomplish important foreign policy goals</span>**
Fernholz, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) </span>**Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Obama's final decision in December </span>… <span class="Underline">__any of his other initiatives__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">The plan solves – disowning countrywide COIN regains domestic support for a lighter, more permanent commitment to Afghanistan</span></span></span>

Simon and Stevenson, 9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">* adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND </span>**Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">__An effort on that scale__ </span></span>… __<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">it has, in fact, become. </span></span>__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A lighter commitment to Afghanistan with the withdrawal deadline recast still wins the war and salvages public support</span>**
**Stewart, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - <span style="color: black;">Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span>[[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">__But this moderate tone gains__ </span></span>… <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">__much greater focus on Kashmir__</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.1</span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Second, overstretch—current policy overextends our forces and risks complete foreign policy abandonment</span> Kretkowski, 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">__The U.S. could "win" in__ </span></span>… </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">power</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Two impacts:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> First—erodes our strategic reserve and kills deterrence</span>**
**Perry and Flournoy**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - former secretary of defense and senior fellow at CSIS, (William J Perry, Former Secretary of Defense, and Michele A. Flournoy, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, National Defense, “The US Military: Under Strain And At Risk,” – National Defense, May, [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/issues/2006/may/TheU.S.MilitaryUnder.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">If recruiting trends do not </span>… __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">our ability to </span>__</span>**deter aggression**.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Second—emboldens our adversaries and causes global WMD conflicts</span>**
**Florig, 10 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, <span style="color: black;">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1]]</span>)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">__There is an even larger__ </span>… <span class="Underline">__particularly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">prone to massive miscalculation.</span>__</span> And, current policy kills readiness, exposes us as a paper tiger, and causes counterbalancing—leads to great power wars and collapses hegemony</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">Pyne, 9 - </span>**<span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">Since we invaded </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Iraq six </span></span>__… <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">__US-ally Georgia__</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> this past year.</span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Plan solves – it replenishes the our strategic reserve</span> Friedman, 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is an anomaly in </span>… <span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__and re-establish its ground reserves__</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span> <span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Heg is key to de-escalate conflict and prevent great power war</span> <span style="color: black;">Thayer, 6 - </span>**




<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on </span>… <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">to the economic prosperity it provides.</span></span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">The plan stimulates a doctrinal shift in American grand strategy towards a policy of selective engagement and specific responses to problems, rather than responding blindly with COIN</span></span></span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Moselle, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Tyler, 3/19/10, Financial Times (London), “Tackling Insurgents is Not Enough for America”, Lexis)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">American counterinsurgency theory </span>has become__ </span>… <span class="Underline">__national security and foreign policy.__</span> The plan’s strategic drawdown to 40,000 troops is best for maintaining hegemony: solves public support, resource overstretch, and incentivizes regional cooperation</span>**


**Blackwill, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, senior fellow at the RAND Corporation, and US Ambassador to India (Robert, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-weight: normal;">"A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan"</span>**, Politico, 7/7,
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">What then? If the COIN </span>…<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> nuclear terrorism and the future of Iraq.</span> They can’t access offense – the US won’t renounce heg without violence</span></span>**




<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">David P. </span>**Calleo**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (University Professor at The Johns Hopkins University and Dean Acheson Professor at its Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)) </span><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">200</span></span>**9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Follies of Power: America’s Unipolar Fantasy” p. 4-5 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__It is tempting to believe__ </span>… <span style="font-size: 6pt;">another, the world grows dangerous.</span> And, hegemony still matters in a multipolar world</span>**


**Kaplan, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (George, “A Gentler Hegemony”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/12/16/AR2008121602480.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">__Of course <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">we are entering </span>__</span>… <span class="Underline">__as their own capacities rise.__</span> Contention 3 is the Insurgency</span>**




<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">We can’t win the war – ANA weakness, corruption, and Pakistan double game. The Marja operation failed and nothing will change in the future.</span>
**NYTimes, 8/12**/10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(NYTimes, 8/12/10, “The State of the War in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/13/opinion/13fri1.html?ref=Afghanistan]]) We believe that the United </span>

… __fight — on the right side.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Current policy drives insurgents into Pakistan and causes Pakistan collapse</span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Akhtar, 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">-</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__If it is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a war </span>__… __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The flood has pushed Pakistan’s institutions to the breaking point – collapse is uniquely likely now.</span>
**Landler, 8/18**/10<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Diplomatic correspondent of the New York Times (Mark, 8/18/10, NYTimes, “US Strategy in Pakistan is Upended by Floods”, [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/l/mark_landler/index.html?inline=nyt-per]]) WASHINGTON — </span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The floods in Pakistan</span>__ … __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the only source of authority.</span>__

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc270837004]][[#_Toc270759369]]</span>
Pitt, 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>


||   ||   ||   ||

||   ||   ||   ||

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide bomber in </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">situation. So should we all.</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">The plan solves insurgency violence in Pakistan – it focuses COIN in the strategic zones of the country, stopping insurgents from hiding in Pakistan and providing an incentive for those who have fled to return to Afghanistan.</span></span>
Kupchan & Simon, 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Prof International Affairs @ Georgetown and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND</span> **Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Charles & Steven, 11/4/9, Financial Times (London), “Pull the Plug on the Afghan Surge”, Lexis)**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__This revamped strategy would also__ … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to bring peace to Afghanistan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**__.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **Contention 4 is Solvency**</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">The plan focuses COIN in strategic zones and continues counterterrorism in other parts of the countr—prevents Taliban takeover</span></span>
Kupchan & Simon, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Prof International Affairs @ Georgetown and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND </span>**Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Charles & Steven, 11/4/9, Financial Times (London), “Pull the Plug on the Afghan Surge”, Lexis)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Although the aborted electoral run-off </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the US invasion in 2001.</span> Fighting the war where the Taliban is strong means we can’t win the war even if we win every battle. The plan is our only shot to prevent defeat.</span>


**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Dorronsoro, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">- visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2/9/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Going South in Afghanistan,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20794]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">__Making good on a central__ </span></span>… <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">__and make a responsible exit.__</span></span></span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Withdrawal cuts off Taliban momentum and shores up Karzai legitimacy, even if it remains corrupt.</span></span> <span style="color: black;">Dorronsoro, 9 -</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf]]</span>)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">__Beginning the Withdrawal of Combat__ </span></span>… __<span class="Underline">independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.</span>__</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">Withdrawal to the strategic zones doesn’t cause al-Qaeda takeover – counterterrorism continues to protect the regions without coalition forces and the Afghan government doesn’t have control over those places anyway.</span></span> <span style="color: black;">Dorronsoro, 9 -</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">__Beginning the Withdrawal of Combat__ </span></span>… <span class="Underline">__bring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">clear gains for al-Qaeda</span>.__</span>



=Negative= 



==﻿1NC A Spec== 

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">A. Interpretation: the aff must specify the branch of the USfg that does the plan </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">B. Standards: 1. Ground – we lose all actor-specific case turns, counterplans, and DAs. They can always shift out of a certain part of the USFG. 2. Real world education Brovero 94 (Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation : Borderline Policies” Wake Forest Debate Site [[http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm]]) Now imagine another debate. You … not reflecting the "real world." C. Voter for fairness, education, and jurisdiction </span> [[#LastEdit]] </span>










==﻿1NC Alliance DA== 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. ground forces key to maintain a credible nuclear guarantee for Seoul </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Payne, et. al, 10 – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Forward deployment of forces</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, then, …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">essential to the nuclear guarantee</span>. Withdrawing forces kills the alliance- they’re the lynchpin of US-ROK relations—turns case and causes global instability Sharp 10 (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) </span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">A key part of U.S. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">…key national interest to the U.S. Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea Goh, 8 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) The centrality of these mutual … would appear to be much worse. </span> </span>













==﻿1NC XO CP== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Text: The President of the United States should end United States military presence and bases in South Korea. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> XO can solve the aff Cooper 2 (Phillip, Prof of Public Administration @ Portland State, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action) The deployment of troops has …setting in motion the invasion of Grenada.ml And, XO avoids politics Mayer 01 (Kenneth, Proff. Of Polt. Science Univ. of Wisconsin, Princeton Univ., “With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power”, p. 90, http://www.questiaschool.com/read/103282967?title=With%20the%20Stroke%20of%20a%20Pen%3a%20Executive%20Orders%20and%20Presidential%20Power) CBC Since executive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">orders are a </span>… delivering on promises made to key constituencies. </span>











==﻿1NC START Ptx DA== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">New START will pass but votes are not certain </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">McLaughlin, 9-22</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Jonathan, NRDC Blog, Switchboard, [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]] After an entire summer of …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">67 votes is not a given</span>. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Plan unpopular Raymond F. DuBious 5/4/2010 (Writer for Center For Strategic and International Studies) “Transferring Operational Control of South Korean Forces” http://csis.org/publication/transferring-operational-control-south-korean-forces Recent events have reignited the …eventually from “leading to supporting.” Political capital is key Rogov 10 (Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Sciences Institute of the United States of America and Canada, in an Interview by Vasiliy Voropayev, Russian pundit views Obama 's first year, prospects for relations with USA, lexis, BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union – Political, lexis) The domestic political situation in …Russia and the United States. The impacts are nuclear miscalc, relations, and Russia war—START is key Rojansky and Collins 2/16/10 (Matthew and James, executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America + director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "START is key to reducing the nuclear threat," [[http://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/81321-start-is-key-to-reducing-the-nuclear-threat?tmpl=component&print=1&page=]]) But arguments from both hawks … it is where we must begin. </span>













==Bronx Strats== 

Bronx Rd 1:
1NC: A Spec, Alliance DA, XO CP, START, Framework, Baudrillard, Case
2NC: Case, Alliance DA
1NR: Baudrillard
2NR: Baudrillard

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]