[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States Federal government should withdraw its military and police presence from the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.



Contention One is ‘The Long War’</span></span>
**In Afghanistan, the US is digging in for the Long War, an indefinite deployment. The 2014 withdrawal deadline will not be met, just as the 2011 and 2008 deadlines were not**
Wood 10 (DAVID WOOD. 8/25, Chief Military Correspondent, The Long War: Afghanistan After July 2011, Politics Daily,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/08/25/the-long-war-afghanistan-after-july-2011/]]</span>)
The reality, __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">in Afghanistan</span>__ if … __, and the fighting, will go on.__



<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention Two is ‘Empire State of Mind’</span>
**First, In the last decade, the US has subscribed to the doctrine of New Militarism, submitting to the war machine through arms production, military intervention, and policies framed by the ever present threat of war.**
**Boggs 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl, Professor of social science National University, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, p1)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">The United States has become … </span>____domination within the global system.__ </span>
**Second, This dogmatic reliance on militarism as a necessary value system is the precursor for dehumanization, racism, sexism, and constant cycles of international and domestic violence.**
**COMD 1** (Committee opposed to militarism and the draft, Sept 4, 2001, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.comdsd.org/militarism.htm]]</span>)

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Militarism is a value system that … </span>__militarism, the military establishment itself.</span>
**Third, Afghanistan is the worst manifestations of this logic- we need to problematize our intervention take a stance against militarist violence. We’ll isolate two reasons why Afghanistan is key:**



**First – Discourse. The occupation of Afghanistan is perpetuated through the rhetoric of the long war. The constant demand for military** **<span style="color: #141413;">solutions and the need for new ‘enemies’ of the occupation legitimize cycles of violence</span>**
**Shor 10** (Francis Shor, War in the Era of Declining U.S. Global Hegemony Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2 (2010) , pg 65)
__<span style="color: #141413;">Wh<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">at has been pursued by … </span></span>__<span style="color: #141413;">. Over the first year and continuing </span>
**In particular, the status-quo understanding of Afghanistan relies on a series of paternalistic myths that distract from the underlying causes of material inequalities in favor of intervention**
**Crowe 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(L. A. Crowe York University 2007 The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’ , <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://turin.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">historical production of particular … </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the ‘militarization’ discourse/myth. </span>



**Second is Bases – The US is in the middle of a large base construction movement of over 700 bases designed to make US presence permanent**
**Turse 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick Turse, The 700 Military Bases of Afghanistan, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175204/]]</span>)
Nearly a decade after the Bush … it base-building, in Afghanistan.</span>
**Bases are the worst manifestations of militarism- they sacrifice local culture, the environment, and mask systemic violence**
**Wilcox 3** (Richard Wilcox , United States Militarism,Global Instability and, Environmental Destruction, December, 2003,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www9.ocn.ne.jp/%7Easlan/rwilcox.htm|http://www9.ocn.ne.jp/~aslan/rwilcox.htm]]</span></span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gerson & Birchard (1991) provides a broader perspective … fighter jets and other activities. </span>


**And ‘baseworld’ is the final step towards total domination of the War Machine. The state is subsumed to the demands of the military industrial complex, creating an ‘empire of bases’ which makes war an inevitable state with no other aim than itself**
Buchanan 6 (Ian Buchanan. Cardiff University, Treatise on Militarism, symploke 14.1/2 (2006) 152-168)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When the aim of war … militarism as an incorporeal system.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The USFG’s constructs terrorists, drug traffickers, and Afghani farmers as threats to maintain military build up, but rather than making us safer, it causes resentment and risks planetary extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Boggs 5 (Carl, Professor of social science National University, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War)
In the midst of dramatic … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">peace, perhaps even <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">planetary survival.</span> </span>__


**Military planners vastly over-estimate threats and the effectiveness of military solutions. They have an inherent incentive to perpetuate war**
**Van Evera 1** (Stephen, MIT, Publications and Working Papers 2001, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hdl.handle.net/1721.1/5545]]</span>).
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">This chapter argues that professional … than in fact they are. </span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 16pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have a specific scenario- occupying Afghanistan will eventually compel policymakers to intervene with Russia and China over energy routes.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vorpahl 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Vorpahl. Jan 1, 2009. “A New … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 12pt;">propel things in this direction</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention Three is ‘ecocide’</span></span>
First, US military presence in Afghanistan creates millions of kilograms of hazardous waste and irreversibly devastates the ecosphere endangering Afghan health and breaking international laws
**Nasuti 10** (Matthew Nasuti, The American Military is Creating an Environmental Disaster in Afghanistan, April 2010,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18883]]</span></span>)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The American military presence in … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and their exotic chemicals caused.</span>


Second, These tragedies are not accidental—they are the deliberate offshoots of a militarist logic in which the environment is expendable. Our constant march toward ecocide ensures extinction
Irina Pollard, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, 2003 (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics, Volume 13, Available Online at <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm]]</span></span>)
<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">The hostile actions of war … </span>endangered by human over-appropriation.



<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention four is Solvency</span>
**First, The roll of the ballot is that of public intellectual. You have a responsibility to reject militarization and its depictions of violence on face. The discursive act of 1AC allows us to disrupt global systems of power, creating space for libratory politics.**
**Giroux, 2004** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, “War on Terror The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States,” Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 220-221)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the forces of militarisation … a dreadful pact with a creeping and </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">dangerous authoritarianism. <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">We find ourselves in the midst of a war globally</span>, not simply a war against terrorism but also a war <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">against democratic solidarity</span> in which a democratic future both at home and abroad stands in the balance.</span>__


<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, Ending the occupation sends shockwaves through the American empire. It makes our blind faith in the military a political question and causes withdrawal from all foreign bases</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jacob G. Hornberger, founder and … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of dollars necessary to support it.</span>__</span>




**Third, Withdrawal taps into the global anti-base movement, ensuring spillover.**
Andrew **<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Yeo, 9</span>** Prof @ Catholic University of America, "Not in Anyone’s Backyard: The Emergence and Identity of a Transnational Anti-Base Network" International Studies Quarterly (2009), 53, 571–594
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the 2007 No Bases conference … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">justice movements through a spillover process.</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth, Criticizing the US role in Afghanistan fuels the anti-militarism movement to achieve lasting spillover</span>**
**Zeese 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin, Deceit and Truth Are Feeding Resistance to US Militarism, 26 December, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://ephraiyim.wordpress.com/2010/12/26/deceit-and-truth-are-feeding-resistance-to-us-militarism/]]</span>)
Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that could collapse at anytime.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fifth, We should challenge American interventionism</span>**
**Hornberger 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacob G Blame Statism for the Disasters in Iraq and Afghanistan, September 22, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2010-09-22.asp]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Or consider Afghanistan, whose government … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">statism, especially <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">interventionism and empire</span>.</span>__


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth, </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our continued presence in Afghanistan numbs us to the deaths of thousands of civilians</span>**
Hornberger 11 (Jacob G. Hornberger, January 12, 2011, The Banality of Killing, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fff.org/comment/com1101g.asp]]</span>)
But let’s face it: <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">S</span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 12pt;">uch killings … </span>__high, has been considered worth it.</span>
**Seventh, Afghan stability will happen only after we leave**
**Ely 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mike Ely. March 26, 2010. “Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Aghanistan”. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://revolutionaryfrontlines.wordpress.com/2010/03/26/demand-complete-and-immediate-withdrawal-from-aghanistan/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we mean by “</span>__good …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is not the same thing).</span></span>




**Eighth, Worst -case scenario planning supports a militarized decision calculus which guarantees miscalculation and violence. Constructed apocalypse stories are just another way to support Militarism**
**Krepon, 2009** (Michael, Co-Founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, a Diplomat Scholar at the University of Virginia “ Why Inflating Threats Won't Reduce Them ” Foreign Affairs, May 2009 - June 2009 Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 3)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Today, as was the case … States and foreign intelligence services.__</span>


**Ninth, Realism justifies US imperialism and militarism linking back to our critique of the status quo**
**Craig 4** (Campbell, October, American Realism Versus American Imperialism, World Politics 57.1 (2004) 143-171)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Nevertheless, there seems to be … since the beginning of history.30 </span>

=Negative= 

==Lifton== 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The affirmative’s attempt to shut down discussion of nuclear violence paradoxically results in more nuclear violence. Rather than suppress all crisis rhetoric, as their evidence advocates, we need to recognize the existential threat posed by nuclear weapons </span></span>**
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Lifton 1 (Robert J, Illusions of the Second Nuclear Age, World Policy Journal, Spring, 2001)  </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]