[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==**Wake forest 1ac**== 

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Plan: <span style="color: black;">The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with counterterrorism</span> </span>**



Advantage one: Hegemony

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Scenario one: Credibility</span> </span>

2011 Deadline kills Credibility- Confusion of government and false Political promises

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin 10</span></span> (Josh, staff writer for Foreign Policy 6/29http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights)// </span>

//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Troop deadline is impossible – Trilemma of Counterinsurgency prevents success</span> </span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zambernelli 10</span></span>( Lorenzo, writer for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly,http://www.twq.com/10july/docs/10jul_Zambernardi.pdf , July 2010//

//Counterinsurgency fails- Coercion and no security in the region//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hallinan 10</span></span> (Conn, Columnist for Foreign policy in Focus <span style="color: black;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_great_myth_counterinsurgency, </span>7/22/10,)//

//Counterinsurgency Fails- Hearts and Minds are lost and saps troop morale//

//<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 10</span></span> (Ann, Journalist Author and consultant for the Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ann-jones/counterinsurgency-down-fo_b_632275.html, 7/1/10)//


//Afghanistan failure spills over – dictates foreign policy and gives credibility for controversial policies//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fernholz 10</span></span> – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress</span>//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> The American Prospect, March, 2010, lexis) </span>//


//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan restores US credibility – gains leverage and stops political pressure </span></span></span>//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart 10</span></span>(Rory, Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)</span>//

//Scenario 2: Overstretch//

//Counterterrorism k2 power challenges – COIN overstretches US military//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski 10</span></span> (Paul, assists think tank work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)</span>//



//Perceived Overstretch bad- destroys deterrence spurring aggression//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan and O’Hanlon 7</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Frederick Kagan; Prof. Military History @ United States Military Academy, </span></span>//
//<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0in;">Scholar @ American Enterprise Institute, Michael O’Hanlon; Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institution, Defense Strategy Analyst, April 2007) </span>//

//Collapse of Hegemony bad- Multiple scenarios for nuclear Omnicide//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span></span> (Senior Associate @ the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (End of Dreams, Return of History, Policy Review, Hoover Institution,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]]</span>) </span>//


//Turns don’t apply – World would shift to apolarity//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 4</span></span> (Niall Tisch Professor of History, Harvard University; Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, 4, “When Empires Wane.)//

//Sustained Withdrawal key- replenishes strategic reserves//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 10</span></span> (George, chief intelligence and CEO, Stratfor. 6/29,//
//http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan)//

//Counterterrorism solves – sustainable peace through vacillation//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart 9</span></span><span class="Heading1Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">(</span></span>Ryan Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, <span style="color: black;">http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan 9</span>/16/09)//

//We solve – plan shifts to selective engagement//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gventer 9</span></span> - Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1, http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html)//


//Advantage Two: The Insurgency//

//Counterinsurgency efforts fail – drives insurgents to Pakistan collapsing it//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Nation 9</span></span> ( Magazine, http://www.thenation.com/article/dont-escalate-afghanistan, February 4, 2009)//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taliban winning hearts and minds of the population- Government focus on floods </span></span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shah 10</span></span> ( Saeed, writer for the Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/03/islamist-groups-pakistan-aid-void, August 10, 2010)//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hearts and Minds key – Insurgents will take over the state without it </span></span>//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newmann 8</span></span><span style="color: black;">(William W., April, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, Virginia Commonwealth University, “Hegemonic Competition, Hegemonic Disruption and the Current War”, pg. 30)</span></span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Insurgent takeover bad – release of nuclear and biological strikes by 2011 </span></span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marvin 7</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Cetron, President, Forecasting International, 2007, The Futurist, May-June 2007)</span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioweapons are destructive – triggers nuclear WWIII </span></span>//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alexander 7</span></span> **(**Timothy, Former Scottish Editor of Burke’s Peerage, B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, October 22nd, “War On Iran = You Die from Biowar”, Op Ed News, http://www.opednews.com/articles/genera_lord_sti_071020_war_on_iran__3d_you_di.htm, REQ)__//

//Nuclear Terrorism is devastating – Civilization would crumble//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sid-Ahmed 4</span></span> (Political Analyst, Al-Ahram Mohamed, Al-Ahram Weekly, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm<span style="color: black;">)</span>//

//Sustained Withdrawal good – Taliban loses civilian population and Karzai legitmacy//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span></span> (Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace January 2009, Gilles, “http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf)//


//Sustained Presence key – more effective US leadership and credibility//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chellany 9</span></span> (Brahma professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research 9/14/09, , Japan Timeshttp:</span>//search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html)

Counterterrorism turns don’t apply – size sufficient to provide force protection, intelligence gathering, army training, and support of the population

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long 10</span></span> (Austin, assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)</span>


=Negative= 







==Politics== 
===START=== 
__**<span style="color: black;">START will pass--Lugar support, bipartisan consensus being built now</span>**__





__<span style="color: black;"> **Rogin 9/7/10**</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(Josh, Foreign Policy, "Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback," </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback]]</span>__

__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 7.0pt;">The initial draft ...... </span><span class="AUnterdline">in favor of new START</span><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 7.0pt;">. </span>__









[[#_Toc264986022]]

__<span class="CiteChar">**Rogov 10**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views <span class="term">Obama</span>'s first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis) </span>__



The domestic political ..... Russia and the United States__.__ 


== == 






**START key to improving U.S. Russian relations and stopping nuclear proliferation**

**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">John Isaacs 09 </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/nuclearweapons/articles/how_the_new_start_treaty_increases_us_security/]]</span>, John Isaacs is the Executive Director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation where his work focuses on national security issues in Congress, Iraq, missile defense, and nuclear weapons.//.//”How the New Start Treaty Increases U.S. Security”] </span>

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">New START is </span>** Iran’s nuclear program. 







**U.S.-Russia Relations K2 middle east stability, global energy security, curb nationalism, global warming, pandemic diseases, prolif, and the global economy**
**Graham 8** <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Thomas Graham, f</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">oreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> July 2008 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf </span>

The world has entered a ................... security economic structures__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__


==Security== 
===Afghanistan 1NC=== 







**T****he concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
//<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Approaches that deconstruct</span>////<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 24px;">.” Hence framing is a meta-argument</span>


**Their representations of the “middle east” and Afghanistan are grounded in an ethnocentric viewpoint that stigmatizes and justifies the securitization of the Afghani people.**
**Bilgin 04—**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">assistant prof, IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales (Pinar, Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security, http://www.arts.yorku.ca/politics/ncanefe/docs/readings%20for%20the%20curious%20mind/Pinar%20Bilgin%20on%20Whose%20Middle%20East.pdf, AMiles) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">t </span>//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">the ‘Middle East’ has developed to</span>// //<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">its present condition......</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> voiced by myriad non-state actors</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. </span>

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their descriptions will be used to justify massive violence**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Karsten **Friis,** UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The problem with societal securitization .......</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">where truth is never questioned. </span>//</span>


**Vote negative to reject the violent logic of security. Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">e </span>//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">inability to give meaning ...............</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> academic defence and security community</span>//

<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">**Representations must precede policy discussion** </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">Neta </span>**<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">Crawford</span>** <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. </span>Argument and Change in World Politics, 20**0****<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">2</span>**<span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21 </span>
<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="background: aqua; color: black;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="background: aqua; color: black;">are unlikely </span></span><span style="color: black;">” Hence framing is a meta-argument. </span>



===South Korea 1NC=== 






**The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Approaches that deconstruct</span>////<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 24px;">.” Hence framing is a meta-argument</span></span>

**The status quo is NOT fundamentally different from the past. Scary predictions of Asian instability are based on cultural misunderstandings and have been repeatedly disproven.**
**Kang 03** Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85) 

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Following the end of the Cold War</span> i.............<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> necessary theoretical exercise. </span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their descriptions will be used to justify massive violence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in; padding: 0px;">Karsten **Friis,** UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in; padding: 0px;">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The problem with societal securitization .......</span>// //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">where truth is never questioned.</span>//</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Vote negative to reject the violent logic of security. Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">e </span>//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">inability to give meaning ...............</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> academic defence and security community</span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">**Representations must precede policy discussion**</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">Neta </span>**<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">Crawford</span>** <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. </span></span>Argument and Change in World Politics__, 20**0****<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">2</span>**<span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">are unlikely </span></span><span style="color: black;">” Hence framing is a meta-argument.</span></span>

=<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Counter-Narcotics CP [Just for you Amanda]</span>= 

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"> </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Text: The United States federal Government should increase troop levels by ten thousand troops and eliminate national restrictions, substantially increase financial aid, deemphasize opium eradication, focus on long-term alternative livelihoods, aggressively pursue drug kingpins and corrupt government officials, for C<span class="apple-style-span">ounternarcotics activity in Afghanistan</span> </span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;"> </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The five Pillars work – Too much focus on a “quick fix” causes failure </span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Glaze 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology</span> “<span style="font-size: 7pt;">OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN: REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY</span>” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf]]</span> </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;"><span class="AUnterdline">The U.S. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">five-pillared </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">………</span> ineffective counternarcotics program</span>. </span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]