=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">September-October</span>= 
== == 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ought is defined as “used to express moral duty or obligation”. Thus, the </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">value is morality. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Your ballot functions to resolve the question: is a world without nuclear weapons worth struggling for? Ought we reprimand ourselves for not working hard enough to give birth to this world? </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dennis Kucinich </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">argues for this uniquely moral dimension to politics: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Representative Dennis Kucinich, “A Call to Action; Peace and Nuclear Disarmament”, April 1, 2002, [[http://www.counterpunch.org/kucinichdisarm.html|http://www.counterpunch.org/kucinichdisarm.html ]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__Neither individuals nor . . . time and space.__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**We must risk the impossible when faced with ethical issues. Daly, 04** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Glyn Daly, “Risking the Impossible”, 2004, lacan.com[[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm|http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Zizek, a confrontation . . . 5 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**__risk[s] the impossible.__**   </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is the Humanity Formula. Best test for morality because: </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1) The Humanity Formula is necessary to respect other agents. Robert Johnson writes: </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Robert Johnson, “Kant’s Moral Philosophy”, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, April 6, 2008, [[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-moral/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Most philosophers who . . . also invite misunderstandings. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria;">2) Treating humans as mere instruments allows for the calculation of human life’s worth. This calculation can extend to the point of human life counting as nothing, allowing for morally reprehensible atrocities to occur. **Michael** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Dillon writes: </span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Michael Dillon, Professor Political Theory at Lancaster,Political theory,Another Justice, 1999, p. 165 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 7.5pt;">Economies of evaluation . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">requirement for decision. </span>__**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3) Deontological views on nuclear weapons are key to preventing their use, and are preferable for debate in general; Cuban Missile Crisis proves. Gregory Kavka writes: </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Gregory S. Kavka, “Morality and Nuclear Politics: Lessons of the Missile Crisis”, published in “Nuclear Weapons and the Future of Humanity” edited by Anver Cohen and Steven Lee, 1986, page 249 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, to the . . . paradox is sustained. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[R1: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) **Nuclear Weapons are unjustifiable because they intend to harm innocents. Thomas Donaldson write** **s :** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">Donaldson, Thomas. Thomas Donaldson 1985 [professor of legal studies and business ethics at Wharton school] “Nuclear Deterrence and self defense” [ Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 537-548] [ [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2381036.pdf|http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2381036.pdf ]]]. 1985. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Furthermore, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">very </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. . . </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">human </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">species. </span>__
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B)] </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons necessitates indigenous holocaust as a means to achieving the ends of nuclear armament. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most of the activity necessary for the production of nuclear weapons occurs on native lands. Clay Jason writes: </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Clay Jason, “Armed Struggle and Indigenous People”, Cultural Survival Quarterly, Issue 11.4 (Winter 1987), Militarization and Indigenous Peoples: Part 2 Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. [[http://www.culturalsurvival.org/publications/cultural-survival-quarterly/afghanistan/armed-struggle-and-indigenous-people|http://www.culturalsurvival.org/publications/cultural-survival-quarterly/afghanistan/armed-struggle-and-indigenous-people ]]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Nearly 100 percent . . . </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8pt;">warning of risk. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**This “mining” and “testing” is not only an exploitation of Indigenous peoples by First World nations, but is constant nuclear war that affects the lives of indigenous people on a daily basis. Masahide Kato writes:** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Masahide Kato (Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii), “Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze”, //Alternatives 18// (published 1993), pages 339-360. **__The only instances . . .__** **__a daily basis.__** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">**William Nietschman and Bernard Le Bon here call upon the citizens of the United States to demand that the United States Government and other nations end their nuclear war against native people as these nations are unable to resist the First World militarily. Thus it is imperative to vote up this position, to privilege my discourse as it is literally the only for us to solve for the atrocious violence occurring in the status quo. They explain.** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">William Nietschman, Bernard Le Bon, “Nuclear Weapon States and Fourth World Nations”, Cultural Survival Quarterly, Issue 11.4 (Winter 1987), Militarization and Indigenous Peoples: Part 2 Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.[[http://www.culturalsurvival.org/ourpublications/csq/article/nuclear-weapon-states-and-fourth-world-nations|http://www.culturalsurvival.org/ourpublications/csq/article/nuclear-weapon-states-and-fourth-world-nations ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__The United States . . . the United States.__** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Western Shoshone National Council, "Western Shoshone Land Rights and the Nevada Nuclear Test Site"). </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Round 3: Cathleen and Colleen McGuire write </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Cathleen and Colleen McGuire, Robin Z., Mary Ellen B. [surnames withheld] “Nuclear Testing in the Pacific” July 6, 1993, EVE ONLINE,[[http://eve.enviroweb.org/perspectives/main.html#essays|http://eve.enviroweb.org/perspectives/main.html#essays ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This month we . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: medium;">**__these indigenous people__** .] </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">Theory: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) Interp: Evaluative standards must be weighable </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) Violation: Negative uses a permissibility burden. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C) Standards: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1) Infinitely Regressive </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2) Ground </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D) Voter: Education </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sigel 1984. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Doug Sigel. [Former debate coach and professor at Northwestern University]. “The Punishment Theory: Illegitimate Styles and Theories as Voting Issues.” 1984. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A second reason . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">job of debating.</span>__**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 25px;">**Negative** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">FW:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">neg burden: prove the permissibility of possession of nuclear weapons by states </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">V: morality </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">VC: Preserving Life </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">1) natural goal of all ethical theories </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">2) Policy-makers use it. Policy-making good. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">Theory: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">A) Interp: Aff must defend implementation of disarmament </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">B) Violation: They said they wouldn't in C-X </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">C) Standards: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">1) Real-world. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13px;">Strait and Wallace 2007. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">L. Paul Strait (George Mason University) and Brett Wallace (George Washington University). “The Scope of Negative Fiat and the Logic of Decision Making.” WFU Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.[[[http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/2007/The%20Scope%20of%20Negative%20Fiat%20and|http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/2007/The%20Scope%20of%20Negative%20Fiat%20and ]]%20the%20Logic%20of%20Decision%20Making.pdf]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13px;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The ability to . . . </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">all of our lives. </span>__**</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2) Lit Checks Predictability: **Brian Martin** **1990** : </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Principles for antiwar strategies, Brian Martin, “Uprooting War” 1990 version.[[http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw02.html|http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw02.html ]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">If all the . . . </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">**__the previous level__** . </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3) Depth </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D) Voter: Education. Sigel 1984. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Doug Sigel. [Former debate coach and professor at Northwestern University]. “The Punishment Theory: Illegitimate Styles and Theories as Voting Issues.” 1984. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A second reason . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">better job of debating. </span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 19px;">Deterrence: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**A) Disarmament will destroy nuclear deterrence, destabilize the globe, and cause advanced conventional warfare. Dvorsky, 09** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">George Dvorsky, “The Perils of Nuclear Disarmament: How Relinquishment Could Result in Disaster”, Institute for Ethics & Emerging Technologies, Mar 31, 2009,[[http://ieet.org/index.php/IEET/more/2985/|http://ieet.org/index.php/IEET/more/2985/ ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__Today’s global geopolitical . . .__** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">never be used. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) Conventional Wars would kill hundreds of millions. Brian Martin writes: </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Brian Martin (Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong), “Nuclear disarmament is not enough”, Peace Studies, No. 3, June/July 1986, pp. 36-39. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear disarmament is . . . </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__millions of people.__ </span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">Japan Rearm: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Japan won’t nuclearize now but the door is open, US nuclear weapon possession is key to preventing nuclearization. Hughes 2007 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Llewelyn Hughes , doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Spring 200 7 , “Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet); International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan”, International Security, Lexis | Suo </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Japan's status as . . . </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">leader preferences change. </span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. US nuclear guarantee is the crucial internal link to nuclear rearmament. Nikitin and Chanlett Avery 2009 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs and Mary Beth Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Congressional Research Service, 2/19/09, “Japan's Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests”, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perhaps </span><span class="DottedUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the single . . . </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">independent nuclear capability. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif;">. Japanese nuclearization triggers a regional arms race causing nuclear war. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria;">Interfax 2006 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Interfax</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">, “Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” November 2006, [[http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The emergence </span>**</span></span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">of . . . </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">he said. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">**d. The impact is global nuclear conflict.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Toshimura Ogura, Economics Professor at Toyama University, MONTHLY REVIEW, April 1997, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n11_v48/ai_19693242/pg_8|http://findarticles.com/p/articles/m..._19693242/pg_8 ]]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**__<span style="background-color: #ffff00; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">North Korea, South . . . </span>__**</span><span class="DottedUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**__<span style="background-color: #ffff00; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">a global conflagration. </span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">Asteroids: </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626;">A) Magnitude and probability for the impact of asteroid strike are 100%. Radford, 01. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tim Radford, science editor, “End of the world is nigh, scientists insist”, The Guardian, Friday 7 September 2001,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2001/sep/07/physicalsciences.spaceexploration|http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2001/sep/07/physicalsciences.spaceexploration ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="color: #262626;">Researchers review the . . . </span>__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626;">**__Tunguska in Siberia.__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) NPR explains the implication of small asteroid strike: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">**“Scientists Gather at Conference to Stop Asteroids”, ALEX CHADWICK, March 5, 2007, NPR News, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=7713661&ps=rs|http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=7713661&ps=rs ]]**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AILOR: Some people . . . </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__a populated area.__ </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626;">C) Nuclear Detonation solves. Radford, 01 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626; font-size: 9pt;">Tim Radford, science editor, “End of the world is nigh, scientists insist”, The Guardian, Friday 7 September 2001, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2001/sep/07/physicalsciences.spaceexploration|http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2001/sep/07/physicalsciences.spaceexploration ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626; font-size: 8pt;">The British government . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626;">**__It would miss us."__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**D) Don’t just say this is illegit and drop it. Policy-makers recognize that asteroids outweigh terrorism. NPR, 07.** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Greenfieldboyce, “NASA Report on Asteroids Suggests Nuclear Option”, NPR News, March 13, 2007, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=7867322|http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=7867322 ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Congressman Dana Rohrabacher __<span style="color: #262626;">. . . </span>__**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626;">__ever imagine. [end quote]__ </span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Female Dolphins CP</span>



A) Text: All nuclear w eapons states should dismantle their phallic-shaped rockets and missiles and use the warheads removed to create nuclear bombs shaped like dolphins. I’ll clarify.

B) The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the aff. And it’s dispositional.

C) Solvency: Their link story to patriarchy and oppression is predicated on the fact that nuclear weapons are phallic-shaped. By removing this element from nuclear weapons I take out their link story and nuclear weapons no longer are patriarchal or masculine projections of power. Thus you negate as they no longer have access to their impact story.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">Zombies: </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) Text: All States who possess nuclear weapons should reduce their arsenal to 10 weapons for the purpose of combating zombie outbreak. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) Competiveness: It’s mutually exclusive. The aff can’t defend State possession of nuclear weapons as that’s literally an act of negation </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C) Solvency: </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1) Zombie Apocalypse has happened before, and can happen again: One of the most advanced civilizations in North America: the Anasazi people of New Mexico, were completely destroyed by a zombie outbreak. The ZRS in 2k10 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“NEW MEXICO ZOMBIE OUTBREAK” 04/27/2010, ZRS Staff, Zombie Research Society, [[http://zombieresearch.net/2010/04/27/new-mexico-zombie-outbreak/|http://zombieresearch.net/2010/04/27/new-mexico-zombie-outbreak/ ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">One of the . . . </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__overpowering zombie threat.__ </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2) Nuclear weapons are key to ending zombie outbreak. Foreignpolicy.com, 09 </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Daniel W. Drezner, “Theory of International Politics and Zombies”, Foreign Policy, August 18, 2009, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://drezner.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/08/18/theory_of_international_politics_and_zombies|http://drezner.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/08/18/theory_of_international_politics_and_zombies ]]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The key to . . .__ </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__non-infected casualties__ </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3) Impact: The professors at the Carleton University School of Mathematics constructed several statistical and mathematical models of zombie outbreak and concluded that aggressive attack of an outbreak is the only way to solve for extinction. They write: </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Philip Munz, Ioan Hudea, Joe Imad, Robert J. Smith, School of Mathematics and Statistics, Carleton University, “WHEN ZOMBIES ATTACK!: MATHEMATICAL MODELLING OF AN OUTBREAK OF ZOMBIE INFECTION”, Infectious Disease Modelling Research Progress, published 2009 @ Nova Science Publishers Inc.[[http://mysite.science.uottawa.ca/rsmith43/Zombies.pdf|http://mysite.science.uottawa.ca/rsmith43/Zombies.pdf ]]</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__An outbreak of . . .__ </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__they eradicate us.__ </span>**

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NOVEMBER-DECEMBER</span>= 

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AFFIRMATIVE</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**OBSERVATION 1 IS THE STATUS QUO** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**A) The CIA, Bush, and corporate interests have empirically fed drugs to the ghetto through the contras and enforced harsh drug laws on people of color through the criminal justice system. This amounts to ethnic cleansing of colored communities. Catherine Austin Fitts was a Washington insider and wall street investment banker with ties to bush through HUD who witnessed first-hand this interconnected war on colored communities in Los Angeles since the 80’s, she writes in 99:** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Catherine Austin Fitts, “Former Bush Assistant Secretary for HUD Reveals "Ethnic Cleansing" Connected to CIA Drug Dealing in Los Angeles”,   The Wilderness Publications, May, 1999,[[http://www.fromthewilderness.com/free/economy/ethnic_cleansing_usa.html|http://www.fromthewilderness.com/free/economy/ethnic_cleansing_usa.html ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__Ethnic cleansing is . . .__** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">were a black problem. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**B) This isn’t just speculation or a conspiracy theory, incarceration rates for minorities are empirically extremely disproportionate to the incarceration rates for whites. Lets kick the numbers. Cole in 2k10** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Jack A. Cole, executive director of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, retired detective lieutenant—26 years with the New Jersey State Police and 14 in their Narcotic Bureau, “Why End Drug Prohibition? Stops Racism, Ends Violence”, Prison Movement, August 27, 2010, [[http://prisonmovement.wordpress.com/2010/08/27/why-end-drug-prohibition-stops-racism-ends-violence/|http://prisonmovement.wordpress.com/2010/08/27/why-end-drug-prohibition-stops-racism-ends-violence/ ]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">According to the 1998 . . . the rate of whites.[8] </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**C) This “War on Drugs” is the biggest financial and ideological support for the United States' prison industrial complex. Cole in 2k10.** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Jack A. Cole, executive director of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, retired detective lieutenant—26 years with the New Jersey State Police and 14 in their Narcotic Bureau, “Why End Drug Prohibition? Stops Racism, Ends Violence”, Prison Movement, August 27, 2010,[[http://prisonmovement.wordpress.com/2010/08/27/why-end-drug-prohibition-stops-racism-ends-violence/|http://prisonmovement.wordpress.com/2010/08/27/why-end-drug-prohibition-stops-racism-ends-violence/ ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Another way at . . . i </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">n a democratic society. </span>__**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**D) The policing of communities of color in this prison industrial complex is the root cause of The United States' genocidal White Supremacist mindset internationally and domestically. Rodriguez, 07.** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Dylan Rodríguez, “AMERICAN GLOBALITY AND THE U. S. PRISON REGIME: STATE VIOLENCE AND WHITE SUPREMACY FROM ABU GHRAIB TO STOCKTON TO BAGONG DIWA”, University of California, Riverside, Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Variable, overlapping, and . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__civil/social neutralization.__** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**OBSERVATION 2 IS THE WORD FROM THE STREET:** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**[PLAY PERUVIAN COKE BY IMMORTAL TECHNIQUE FROM 1:59-3:12** **,** **[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sTBSKT79H8|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sTBSKT79H8 ]]]** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OBSERVATION 3 IS THE SOLVENCY: My use of hip hop in a debate round is a critique of normative knowledge within the debate community. This alternative knowledge by organic intellectuals is the only way to confront racism and thus solve for the issues presented by the affirmative. Reid-Brinkley writes: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">SHANARA ROSE REID-BRINKLEY </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, “ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">THE HARSH REALITIES OF ‘ACTING BLACK’: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE”, Emory University. Published May 2005. [[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf|http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The process of signifyin’ engaged . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__by the status of oppression.__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 18px;">**NEGATIVE** </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biopower/ Primitivism K</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 1 is the Links: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) The logic of the affirmative’s medicalized approach is the logic and enforcement of governmental control of populations, that is biopower. A structural examination of the medicalized programs that the affirmative forwards with their advocacy reveals it to be a biopolitical and biomedicinal construct of Western culture. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SINHA in 2k </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">ARUSH,Departmentof Family MedicineUniversity of North Texas Health Science Centerat Fort WorthDepartmentof AnthropologySouthernMethodistUniversity </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">Medical Anthropology Quarterly, New Series, Vol. 14, No. 3 (Sep., 2000), pp. 291-309, “The Virtual Gaze of Health Care in the Next Century” </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__A structural approach . . .__ </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">removed from its delivery. </span>

<span style="background-color: #aaffaa; color: #008800; text-decoration: inherit;">(Mitchell Dean, “Powers of Life and Death Beyond Governmentality”, Cultural Values, August 28, 2002) The field of power . . . over the other. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) This form of calculative biopolitical control destroys the value to life by allowing it up for calculation. We must always champion the infinite value of the human and reject this form of biopolitical control. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dillon in 99 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 9pt;">Michael Dillon, Professor Political Theory at Lancaster,Political theory,Another Justice, 1999, p. 165 </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Economies of evaluation . . .__ </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__requirement for decision.__ </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 2 is the advocacy: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: I advocate a violent rejection of civilization and an embracement of an ethic of primitivism. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times,helvetica,sans-serif;">Primitivism solves for the destruction of life’s value by biopolitics as per the Dillon card. It also destroys gender difference and structural violence. Zerzan 1 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">John Zerzan, “Why Primivitism?” 2002, www.johnzerzan.net </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__It is here . . . <span style="font-size: 11px;">practices of close neighbors. </span>__</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our historical vantage point makes rejecting civilization our ethical duty. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zerzan 2 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">“SEIZE THE DAY”, John Zerzan, 2006 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">But where would one now . . . </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the spell was broken.__ </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Civilization is dehumanizing, ecocidal, and will result in extinction, Zerzan 3 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">“SEIZE THE DAY”, by John Zerzan, 2006 </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The rapidly mounting toll of modern . . .__ </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">indispensable support for industrial modernity.</span>