Kritikal Japan AFF

Plan Text : The USFG removes all Military Presence from Japan 

Adv.1 Patriarchy


Adv. 2: Imperialism

===T Substantial=== 

A. Interpretation: A substantial reduction must be at least 60,000 troops
Walter <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Posch</span></span>, specialist in Middle East security at the Institute for Security Studies in Vienna, MIDDLE EAST POLICY, VOL. XIII, NO. 3, FALL <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘6</span></span>, “STAYING THE COURSE: PERMANENT U.S. BASES IN IRAQ?” http://www.mepc.org/journal_vol13/0609_Posch.pdf

<span class="NothingChar">Discussion of the proper exit….</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> be about 60,000 troops less</span><span class="NothingChar">.</span>

B. Violation: They’re not substantial because they don’t pull out any troops

C. Topical version of your aff: Add 60,000 troops to the affirmative

D. Vote neg:
1. Limits: The negative explodes the topic by putting their 1AC into their mix which screws up the amount topical cases that could be run on this resolution – by delimiting the topic they make the affirmative advantage too extreme, devastating the possibility of clash. As long as we win that the affirmative interpretation is bad for debate, you should vote neg.

2. Fairness: competitive equity is necessary for good debate – education is beneficial as well but in the debate world TOPIC EDUCATION is better and is dictated by fairness – prefer our interpretation of the T debate.
[[#_Toc267831948]]
===PMC Politics Afghanistan 1NC=== 


Obama administration wants to reduce military use of PMCs now 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Peace Research Institute</span></span>, Oslo (PRIO), 1/200<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>, Private Military Contractors and U.S. Grand Strategy, http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/isenberg-private%20military-contractors-2009.pdf

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">After just a few weeks…</span></span> go to war without them.<span style="font-size: 7pt;">19 </span>

Pullout of Afghanistan will result in Increase use of PMC to fill in for the US military withdrawn
Jim <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fink</span></span>, 4/12/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, How To Profit From the War in Afghanistan: Military Contractors , Staff writer at investing daily, http://www.investingdaily.com/users/jim-fink-23.html
In fact, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 10pt;">troop drawdowns</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… have to replace them. </span></span>

PMCs foster anti- American sentiment in local populations
Peter W. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer</span></span>, October 02, 200<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span>, director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, The Dark Truth about Blackwater Private Military Contractors, Iraq, U.S. Military, [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2007/1002militarycontractors.aspx]]

The point here is not….<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> military chain of command." </span></span>

Public support key to Afghan stability
Paddy <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ashdown</span></span>, July 21, 200<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span>, fmr British MP and High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, “We are failing in Afghanistan,”, http://www.southasianmedia.net/index_opinion.cfm?category=Security&country=AFGHANISTAN

I recently had a rather….<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> hands after Iraq</span></span>__.__

Failure in Afghanistan will spill over to Central Asia 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Starr</span></span> Frederick, Chair – Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, Foreign Affairs, July/August 0<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span></span>, Lexis 

In relations among states,…..<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Development will halt. </span></span>

**That leads to nuclear war**
Dr. M. Ehsan <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahrari</span></span>, Professor of National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College, 8/1/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span></span> ([[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112|www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112]]) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South and </span><span class="DebateUnderline">Central Asia constitute…</span> a gain for all concerned.

===[[#_Toc267792134]][[#_Toc141689861]]=== 

START will pass – but delay damages US-Russia relations 

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler 10/6/10</span></span> (Desmond, 2010, “US-Russia nuke treaty facing hurdles in US Senate”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iwGbzbS9cELaiIfmBjxLP1o4G8-QD9H4KUL80, THE)

WASHINGTON — <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The once smooth path…. not having this is significant</span></span>."

Withdrawing is unpopular – causes Reps to blame Dems and Obama of being weak on foreign policy 

John <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer</span></span> is co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">9/1</span></span>/10, My Weak Muslim President, < [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/my_weak_muslim_president?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+FPIF+%28Foreign+Policy+In+Focus+%28All+News%29%29]]> 

Afghanistan is another matter entirely…. When in doubt, be strong. 

Pushing controversial issues drains Obama’s capital
Mark **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seidenfeld</span>**, Associate Professor, Florida State University College of Law, Iowa Law Review, October 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span>**

In addition, the propensity…. implement his policy vision.

START key to prevent nuclear war
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blanchfield 9 </span></span>
Mike Blanchfield, staff writer, 7-4-2009. [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=]

Still, Blair and many others…. weapons or we're buried by them," Blair said.
[[#_Toc141721869]]
===1NC Security=== 
A. The 1ac is grounded in an orientalist discourse of middle eastern security defined according to U.S. imperial interests. 

Pinar **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bilgin,</span>** @ Bilkent Univ, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘4</span>** [//International Relations// 18.1, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28] 

What I call __<span style="background-color: silver;">the ‘Middle East’ perspective</span>…<span style="background-color: silver;"> treachery and imprisoned</span>__ at worst.

B. Orientalist forms of security guarantee genocidal conflicts -- their perspective consolidates the racist hierarchies responsible for global exploitation. 

Pinar **__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Batur</span>__**, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, **__<span style="background-color: aqua;">‘7 </span>__**[“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7] 

At the turn of the 20th century…. with genocide, in Darfur. 

C. Rejecting their demand for immediate yes/no policy response is the only way to raise critical ethical questions about the discourse and practice of international relations in east Asia 

Shampa **__<span style="background-color: aqua;">BISWAS</span>__** Politics @ Whitman **__<span style="background-color: aqua;">‘7</span>__** “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125

The recent resuscitation of the project…. important senses of the vocation.21

===Iraq and Afghanistan Government Counterplan 1NC- VS HTS=== 

Thus the plan: The Iraqi and Afghani governments will request that the US military leave their respective countries. We’ll clarify.

Net benefit: 
1. We avoid the Security K because this is not the United States acting towards those countries – this is a local concern acting on withdrawal
2. We solve the case better – this prevents any use of the HTS in Iraq or Afghanistan

And, permutations will never solve – this is based off of Afghanistan action towards the US – thereby avoiding the orientalist us-them dichotomies