[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===**ME NWFZ**=== 

Accept debatable aff interpretations
“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”. Timothy M. O’Donnell]. Director of Debate. University of Mary Washington.

There are several ……its chosen starting point.

Observation one is Inherency.
Iran is building the bomb now-several sigs because of their evasiveness.

Kallmeyer September 8th (Kevin Kallmeyer, “Iran: 1 IAEA: 0”, September 8th 2010. Center for Strategic and International Studies. http://csis.org/blog/iran-1-iaea-0.)

First, Iran has failed ……. such activities have occurred.

And, even if they never do get the bomb, their nuclear reactors themselves are already destabilizing the Middle East

MK Dhar. August 31, 2010. “Eagle’s Eye: Iran’s nuclear defiance rattles Arabs.” Central Chronicle. http://www.centralchronicle.com/viewnews.asp?articleID=46079 TJ

The fuelling of its …..formed part of the notorious A. Q. Khan network transfers.

THUS THE PLAN: The countries of the Middle East should sign and establish a Middle Eastern Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. (Countries: Turkey, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, the Gaza Strip, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, West Bank, Iran, Cyprus, and Egypt)

Contention Two is harms. Advantage one is Iran.

A Nuclear Iran will increases state-sponsored nuclear terrorism, ramp up regional proliferation, kill deterrence, and risk nuclear war
Orde Kittrie – ‘09 [ Professor of Law at Arizona State University and former specialist on nuclear non-proliferation for the U.S. State Department ], “New Sanctions for a New Century: Treasury’s Innovative Use of Financial Sanctions,” 30 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 789 (Spring 2009).

Iran's pursuit of nuclear …… technology with others.

And, nuclear terrorism leads to a full blown nuclear war

Patrick Speice 2006 (JD, William and Mary Law Review) "Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs" 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427. TJ

The potential consequences …..of nuclear weapons.


Advantage Two is Israel.

Israel has a massive incentive to attack Iran—a threatened Israel state loses legitimacy and fails to become a safe haven, undermining its very reason for existence. Their nuclear weapons symbolize their ability for national birth and power.

Jeffrey Goldberg. [Jeffrey Goldberg is a national correspondent for The Atlantic. Author of the book //Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror//, he has reported from the Middle East and Africa. He also writes the magazine's advice column.] “The Point of No Return.” The Atlantic Magazine, September 2010. http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186 TJ

Patriotism in Israel …. price of powerlessness.

And, Israel will strike a nuclear Iran in the name of survival. Regardless of whether or not they succeed, the strike will change regional dynamics forever, aggravating conflict which could lead to war and economic chaos. Goldberg 2

It is also possible that ….. into a leper among nations.

And, even if the Israeli strike succeeds, it guarantees that Iran will try to get the nuclear weapon, and causes the Iranian people to unite and support Ahmadinejad

Gideon Levy. April 2, 2010. “The message is clear: Israel must not attack Iran.” Harretz. http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/opinion/the-message-is-clear-israel-must-not-strike-iran-1.265880 TJ

His message was clear …..l know from our own conduct.

Terminal impact: Middle East proliferation and instability leads to escalation and nuclear war

John Steinbach. “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace.” DC Iraq Coalition, March 2002. Center for Research on Globalisation. Globalresearch.ca. http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html TJ

Meanwhile, the existence ….. on as the Sharon era dawns.

Contention Three is Solvency

First, it solves for Iran and Israel—it would solve Iranian security and confidence, and incorporate discourse in Israel about weapon reduction
Greenpeace. “Conditions for a Nuclear Free Middle East.” February 2007. www.gsinstitute.org/mpi/docs/A6F_Vienna_Datan.pdf

In the case of …… necessary and positive step

The NWFZ establishment would increase confidence measures, set a cap on nuclear stocks, and eliminating weapons after normalizing relationships between Israel and its neighbors
Michael Hamel-Green. “Regional Initiatives on Nuclear- and WMD-Free Zone: Cooperative Approaches to Arms Control and Non-proliferation.” United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. 2005. TJ

A number of suggestions for … material breach of obligations.60

And, it would strengthen relationships throughout the Middle East, easing tensions and creating peace increasing economic integration between the countries

Mr. Al-Masaad. [Qatar ambassador] United Nations General Assembly, Fifty-first session. Cifrst Committee, 17th meeting. November 1996. http://unispal.un.org/UNISPAL.NSF/0/D425158763F0900385256DA5007478BB TJ

The State of Qatar, …..mutually and effectively verifiable measures. 

===**NEA NWFZ**=== 

V- Morality
VC- Protecting life

Contention one-- Inherency. Countries are proliferating, but are willing to work together.
Pan **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zhenqiang 09</span>**. [Deputy Chairman, China Foundation for International Sutidies] “Nuclear Weapons in a Changing Security Environment in North East Asia: A background paper for the ICNND.” Beijing, May 12, 2009. TJ

**__"The three nuclear__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.. this worrying trend." </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plan: </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, The Republic of Korea, and Japan should sign and establish a Northeast Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone</span>


Advantage One-->
A nuclear North Korea causes massive arms race in East Asia

Pan **Zhenqiang 2**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"If evolving nuclear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">...possessing nuclear arsenals."</span>


AND, The DPRK threatens to engage in a sacred nuclear war, increasing tensions in Asia. The response from the US and ROK is increased deterrence

**__BBC News__** July 24, **__2010__**. “North Korea warns of nuclear 'sacred war'” [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-10748148]] TJ 
"Thousands of personnel...**whole**," he said"


And, Extended deterrence increases North Korea’s nuclear legitimacy and triggers a Northeast Asian nuclear war

Peter **__Hayes 2009__**. [Prof of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne and Exec Director at Nautilus of America] “Extended Nuclear Deterrence, Global Abolition, and Korea.” The Asia-Pacific Journal, Volume 50 no. 2. December 2009. [[http://japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3268]]

**__"__****Reasserting US nuclear**...with nuclear weapons states.**__"__**



Advantage Two is Japanese Rearmament
**If the United States does not extend nuclear deterrence for South Korea Tokyo would re-arm its weapons.**

<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt;">Scales and Wortzel ’</span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">99</span></span> (Robert, Major Gen. and former Deputy Chief of Staff for Base Operations and former Deputy Chief of Staff for Doctrine at Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command – US Army and PhD in History – Duke, and Larry, Col. – US Army, Dir. Strategic Studies Institute – US Army War College, and PhD in Pol. Sci. – U. Hawaii, “THE FUTURE U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE IN ASIA: LANDPOWER AND THE GEOSTRATEGY OF AMERICAN COMMITMENT”, 4-6, [[https://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB75.pdf]])

<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">"American nuclear deterrence...of improving them</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

Fear of North Korea’s increased posturing and attacks will cause Japan to re-arm by itself

<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Chad </span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt;">Groening 2010, </span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">OneNewsNow, 5-27</span></span>-’10. “Maginnis: Japan may re-arm” **[[http://www.onenewsnow.com/Security/Default.aspx?id=1027284]]** TJ
"
A Pentagon advisor<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">... their national security</span>**</span>."

Japan re-arm causes Asian arms race and proliferation


Richard **Halloran 2009**. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan. Real Clear Politics. May 24, 2009. [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]] TJ 
<span class="CardsFont12pt"> <span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 8pt;">""That</span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 12pt;"> **anxiety has** </span> <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">...threat from Russia</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

Asian arms races escalate to nuclear conflict
[[#_Toc144837747]]

<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">"In addition to</span>** </span>
...major interstate warfare"

Contention Three is Solvency.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An East Asian Nuclear Weapon Free Zone would resolve security issues, and increase cooperation </span>
Scott **__Parrish and__** Jean **__Du Preez 04__**. “Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones: Still a Useful Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Tool?” Center for Nonproliferation Studies. WMD Commission. 2004. <span style="font-family: Tahoma;"><span style="font-style: normal;">[[http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No6-ParrishDuPreez%20Final.pdf|www.wmdcommission.org/files/No6-]]</span>[[http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No6-ParrishDuPreez%20Final.pdf|**ParrishDuPreez**]]<span style="font-style: normal;">[[http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No6-ParrishDuPreez%20Final.pdf|%20Final.pdf]]</span> </span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-style: normal;">TJ</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Nevertheless, although NWFZ...pressing nonproliferation challenges"</span>

A NWFZ between South Korea and Japan would devalue North Korea’s nuclear weapons and reduce its political influence in the region
Peter **__Hayes and__** Michael **__Hamel-Green 09__**. “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia.” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. Presented to the Research Workshop on Austrailia-Japan Civil Society Cooperation for Nuclear Disarmament Nautilus Insittute at RMIT and RMIT University Melbourne, December 2009. [[http://japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]] TJ

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"It is also... instruments of coercion."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NWFZ’s Verification measures solve distrust with binding agreements, spill over to increase prohibition on bio/chemical weapons, and create a new regional security framework that is not dependent on US deterrence </span>

Hiromichi **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Umebayashi 04</span>**. [President of the Peace Depot Japan, and International Coordinator for the Pacific Campaign for Disarmament and Security] “A Northeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (NEA-NWFZ)”. Peace Depot and Pacific Campaign for Disarmament and Security. April 2004. 

"A NEA-NWFZ...regional security framework."

**Lastly, err aff on solvency questions.**

Peter **__Hayes and__** Michael **__Hamel-Green__**. “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia.” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. Presented to the Research Workshop on Austrailia-Japan Civil Society Cooperation for Nuclear Disarmament Nautilus Insittute at RMIT and RMIT University Melbourne, December 20**__09__**. [[http://japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]] TJ

"Regional nuclear weapon...of radioactive contamination."


==Negative== 


===War DA=== 

VC- Preventing nuclear war

Contention One-- Cheating. Countries have a massive incentive to cheat in the disarmament process

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Charles L. Glaser. “The Instability of Small Numbers Revisited: Prospects for Disarmament and Nonproliferation.” Rebuilding the NPT Consensus, 2007. Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University.</span>

"The most obvious... about others' production."

This distrust leads to transition wars

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#htmldiff36]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://ieet.org/index.php/IEET/more/2985/]]</span>

"Should the nuclear... deliberate nuclear war."

Contention Two is rearmament. An arms race will occur again, increasing risks of nuclear war

Glaser 2

"Second, arm races... critical nuclear advantage."
=== === 
===Chemical and Biological war NC=== 

A-Curbing nuclear prolif causes a shift to bioweapons.
Zilinskas, 2000 [Raymond A., Former Clinical Microbiologist and Dir. – Chemical and Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program – Center for Nonproliferation Studies of Monterey Institute of International Studies, in “Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense,” Ed. Raymond A. Zilinskas, p. 1-2, Google Print]

“It is an odd…cadavers into citadels”

B-Nuclear Weapons are Essential in deterring WMD attacks- prevented Iraqi biological weapon use.
Why We Must Sustain Nuclear Deterrence Dr. Keith B. Payne President, National Institute for Public Policy Faculty, Georgetown University School of Foreign Service National Security Studies Program A version of this article entitled, "Nuclear Deterrence Provides U.S. Irreplaceable Option" appeared in Defense News (www.defensenews.com), April 13- 19, 1998, p. 21. http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Archives/Publication%20Archive%20PDF/Op%20Ed%203_20_98.pdf

“The evidence that …and too high."

C is the impact:
Risk of Biological weapon use outweighs nuclear weapons use- biological weapons can not be controlled
Steinbruner, Senior Fellow at Brookings Institute 1997 [John, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague upon All Houses”, Foreign Policy, Winter 1997-1998, p. 85-96, JSTOR]
“Ultimately the world…its outer limit.”
===Implementation DA=== 

A: it’s topical for states to launch all their nukes at each other—he defends implementation
B: leads to nuke war. Also, violates side constraints

===Orion CP=== 


Observation one is the text: [] should phase out their nuclear weapons by converting them to nuclear propulsion devices under the guidelines of Project Orion.



We need nuclear weapons for space exploration – it’s called project Orion. Schweitzer 09 explains the program:
Curtis Schweitzer. 04/27/09. Resurrecting Orion. Curtis Schweitzer is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546

But one group of …. makers envisioned for it.

AND Nuclear propulsion is a form of global disarmament and proliferation. Schweitzer 09:
Curtis Schweitzer. 04/27/09. Resurrecting Orion. Curtis Schweitzer is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546

Developing nuclear-pulse …. can be significantly mitigated.


Observation three is competition: the counterplan is competitive via

1. Net benefits: the negative will prove that the counterplan alone is preferable over any permutation of the affirmative and negative.

2. Mutually exclusive: it is literally impossible to both phase out nuclear weapons via deconstruction and eliminate them by turning them into nuclear propulsion devices. Thus all perms on the counterplan would have to be intrinsic or severance. The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the AC.




The net benefit is Space Exploration:

A. Uniqueness and Link:

Propulsion technology is critical for deep space exploration – solve back all the status quo problems. Schweitzer 09:
Curtis Schweitzer. 04/27/09. Resurrecting Orion. Curtis Schweitzer is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546

Most modern space-born missions ….. well within reach during our lifetime.

AND Orion is an efficient tool that will revolutionize space technology and give us a chance to recreate the world’s worst weapon into its’ greatest innovation. Schweitzer 09:
Curtis Schweitzer. 04/27/09. Resurrecting Orion. Curtis Schweitzer is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546

Orion promises us …..technology for a peaceful and scientific end.




B. Impact:

Propulsion key to paradigm shift towards space exploration. Lenard 01:
Roger X. Lenard. Societal imperatives and the need for space nuclear power and propulsion systems. Space Policy 17 (2001) 285–289

Advanced propulsion and ….. in paradigm shifts in normal science__.__



===Terror Talk K=== 
__<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">1) Link -- The War on Terror otherizes the enemy to the point of total dehumanization. </span></span></span>__
__<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Macleod 2010</span></span> (Ryannon, IR major @ Memorial U of Newfoundland, e-IR, publisher of IR lit., 5/3/10, http://www.e-ir.info/?p=4017) JPG</span>__

__<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"While little to</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">..totalitarianism and Nazism” </span></span></span>__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2</span>) Impact -- Terrorist rhetoric will instead generate more terrorism. </span>__
__<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapitan and Schulte 2</span></span> (Tomis and Erich, Thomas – Prof of Philosophy @ N Illionois U, and Erich – , Journal of Political and Military Sociology Vol. 30 Iss. 1, 2002, pp. 172+, Questia) JPG__

__The <span class="underline">'terrorist' rhetoric...</span>for these points.__

__<span class="cite">3) Alternative -- Reject the affirmatives construction of terrorism – recognizing that terrorism is not an objective reality sheds its violent representations </span>__
__<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whitbeck 2</span></span> (John V., int’l lawyer dealing w/ Israeli-Palestinian conflict, The Washignton Report on Midde East affairs Vol. 21 Iss. 2, March 2002, pp. 52+, questia) JPG__

__"A devalued World... places to live."__


===Accidents K=== 
__Links__
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">1. In an effort to evade the finger pointing to their Frankenstein monster, the affirmative uses the rhetoric of “accidents” to conceal their own association and deployment of nuclear weapons</span></span>__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">William Chaloupka. “Knowing Nukes: The Politics and Culture of the Atom.” University of Minnesota Press. 1992. </span></span>__

__"This absurd outcome... ambivalence of accidents."__

__2. The “accident” takes events outside of rational thinking and defense, ignoring that nothing is absolute and unfailing. Chaloupka 2__


__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">William Chaloupka. “Knowing Nukes: The Politics and Culture of the Atom.” University of Minnesota Press. 1992. </span></span>__

__"To demarcate something... will break down."__

__Impacts__

__1. Turns case-- they construct the accident.__
__Chaloupka 3__

__"Danger, of itself... for fateful decisions."__

__2.__
__Increases militarism. Removing our responsibilities for nuclear weapons makes arms control into a slick PR tool the state uses to justify and hide bombing and militarism in Third World countries__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Schwartz and Derber 93</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> -- William A. Schwartz, a professor of property law at Yeshiva University's Cardozo School of Law, and Charles Derber, Professor of Sociology at Boston College, THE NUCLEAR SEDUCTION: WHY THE ARMS RACE DOESN’T MATTER- AND WHAT DOES, University of California Press, 1993. </span>__

__"For the government... war and peace."__

__Alt__

__Reject the affirmative. Questioning the symbols and metaphors of nuclear weapons discourse opens space for counter-proposals.__


__"The postmodern analysis... of the puzzle."__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rhetorical analysis is a necessary precursor to policy making</span></span>__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dauber 01</span></span>( Cori Elizabeth, Associate professor of communications at the university of North Caroline Chapel Hill, “the shot seen round the world: the impact of the images of Mogadishu on american military operations”; http://muse.uq.edu.au.ts.isil.westga.edu/journals/rhetoric_and_public_affairs/v004/4.4dauber.html)__

__"The impact the... should do so."__


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
== == 
==<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Pregnant Women Affirmative</span>== 

__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Framework for the Debate – Parametrics are best for the debate process </span>__

__Four Reasons__
__Entire Rez is bad__
__Education and Fairness improved__
__Negative strategy Ground improved__
__Negative research ground improved__

__The value is Morality. The standard is promoting the general welfare of the public for three reasons.__


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1. Basic safety </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A. H. Maslow. “A theory of human motivation.” Brooklyn College. Twentieth century psychology: recent developments in psychology <span class="addmd">By Philip Lawrence Harriman. 1970.</span></span>

= = 
If __<span style="font-weight: normal;">the </span>__physiological needs ………__<span style="font-weight: normal;">as living almost for safety alone. </span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

__2. Role-playing__
__Christopher <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Joyner</span></span> 19<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">99 </span></span>(Prof of I Law @ Georgetown) “Teaching International Law” 5 ILSA J. Int'l & Comp. Law 377 pg. LN, pwneill/__

__<span style="margin-top: 6pt;">Use of the </span>__**debate** **can …….**
**world of policy analysis,** __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">political critique, and legal defense. </span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
__<span style="line-height: 150%;">Hasnas writes: </span>__
__<span style="line-height: 150%; margin: 0.1pt 0in; text-align: justify;">The individual rights that our …….</span>__upon a person's moral intuitions__.__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__practicing realworld decision__ </span>

__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">/L. Paul <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Strait and</span> Brett <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wallace</span>, Coaches @ George Mason and GW, “The Scope of Negative Fiat and the Logic of Decision Making”, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">07</span> [[http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/2007/The_Scope_of_Negative_Fiat_and_the_Logic_of_Decision_Making.pdf]],</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why debate? Some do …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that argumentative thinking has value.</span>__

__4. Metaethics resolves conflicts Morality must be based in physical facts rather than a priori reasoning__
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herschel 03</span></span> (Elliot, Herschel (philosophy professor @ University of Florida). “The Revolutionary Import of Garrett Hardin’s Work,” The Garrett Harden Society (July 2003), http://www.garretthardinsociety.org/tributes/tr_elliot_2003jul.html__

__The fact that a tragedy ….<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="font-weight: normal;">or denies their proposals.</span></span>__

__Consequentialism is the only ethical system__

__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levy 08</span></span> (Neil Levy, philosophy professor at Oxford, “Introducing Neuroethics,” Neuroethics 1.1 (2008),__

__<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Greene</span></span> et al. [10] scanned …… <span class="UnderlineBold">discounting deontological intuitions,</span>__ **in favor of a thoroughgoing consequentialism.**

__Plan Text: The United States Federal Government should replace the criminal prosecution of pregnant substance abusers with increased funding to treatment centers and health education focused on prevention of drug abuse. I reserve the right to clarify.__

__**Advantage One is Health**__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The status-quo paradigm fails—fear of punishment prevents women from getting prenatal care and addiction treatment </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lynn M. Paltrow. “Punishing Women for Their Behavior During Pregnancy: An Approach that Undermines the Health of Women and Children.” New York: Center for Reproductive Law & Policy; 1996. TJ </span>

__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Leading public health organizations, ……. both the woman and her newborn.6 </span>__

__**Public health approaches are effective and efficient at solving these problems**__

__David C. Brody and Heidee McMillin. [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice @Wash U, and Doctoral student, dept of Political Science, Wash U] “COMBATING FETAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND GOVERNMENTAL FOOLHARDINESS THROUGH COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND COMMON SENSE: HELPING WOMEN HELP THEMSELVES.” Hastings Women's Law Journal 2001. 12 Hastings Women's L.J. 243__

__A. The prosecution and civil commitment of addicted pregnant women …….__**knowledge within her in case she should later find herself in a position to use it.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Advantage Two is Privacy </span>

__<span style="font-weight: normal;">P</span>rosecution of women coerces women’s autonomy and privacy in pregnancies—Paltrow 2__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lynn M. Paltrow. “Punishing Women for Their Behavior During Pregnancy: An Approach that Undermines the Health of Women and Children.” New York: Center for Reproductive Law & Policy; 1996. TJ </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">P</span></span>
rosecutions of women ….,.drug treatment centers for pregnant women__<span style="font-weight: normal;">.”29</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

__Coercive force always fails and results in the worst dictatorships of history, like Hitler and Stalin__
__Tibor R. **Machan**, Research Fellow @ Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus in the Department of Philosophy at Auburn University, January 28, **2004**, Lewrockwell.com, “Freedom and Its Supposed Liabilities,” http://www.lewrockwell.com/machan/machan25.html__
__The second thing is that__ **………what these bad choices prod**uce__,__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
__1. Any coercion brings us one step closer to the genocidal nightmares of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union__
__**Browne**, former Libertarian presidential candidate, **1995**__
__(Harry, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, //Why Government Doesn’t Work//, pg 66-67)__
**The reformers of the Cambodian ……..** __government programs that came before.__



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
__Advantage three is patriarchy__

__Criminal persecution in the status-quo ignores that drug abuse by women precipitates from domestic physical and sexual violence from males. This exemplifies the mentality of ‘blaming the victim’, and a demonstration of patriarchic structures in society__

__David C. Brody and Heidee McMillin. [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice @Wash U, and Doctoral student, dept of Political Science, Wash U] “COMBATING FETAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND GOVERNMENTAL FOOLHARDINESS THROUGH COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND COMMON SENSE: HELPING WOMEN HELP THEMSELVES.” Hastings Women's Law Journal 2001. 12 Hastings Women's L.J. 243__
__<span style="margin-top: 6pt; text-indent: 0.25in;">n85 Research has shown that most </span>__**women who abuse <span style="color: #cc0033;">drugs</span>** __and ……__ **number of violent assaults she has sustained.** __n100__


__**The ultimate impact is extinction – the dysfunctionality of patriarchy guarantees continued violence, war, and environmental destruction.**__
__**Warren and Cady,** Professors of Philosophy at Macalester College & Hamline University, **1994**__
__(Karen and Duane, Hypatia, Spring, Proquest)__

__<span style="text-align: justify;">In addition, the claim that patriarchy is a dysfunctional ….. </span>__**which is manifested in behaviors which, if continued, will** **make life on earth difficult, if not impossible**. 

__<span style="text-align: justify;">We need a special treatment model for these women outside of the law, which just worsens the problem </span>__
__David C. Brody and Heidee McMillin. [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice @Wash U, and Doctoral student, dept of Political Science, Wash U] “COMBATING FETAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND GOVERNMENTAL FOOLHARDINESS THROUGH COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND COMMON SENSE: HELPING WOMEN HELP THEMSELVES.” Hastings Women's Law Journal 2001. 12 Hastings Women's L.J. 243__

**Traditional, male treatment models**__, …….__ **pregnant substance abusers require special treatment.__** n123 

Current laws deter women from getting prenatal care—treatment is good 

David C. Brody and Heidee McMillin. [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice @Wash U, and Doctoral student, dept of Political Science, Wash U] “COMBATING FETAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND GOVERNMENTAL FOOLHARDINESS THROUGH COLLABORATIVE LINKAGES, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND COMMON SENSE: HELPING WOMEN HELP THEMSELVES.” Hastings Women's Law Journal 2001. 12 Hastings Women's L.J. 243 

<span style="margin-top: 6pt; text-indent: 0.25in;">Primary care physicians generally …… fetal harms caused by **<span style="color: #cc0033;">drugs</span>** and alcohol. </span>




==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]