[[toc]]
=Aff Stuff= 
==1AC - TOC Round 1== 
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to levels consistent with a counterterrorism strategy

===1AC Stability=== 
Contention 1: Stability
COIN fails – Petraeus leaving derails mission
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ryan 4/27</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Missy, 2011, “Analysis: U.S. shuffle complicates push for Afghan results”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/04/27/us-usa-afghanistan-analysis-idUSTRE73Q8I820110427]]) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">A U.S. plan to pull </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">General</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">have a major change in command."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN fails – prefer statistics to military propaganda – and all gains are tactical not strategic </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?page=0,1) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the past two weeks, … assessments of military progress. </span>

COIN fails – mission creep, corruption and ANA – CT is key to stability and local security regime
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Etzioni 11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amitai, University professor and professor of international relations at George Washington University, director of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies, and the author of Security First: For a Muscular, Moral Foreign Policy, Spring, “Mission Creep and Its Discontents The Afghanistan Conflict”, Middle East Quarterly, VOLUME XVIII: NUMBER 2, [[http://www.meforum.org/2879/afghanistan-mission-creep]]) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Washington's persistent difficulties … coalitions, treaties, and agreements</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Now is the key time – counterterrorism is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It follows that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the most … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> them for that purpose. </span>


US presence creates more instability and violence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">within the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Taliban. </span>

Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suhrke 10</span></span> (Astri Suhrke, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March 2010, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has … way developments were going. </span>

This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 9</span></span> (Max Fisher, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has …. foreseeable exit strategy. </span>

Nuclear war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen John, former National Executive Officer of the British Labour Party, his responsibilities included international relations, ethnic minority work, women’s issues, finance, local government and organization, he specialised particularly in international crisis situations spending long periods working in Belfast, in efforts to overcome sectarian strife and terrorism, former Director of WIC, a research and publishing company based in London, he went to live in Budapest during the Gorbachov period from where he helped build opposition groups in the underground in Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Germany, Stephen left active politics in the early 1990 and came to live in Brussels, where he established and managed his own publishing company, has lived and worked in more than 27 different countries, including underground political work during the troubles in in Northern Ireland and war in Yugoslavia, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although disliked and .. than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span>

That draws in Russia
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goble 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, [[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]]) </span>

<span class="underline0">Because NATO has … **drawn in** </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">as well.</span>

Nuclear war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shorr 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ira, Analyst, Institute for Policy Studies, Washington D.C., “Greatest Peril is Still Nuclear,” THE RECORD (BERGEN COUNTY, NJ), October 14, 2001, LN) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While these actions … use of nuclear weapons. </span>

No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt 12/29</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University., 2010, “Helping our enemies work together”, [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/12/29/helping_our_enemies_work_together]]) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The news that various … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">reason to work together? </span>

===1AC Terrorism=== 
Contention 2: Al Qaeda

They are actively seeking nuclear weapons for use.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smyser 1/26</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jennifer, program officer in Policy and Outreach at the Stanley Foundation where she is responsible for the foundation’s nuclear security programming. She serves on the steering committee of the Fissile Materials Working Group and coordinates the foundation’s programming efforts focused on US leadership and robust implementation of international agreements that lead to all global supplies of nuclear material being secured and, where possible, eliminated. Smyser is also responsible for the foundation’s outreach to citizen groups and leaders across all programming areas., 2011, “A Radioactive Challenge: Preventing Nuclear Terrorism”, http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?ID=667) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Nuclear terrorism. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> direct economic damage</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>

Material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hall 10</span></span> (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Obama said "</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the … terrorist attack" by 2013. </span>

Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arkedis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As deliberations about … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">space it can access.</span>

Terrorism causes retaliation that escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions, InformaWorld) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But these two nuclear worlds … unwilling to provide. </span>

Al Qaeda represents an existential threat
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gorka 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 | Suo) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost immediately </span><span class="UnderlineChar">after 9/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">will not be achievable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

US presence strengthens al Qaeda – increases resentment and recruiting
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clemons et al. 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In short, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a complete</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and unlikely) </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> … inspired by similar motivations. </span>

Withdrawal means the Taliban ends al-Qaeda’s safe haven.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atran 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Scott, an anthropologist at France’s National Center for Scientific Research, the University of Michigan and John Jay College, 10/27, “Turning the Taliban Against Al Qaeda,” [[http://www.almendron.com/tribuna/31827/turning-the-taliban-against-al-qaeda/]]) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">So why hold talks … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be able to control. </span>

Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective CT – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span> (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Another set of … essential counterterrorism goals.</span>

===1AC Non-Polarity=== 
Contention 3: Non-Polarity
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US material decline is inevitable – and power is decoupling from influence </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haass 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, April 16, 2008,”The Age of Nonpolarity”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/04/the_age_of_nonpolarity.html) </span>

**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">In this world, … </span>__**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">proliferation of weaponry. </span>__

But, withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture legitimacy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Afghanistan is becoming a … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">has presumably considered and rejected.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span>__** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

__<span style="text-underline: thick;">A final major gain … of international security</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>57

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, a shift in away from counterinsurgency reasserts US institutional principles – that’s comparatively more important to heg </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Polk 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William Polk, the member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history, 11-23-09, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html | Suo) </span>

__<span style="text-underline: thick;">We are indeed at a … **“a city on the hill.”** </span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span>__** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)
**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">I see a multi-polar world … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">predominance in world affairs.” 60 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mendelsohn 10</span>__** (Barak Mendelsohn is an assistant professor of political science at Haverford College and a senior fellow of FPRI. Author of Combating Jihadism: American Hegemony and Interstate Cooperation in the War on Terrorism, June 2010, “The Question of International Cooperation in the War on Terrorism”, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going against common uninhibited exercise of power. </span>

Continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former national security … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">than would withdrawal.</span>



==1AC Non Polarity Adv - BF== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This advantage replaces heg</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US material decline is inevitable – and power is decoupling from influence</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Haass 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Haass, president of … /articles/2008/04/the_age_of_nonpolarity.html)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__In this world, <span style="background-color: yellow;">the United … </span>__**__is the proliferation of weaponry.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But, withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture legitimacy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor … _week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">has presumably considered and rejected.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, a shift in away from counterinsurgency reasserts US institutional principles – that’s comparatively more important to heg</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Polk 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William Polk, the member … ”, http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html | Suo)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__We are indeed at a cross-… **peoples “a city on the hill.”**__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span>__** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department … .wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">I see a multi-polar world</span> …__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">American predominance in world affairs.” 60</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Mendelsohn 10</span>__** (Barak Mendelsohn is an … .org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Going against common conceptions, I argue … the uninhibited exercise of power.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span>__** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department … .wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__A final major gain to … a broad measure of international security__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>57</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, … -strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former national security adviser Henry … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">undermine U.S. security than</span> would <span style="background-color: yellow;">withdrawal</span>.</span></span>

==1AC - Michigan== 
**The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to levels consistent with a counterterrorism strategy.**

===Inherency:=== 
**Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a minimalist approach is sufficient to contain al Qaeda and prevent a Taliban takeover**

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span> (Rick "Ozzie" Nelson, Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, 2009, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A1: Probably not. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span>approach would entail.

The Taliban are flexible – concepts like momentum don’t exist and their political calculus precludes negotiations
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor 10/28</span></span>(Global intelligence company, October 28, 2010, “Notions of Progress and Negotiation in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.stratfor.com/node/174702/geopolitical_diary/20101027_notions_progress_and_negotiation_afghanistan]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a report </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span>that latter possibility.


COIN is unsustainable – prefer statistical metrics to military propaganda
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 10/29 </span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">(Michael A. Cohen, senior fellow at the American Security Project and writes about Afghanistan at democracyarsenal.org. OCTOBER 29, 2010, “Petraeus Versus Obama”,</span>
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there are <span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span></span>to be ephemeral.


Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delaying the transition risks precipitous withdrawal
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9 </span></span><span style="font-size: 11px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It follows that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the most <span style="text-decoration: none;">… </span></span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">them for that purpose.</span>


===Contention 1: Stability=== 
**More specifically, counterinsurgency doctrine is inherently hostile to local authority structures**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 9</span></span> (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, 2009, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ )
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Yaroslav </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Trofimov’s article</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in … but it’s a possibility worth considering.</span>

**And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">within the operational … </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">- over the next few years. </span>

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suhrke 10</span></span> (Astri Suhrke, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March 2010, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has had … the way developments were going. </span>

**This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 9</span></span> (Max Fisher, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/ )
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has made … a foreseeable exit strategy. </span>


**Inevitable destabilization that results from an imposed central government leads to the violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although disliked and despised … an Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span>

**Uncertain nuclear guarantees and great power interests mean that Central Asia escalation is uniquely likely**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2k</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar">many structural conditions … capable of settling the situation</span><span class="UnreadTextChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.5pt;">.(77)</span></span>

===**Contention 2: Al Qaeda**=== 
**Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use – nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Evans 10</span></span> (Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece )
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Terrorists including </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">al-Qaeda</span> pose ... <span style="background-color: yellow;">briefcase bombs are available</span>."</span>


**That is the single greatest threat to global security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hall 10</span></span> (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm )
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Obama said "</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the single … <span style="background-color: yellow;">used in a </span>terrorist <span style="background-color: yellow;">attack" by 2013</span>. </span>

**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack – //there can only be one//**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arkedis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As deliberations about the … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">physical space it can access.</span></span>

**A nuclear strike by al Qaeda causes US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span></span> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea <span style="color: black;">Futures</span>, <span style="color: black;">Volume 41, Issue 10</span>, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">reckless use of strategic weapons</span>

**Al Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gorka 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost immediately </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">after 9/11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … and Pakistan </span><span class="UnderlineChar">will not be achievable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**US presence strengthens al Qaeda – it drives militant groups to ally with it and increases recruiting**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clemons et al. 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In short, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a complete</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">been inspired by similar motivations.</span>

**A targeted counterterrorism force posture is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent the recreation of al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cortright 9</span></span> (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 )
<span class="UnderlineChar">This analysis suggests the … effectively and with greater justice.</span>


**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span> (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 )
<span class="UnderlineChar">Another set of offsetting … achieve its essential counterterrorism goals.</span>

===Contention 3: Hegemony=== 
**US global leadership is on the brink, and a counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan risks the devastation of hegemony – however a counterterrorism mission would maintain US hard power**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Over the winter break I … (China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span>

**US leadership prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – prefer it to all other alternatives**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="color: black;">Robert 7, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, there is the United States … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: aqua;"> will provide an easier path</span>. </span>

**Independently, counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan devastates troop morale and readiness – that collapses hegemony**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pyne 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David T. Pyne, Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America, 2009/11/07, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Iraq and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Bush … US-ally </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Georgia</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span>

**And, continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan tanks our international credibility – makes leadership impossible**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former national security adviser Henry … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;"> U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span> </span>

**Certainty of withdrawal is key – it shores up international credibility and boosts political support**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schlesinger 10</span></span> (Stephen Schlesinger, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City. He is the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, [[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]])
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">The deadline is</span> also <span style="background-color: yellow;">a …</span> </span><span class="UnderlineChar">surge must be the last. </span>

**Independently, the US military is dangerously overstretched due to the surge strategy in Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Mulrine 9</span></span> (Anna Mulrine, staff writer for US News & World Report, January 16, 2009, “Obama to Confront Limits of America's Overstretched Military”, http://politics.usnews.com/news/world/articles/2009/01/16/obama-to-confront-limits-of-americas-overstretched-military_print.html )
<span class="UnderlineChar">With</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> progress in Iraq still … 2008 had high school diplomas.</span>

==K - 1ac== 
**The United States federal government should end its occupation of Afghanistan.**

===Contention 1: Stability=== 
**The US won’t withdraw from Afghanistan – the upcoming deadlines will only increase troops**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klein 6/24</span></span> (Joe Klein, staff … )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the policy featured … on anything until July 2011."</span>

**We control uniqueness – violence and Taliban forces increasing by every metric – prefer recency**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nordland 9/11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rod, Chief Foreign … , AV) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">KABUL, Afghanistan — </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Even as … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">at any time since 2001</span>. </span>

**COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span></span> (Christopher A. Preble, Director … /pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question is … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">elsewhere in the world</span>.</span>

**More specifically, COIN is inherently hostile to local authority structures**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Benjamin H. Friedman, research … /2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Yaroslav </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Trofimov’s article</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in … it’s a possibility worth considering. </span>

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suhrke 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has … developments were going. </span>

**This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… foreseeable exit strategy. </span>


**The plan solves. Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the Afghanistan war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives.**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Crowe ‘7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The historical production </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… who is being disappeared? </span>


**Full political engagement that challenges the imperialist violence of Afghanistan is necessary. Praxis combined with language changes is important for enriching public deliberation and breaking down the hegemony of imperialist violence in the public sphere.**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Cloud ‘4</span> (Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Scholars should understand the </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;"> solidarity, and peace</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">only policy alternatives create change in Afghanistan </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lorelei, Washington D.C.-based national security expert and director of the New Strategic Security Initiative, Afghanistan: Should We Stay or Should we go?”, Foreign Policy in Focus, 4/14, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/afghanistan_should_we_stay_or_should_we_go</span>) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What I keep saying to … i</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">nstitution is the military</span>.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public debate in Afghanistan is good - </span>**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Wright 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Glenn, Political Buzz Examiner, 7/29, “Failure of the 'public debate' on Afghanistan”, [[http://www.examiner.com/x-58643-Political-Buzz-Examiner%7Ey2010m7d29-Failure-of-the-Public-Debate-on-Afghanistan|http://www.examiner.com/x-58643-Political-Buzz-Examiner~y2010m7d29-Failure-of-the-Public-Debate-on-Afghanistan]]) </span>
__When the WikiLeaks__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … t</span>__he nation do about it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span>


===Contention 2: Urbanism=== 
**Current imperial violence functions by obscuring the ways in which our cities are targets. We have to collapse the analytic distinction to resist**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GRAHAM6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The purpose of this … ‘private military corporations’ (Harvey, 2003; Chatterjee, 2004; Boal //et al.// , 2005). </span>


**Domestic urbicide spills over to global urbicide – the same ideology of subconscious racial fear propels both**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GRAHAM 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the contemporary period, … territories every bit as foreign as Baghdad or Gaza. </span>


**We have to connect our foreign policymaking to the struggle at home. Beacon disconnects these struggles – what they dismiss as a DISTRACTION is instead a CORE LINKAGE between SITES OF RESISTANCE**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GRAHAM 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The power of the new … lock-down democratic politics (Zimmermann, 2007). </span>

**Critical urban geography has to UNITE struggles – violence against urban spaces is a unified front that collapses their home and abroad distinction**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GRAHAM 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here the latest </span>__debates__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">extra-legal torture camps</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and gulags </span>

**This is particularly true in the context of the war on terrorism**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GRAHAM 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">In rendering all</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … contemporary French Republic.5 </span>

==2AC v Beacon - Scranton RR== 
===Framework=== 

**Only a risk the permutation solves better Hip-hop alone is commodified – even dead prez softened their message to maintain a mainstream audience**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Jennings 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom, Inventor of FidoNet, guerilla ISP wholesaler, and all - around homo punk activist, 3/2007,” Hip Hop Is Dead – review”, Freedom, Vol. 68, No. 5, [[http://libcom.org/library/i-hip-hop-dead-i-nas-music-review-tom-jennings]]) … </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The pivotal ‘Black Republican’ …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> with pieces of silver.</span>

**Though the genre still exists Hip-hop’s cultural significance has vanished**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Ali 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Aisha Ali, DC Youth Issues Examiner, Hip-hop meets its ultimate fate: the fall to capitalism, May 4th, 2009, “Hip-hop meets its ultimate fate: Hip-hop surrenders to capitalism (dollar dollar bill, ya'll)”, http://www.examiner.com/dc-in-washington-dc/hip-hop-meets-its-ultimate-fate-hip-hop-surrenders-to-capitalism-dollar-dollar-bill-ya-ll’] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consumers have changed, … skillful, masterful delivery. </span>

**Hip hop is distorted by whiteness—any organic intellectualism is distorted by market publicity**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Danton 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Eric R. Danton, The Hartford (Conn.) Courant, August 20, 2007, “For rap stars, business is overtaking music”, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/musicnightlife/2003841721_rapbiz20.html </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Teens and college-age … McLaren mostly just schemed. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hip hop alone fails – only combining it with concrete political action solves </span>**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Bynoe 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yvonne, co-founder and the former president of the Urban Think Tank Institute, a nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization dedicated to educating and engaging young adults about the issues that affect them as a means to facilitate new political leadership. As a law student, Bynoe published Full Disclosure: The Business of Hip Hop, “HIP-HOP POLITICS: DECONSTRUCTING THE MYTH”, April 2008 (Last Date Modified), [[http://www.funk-the-system.net/hiphopolitics.html]], AV) </span>
__The cult of celebrity__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">actually build the edifice</span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Judging performance backfires. It presumes a counterproductive juridical model of power </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Butler 95</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Judith Butler, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, UC Berkeley, Performativity and Performance, Ed. Parker and Sedgwick, 1995, p. 204) </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">That words wound </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… itself is generative</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Performative pedagogy fails. It works no better than chance. </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Pendlebury 5</span>__** (Shirley Pendlebury, Professor of Education, head, Division of Curriculum, University of the Witwatersrand, in The Routledge Falmer Reader in Philosophy of Education, Wilfred Carr, 2005, p. 57)
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Performative pedagogy</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> calls on … ends of her practice (cf Pendlebury 1995). </span>

**If their arguments about privileged identities shaping the law is true that is precisely WHY the law is an important site of contestation to challenge oppression – the alternative can never solve – only the permutation has a chance of making itself socially relevant by making use of the technical policy perspective currently dominated by Eurocentric elites**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">**Themba-Nixon 2k**</span>, Executive Director of The Praxis Project, a nonprofit organization helping communities use media and policy advocacy Makani, July 31, Colorlines, Changing the Rules: What Public Policy Means for Organizing, Vol 3.2)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “This is all about policy," a woman … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">is just one tool in our box</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Aporia Perm=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Re-conceptualizing order (in a debate round) through a return to justice establishes a horizon, in terms of justice. This means orienting ourselves constantly toward an ethical horizon that is projected only through the way we comport ourselves politically. The perm solves Justice demands that we take conflicting actions, it is a concept independent of law or order - constantly morphing and evolving. We must always conduct ourselves in a way that maximizes justice.</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Menke 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cristoph Menke, Professor of Philosophy and Co-Director of the Centre for Human Rights at Potsdam University, 2005 [27 Cardozo L. Rev. 595) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">According to their first reading, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: lime;"> like all normative acts, is exposed</span>__**<span style="color: black;">. </span>**


===Whiteness:=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whiteness as a race is inevitable, but just trying to reject whiteness would be itself a racist move, and worse, it leaves the definition of whiteness up to white supremacists. We should use whiteness as a means to an end that does not tolerate racism. The permutation becomes a way to embrace our advocacy and theirs </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Sullivan 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Shannon Sullivan.Penn State University Charles S. Peirce Society. Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society. Buffalo: 2008. Vol. 44, Iss. 2; pg. 236, 27 pgs) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is commonly acknowledged … </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">be effective in practice.</span>__**


===Cede the political Perm=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Combination of concrete policy like the plan as a means of implementing their abstraction is necessary for any alternative solvency. Unless they find a way to make their criticism within a pragmatic implementation, it loses its emancipatory potential </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Gunning 7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Government and Opposition Volume 42 Issue 3, Pages 363 - 393 Published Online: 21 Jun 2007 A Case for Critical Terrorism Studies?1 Jeroen Gunning.) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__The notion of emancipation__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… betraying its 'critical' commitment. </span></span>

==2AC Khorasan PIC== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doublebind either </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) The neg tries to define the Greater Khorasan which is is more than Afghanistan - justifies perm do the cp </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">World Lingo 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Greater Khorasan”, http://www.worldlingo.com/ma/enwiki/en/Greater_Khorasan#cite_note-5) </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Greater Khorasan</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Persian: </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">خراسان بزرگ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) (also written …</span>__<span style="background-color: lime;"> Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. </span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OR B) The CP goes to the Khorasan province in Iran – doesn’t solve case </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">World Lingo 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Greater Khorasan”, http://www.worldlingo.com/ma/enwiki/en/Greater_Khorasan#cite_note-5) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Greater Khorasan contained … cultural capital of Persia. (Lorentz 1995) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C) We have maps to prove – </span>**
Names of territories during the Caliphate, Khorasan was part of Persia (in yellow).
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Khorasan </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Using Khorasan increases terrorism – the name used as a jihadist rallying point for al-Qaeda </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Cameron 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, former Senior Analyst with The Arlington Instituteand Principal Researcher with the Center for Millennial Studies at Boston University. He specializes in forensic theology, with a deep interest in millennial, eschatological and apocalyptic religious sects of all stripes., 1/19, “Khorasan: A Muslim Once and Future Kingdom”, http://zenpundit.com/?p=3311) </span>
__What is the significance … End of Days__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Creation of Khorasan causes Indo-Pak War </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Puri 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rajinder, Veteran Columnist and Political Activist, 8/4, “Kayani, Khorasan and Kashmir”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cms.boloji.com/index.cfm?md=Content&sd=Articles&ArticleID=6705]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Army Chief General </span>__Kayani .,.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> General Kayani's endeavors. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Fai 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The foreign policy … Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if our epistemology isn’t perfect its preferable to take action - the alt is policy paralysis </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Owen 2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton,Millennium Vol 31 No 3 p. 655-7) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the … </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">vicious circle arises</span>.__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Tuathail, 96</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct) </span>
__While theoretical debates …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is human history. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A focus on representations destroys social change by ignoring political and material constraints </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Taft-Kaufman 95</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jill, professor, Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts, at Central Michigan University, Southern Communication Journal, Spring, proquest) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The postmodern passwords … budgets that fuel them. </span>


==2AC Signing Statements CP== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Substantially means an essential part of US commitment – means we do optimal means – not full legal means. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 64</span>__** p. 818.
“__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Substantially” means in substance</span>__; in the main; essentially; __<span style="background-color: yellow;">by including the </span>material or <span style="background-color: yellow;">essential part</span>__.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The president has control over withdrawals of troops – the CP wrecks SOP </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yoo 1NC Author 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John C, THE PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST TERRORISTS AND NATIONS SUPPORTING THEM Deputy Assistant Attorney General Office of Legal Counsel, http://www.justice.gov/olc/warpowers925.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fourth, </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">depriving the </span>__**__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> **affairs ever since**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prez power solves every impact </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">South China Morning Post 2K</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Position of Weakness” 12-11-00, p. L/N]</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A weak president</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span> __deftly and decisively__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==2AC NATO Cohesion DA== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**All major allies are planning a withdrawal – we must realign our strategy now.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sarro 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Doug, Int'l Relations and Peace and Conflict Studies @ U of Toronto, 6/23/10, “Five Reasons to Withdraw From Afghanistan Sooner Rather Than Later,” Huffington Post, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-sarro/five-reasons-to-withdraw_b_621903.html]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. The rest of </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">NATO ...</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finish withdrawing soon after.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Draw down key to Cohesion**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrew – professor of history and international relations @ Boston University, “Let Europe be Europe: Why the United States must withdraw from NATO”, March/April, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/let_europe_be_europe?page=0,1]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the course ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> its own affairs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**NATO resilient**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brunnstrom 11/15</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Reuters, 2010, “NATO to stress global role despite Afghan bruising”, http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20101115/wl_nm/us_nato_summit_future)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Analysts say the Afghan... </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">involved irregular forces.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Afghan stability solves NATO credibility**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khan 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amina Khan, Research Fellow at the Institute of Strategic Studies, 2009, "PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA’S POLICY ON AFGHANISTAN”, http://www.issi.org.pk/photos/PRESIDENT_BARAK_OBAMA.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Afghanistan</span> ha<span style="background-color: yellow;">s</span>, and ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">present in Afghanistan.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Impact inevitable—Current withdrawal deadline triggers the lack of commitment**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. 3/8, “Why Obama was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline.” MichaelRubin.Org. March 8.<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true, ... </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and even Russia</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Afghanistan killing NATO Credibility**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel. Executive Director of the Center of Transatlantic Relations. “Alliance Reborn: An Atlantic Compact for the 21st Century. Center for Strategic International Studies. February 2009. <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:8f76olNH7woJ:transatlantic.sais-jhu.edu/bin/i/y/nato_report_final.pdf]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Visions of a</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more ... Pakistan and beyond.</span></span>


==<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2AC Obama Good</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reducing troops costs less political capital than maintaining COIN. </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Inboden 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William, senior vice president of the Legatum Institute, 8/21, “Obama and LBJ: A Comparison to Avoid”, http://blog.american.com/?p=4139) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span>__there are …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">what not to do. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winners Win </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Singer 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, an editor of MyDD, a position he has held since November 2005. Singer is a Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law, 3/</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">3/09 (Johnathan, My direct Democracy, By expending capital, Obama Grows His Capital, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; page-break-after: avoid;">Peter Hart gets … the war in Iraq. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal fosters bipartisanship – GOP hates spending and troop deaths. </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Innocent 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent -foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute – 3/10/2010, Politico “Leaving Afghanistan Moves Beyond Left vs. Right” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11437]]</span>) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The resolution's substance … </span> __bring them home.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CT provides Obama cover </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">LA Times 9</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">October 27, 2009 “John Kerry's Afghan war speech; Foreshadowing Obama's decision?” <latimes.com/washington/2009/10/john-kerry-barack-obama-afghanistan-war-speech-text.html> </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">With casualties rising</span>, … a-really-bad-situation lines.__



==2AC Security K== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if our epistemology isn’t perfect its preferable to take action - the alt is policy paralysis </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Owen 2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton,Millennium Vol 31 No 3 p. 655-7) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">vicious circle arises</span>.__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realism is inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos. </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Mearsheimer 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The optimists' claim … </span> __region at peace__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Discourse doesn’t matter – terrorists are real and want to kill us. We have to kill them </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Peters 4 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ralph, retired Army officer and the author of 19 books, as well as of hundreds of essays and articles, experience, military or civilian, in 60 countries, and is a frequent contributor to Parameters, Parameters, Summer 2004, “In Praise of Attrition”</span>
__Trust me. <span style="background-color: lime;">We don’t … **on killing you**.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realism can incorporate critical insights </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Cozette 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MURIELLE COZETTE* BA (Hons) (Sciences Po Paris), MA (King's College London), MA (Sciences Po Paris), PhD (LSE) is a John Vincent Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of International Relations. Review of International Studies (2008), 34, 5–27 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article concentrates … </span>__the powers-that-be.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security can’t be deconstructed – scenario planning is the only ethical option </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Weaver 2k</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ole Weaver, International relations theory and the politics of European integration, 2k p. 284-285 </span>
__The other__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> main … violence and mutual vilification.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Alt cedes the political- Weimar proves </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Wallace and Saltaire 96</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lord William Wallace, Baron of Saltaire, AND PhD Cornell, Former IR Prof London School of Economics, Review of international Studies 1996 (22) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">failure of</span> the …__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> than to undermine it.32 (308-9) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Boggs 97</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carl Boggs, 1997, National University, Los Angeles, The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America, http://steinhardt.nyu.edu/international.olde/mias/readings07/10.pdf) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-right: 0.2in; text-align: justify;">__The false sense of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> had vanished from civil society.75 </span></span>


=Neg= 
==MIB PIC== 
**Text: The United States federal government should institute a phased withdrawal of the United States Air Force, the United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, the**
**2nd Infantry Division, 19th Expeditionary Sustainment Command, 1st Signal Brigade, 35th Air Defense Artillery Brigade, 65th Medical Brigade, Special Troops Battalion-Korea, Korean Service Corps Battalion, UNC Security Battalion-Joint Security Area, 129th Medical Detachment, Korea Field Office, 175th Financial Management Center, Army Special Operations Forces Liaison Element-Korea, Joint U.S. Military Affairs Group-Korea, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Far East District, Eighth United States Army Band, and the Eighth United States Army Noncommissioned Officers Academy.**

**Military intelligence brigade is key to implementing a counterbattery strategy**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CUMMINGS 4</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
PROVIDE NECESSARY MILITARY TRAINING AND ASSETS FOR SOUTH KOREA ASSUME ……. ROK training requests and equipment transfers.

**Even if the South Korean military is otherwise powerful, they can’t prosecute counterbattery missions**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CUMMINGS 4</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
The strength of the ROK defense structure ……..speed transition of missions from USFK to ROK responsibility.

**Impact is chemical and biological war**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KOSU NEWS 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“U.S. Assesses Options In Possible North Korea Conflict,” 7-29-2010, http://kosu.org/2010/07/us-assesses-options-in-possible-north-korea-conflict/)</span>
War might begin with North Korea …..that they had fired had hit Seoul<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Green says.</span>

**Impact is extinction**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 02</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
Of all the weapons of … the highest of all crimes.


==T - Substantial (Japan Naval)== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">Blechman et al, 97</span></span> –President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)
The highly complex nature of military presence operations, with manifestations both psychological and physical, makes their effects difficult to identify and assess. Nonetheless, presence missions (whether employing forces stationed abroad or afloat, temporarily deployed or permanently based overseas, or based in the United States) are integral parts of U.S. defense strategy. Through routine presence operations, the United States seeks to reinforce alliances and friendships, make credible security commitments to crucial regions, and nurture cooperative political relations. More episodically, forces engaged in presence operations can dissuade aggressors from hostile demands, help prevent or contain regional crises, and, when conflict erupts nonetheless, provide an infrastructure for the transition to war. Given its multifaceted nature, neither practitioners nor scholars have yet settled on a single definition of presence. Technically, the term refers to both a military posture and a military objective. This study uses the term “presence” to refer to a continuum of military activities, from a variety of interactions during peacetime to crisis response involving both forces on the scene and those based in the United States. Our definition follows that articulated by the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff: “Presence is the totality of U.S. instruments of power deployed overseas (both permanently and temporarily) along with the requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A substantial reduction in presence is atleast 50%</span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime;">CBCRRA 92 </span></span>**(1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS TO BE CLOSED SEC. 101. CLEANUP SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN BASES ON SUPERFUND NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST. (a) CLEANUP SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN BASES ON NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST.-(1) With respect to each military installation described in subsection (b)- (A) before the installation is closed or substantial reductions in its operations have occurred, at least 75 percent of the remedial action required on the installation pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) shall be completed; and (B) not later than two years after the installation is closed or substantial reductions in its operations have occurred, all of the remedial action required on the installation pursuant to such Act shall be completed. (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), substantial reductions in the operations of a military installation shall be considered to have occurred if more than 50 percent of the personnel assigned to the installation, including employees and members of the Armed Forces, have been reassigned and moved to another installation.

**B. We have 35,562 troops in japan but only 3707 naval troops**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">Dod Active Duty Military Personnel Strengths by Regional Area and by Country 3/31</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(3/31/2010, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst1003.pdf) </span>
(this is a chart)

==Experientialism K== 
===Experientialism - 1NC=== 

We should engage in a genealogy of experience – we must acknowledge that social location is inevitably contingent and contested – questions of discourse and representation necessarily come first

Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
The reading I offered of Delany at the beginning of this essay is an example of the kind of reading I want to avoid. I would like now to present another reading—one suggested to me by literary critic Karen Swann—as a way of indicating what might be involved in historicizing the notion of experience. It is also a way of agreeing with and appreciating Swann's argument about "the importance of the literary' to the historical project."40 For Delany, witnessing the scene at the bathhouse (an "undulating mass of naked male bodies" seen under a dim blue light) was an event. It marked what in one kind of reading we would call a coming to consciousness of himself, a recognition of his authentic identity, one he had always shared, would always share with others like himself. Another kind of reading, closer to Delany's preoccupation with memory and the self in this autobiography, sees this event not as the discovery of truth (conceived as the reflection of a prediscursive reality), but as the substitution of one interpretation for another. Delany presents this substitution as a conversion experience, a clarifying moment, after which he sees (that is, understands) differently. But there is all the difference between subjective perceptual clarity and transparent vision; one does not necessarily follow from the other even if the subjective state is metaphorically presented as a visual experience. Moreover, as Swann has pointed out, "the properties of the medium through which the visible appears—here, the dim blue light, whose distorting, refracting qualities produce a wavering of the visible" — make any claim to unmediated transparency impossible. Instead, the wavering light permits a vision beyond the visible, a vision that contains the fantastic projections ("millions of gay men" for whom "history had, actively and already, created . . . whole galleries of institutions") that are the basis for political identification. "In this version of the story," Swann notes, "political consciousness and power originate, not in a presumedly unmediated experience of presumedly real gay identities, but out of an apprehension of the moving, differencing properties of the representational medium—the motion of light in water." The question of representation is central to Delany's memoir. It is a question of social categories, personal understanding, and language, all of which are connected, none of which are or can be a direct reflection of the others. What does it mean to be black, gay, a writer, he asks, and is there a realm of personal identity possible apart from social constraint? The answer is that the social and the personal are imbricated in one another and that both are historically variable. The meanings of the categories of identity change and with them the possibilities for thinking the self: At that time, the words "black" and "gay"—for openers—didn't exist with their current meanings, usage, history. 1961 had still been, really, part of the fifties. The political consciousness that was to form by the end of the sixties had not been part of my world. There were only Negroes and homosexuals, both of whom—along with artists— were hugely devalued in the social hierarchy. It's even hard to speak of that world. [M, p. 242] But the available social categories aren't sufficient for Delany's story. It is difficult, if not impossible to use a single narrative to account for his experience. Instead he makes entries in a notebook, at the front about material things, at the back about sexual desire. These are "parallel narratives, in parallel columns" {M, p. 29). Although one seems to be about society, the public, and the political, and the other about the individual, the private, and the psychological, in fact both narratives are inescapably historical; they are discursive productions of knowledge of the self, not reflections either of external or internal truth. "That the two columns must be the Marxist and the Freudian—the material column and the column of desire—is only a modernist prejudice. The autonomy of each is subverted by the same excesses, just as severely" (M, p. 212). The two columns are constitutive of one another, yet the relationship between them is difficult to specify. Does the social and economic determine the subjective? Is the private entirely separate from or completely integral to the public? Delany voices the desire to resolve the problem: "Certainly one must be the lie that is illuminated by the other's truth" (M, p. 212). And then he denies that resolution is possible since answers to these questions do not exist apart from the discourses that produce them: If it is the split—the space between the two columns (one resplendent and lucid with the writings of legitimacy, the other dark and hollow with the voices of the illegitimate)—that constitutes the subject, it is only after the Romantic inflation of the private into the subjective that such a split can even be located. That locus, that margin, that split itself first allows, then demands the appropriation of language— now spoken, now written—in both directions, over the gap. [M, pp. 29-30] It is finally by tracking "the appropriation of language ... in both directions, over the gap," and by situating and contextualizing that language that one historicizes the terms by which experience is represented, and so historicizes "experience" itself. Conclusion Reading for "the literary" does not seem at all Inappropriate for those whose discipline is devoted to the study of change. It is not the only kind of reading I am advocating, although more documents than those written by literary figures are susceptible to such readings. Rather it is a way of changing the focus and the philosophy of our history, from one bent on naturalizing "experience" through a belief in the unmediated relationship between words and things, to one that takes all categories of analysis as contextual, contested, and contingent. How have categories of representation and analysis—such as class, race, gender, relations of production, biology, identity, subjectivity, agency, experience, even culture—achieved their foundational status? What have been the effects of their articulations? What does it mean for historians to study the past in terms of these categories and for individuals to think of themselves in these terms? What is the relationship between the salience of such categories in our own time and their existence in the past? Questions such as these open consideration of what Dominick LaCapra has referred to as the "transferential" relationship between the historian and the past, that is, of the relationship between the power of the historian's analytic frame and the events that are the object of his or her study.41 And they historicize both sides of that relationship by denying the fixity and transcendence of anything that appears to operate as a foundation, turning attention instead to the history of foundationalist concepts themselves. The history of these concepts (understood to be contested and contradictory) then becomes the evidence by which "experience" can be grasped and by which the historian's relationship to the past he or she writes about can be articulated. This is what Foucault meant by genealogy: If interpretation were the slow exposure of the meaning hidden in an origin, then only metaphysics could interpret the development of humanity. But if interpretation is the violent or surreptitious appropriation of a system of rules, which in itself has no essential meaning, in order to impose a direction, to bend it to a new will, to force its participation in a different game, and to subject it to secondary rules, then the development of humanity is a series of interpretations. The role of genealogy is to record its history: the history of morals, ideals, and metaphysical concepts, the history of the concept of liberty or of the ascetic life; as they stand for the emergence of different interpretations, they must be made to appear as events on the stage of historical process.42 Experience is not a word we can do without, although, given its usage to essentialize identity and reify the subject, it is tempting to abandon it altogether. But experience is so much a part of everyday language, so imbricated in our narratives that it seems futile to argue for its expulsion. It serves as a way of talking about what happened, of establishing difference and similarity, of claiming knowledge that is "unassailable."43 Given the ubiquity of the term, it seems to me more useful to work with it, to analyze its operations and to redefine its meaning. This entails focussing on processes of identity production, insisting on the discursive nature of "experience" and on the politics of its construction. Experience is at once always already an interpretation and something that needs to be interpreted. What counts as experience is neither self-evident nor straightforward; it is always contested, and always therefore political. The study of experience, therefore, must call into question its originary status in historical explanation. This will happen when historians take as their project not the reproduction and transmission of knowledge said to be arrived at through experience, but the analysis of the production of that knowledge itself. Such an analysis would constitute a genuinely nonfoundational history, one which retains its explanatory power and its interest in change but does not stand on or reproduce naturalized categories."14 It also cannot guarantee the historian's neutrality, for deciding which categories to historicize is inevitably political, necessarily tied to the historian's recognition of his or her stake in the production of knowledge. Experience is, in this approach, not the origin of our explanation, but that which we want to explain. This kind of approach does not undercut politics by denying the existence of subjects; it instead interrogates the processes of their creation and, in so doing, refigures history and the role of the historian and opens new ways for thinking about change.45

And, this is a net benefit to our topicality argument – studying the inner workings of oppression is crucial to combat it
Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
The project of making experience visible precludes analysis of the workings of this system and of its historicity; instead, it reproduces its terms. We come to appreciate the consequences of the closeting of homosexuals and we understand repression as an interested act of power or domination; alternative behaviors and institutions also become available to us. What we don't have is a way of placing those alternatives within the framework of (historically contingent) dominant patterns of sexuality and the ideology that supports them. We know they exist, but not how they have been constructed; we know their existence offers a critique of normative practices, but not the extent of the critique. Making visible the experience of a different group exposes the existence of repressive mechanisms, but not their inner workings or logics; we know that difference exists, but we don't understand it as relationally constituted. For that we need to attend to the historical processes that, through discourse, position subjects and produce their experiences. It is not individuals who have experience, but subjects who are constituted through experience. Experience in this definition then becomes not the origin of our explanation, not the authoritative (because seen or felt) evidence that grounds what is known, but rather that which we seek to explain, that about which knowledge is produced. To think about experience in this way is to historicize it as well as to historicize the identities it produces. This kind of historicizing represents a reply to the many contemporary historians who have argued that an un-problematized "experience" is the foundation of their practice; it is a historicizing that implies critical scrutiny of all explanatory categories usually taken for granted, including the category of "experience."

===Experientialism - 2NC=== 
First, masking – positing experience as primary forecloses a true interrogation of systems of domination

Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
Judith Newton, a literary historian writing about the neglect of feminism by contemporary critical theorists, argues that women, too, arrived at the critique of objectivity usually associated with deconstruction or the new historicism. This feminist critique came "straight out of reflection on our own, that is, women's experience, out of the contradictions we felt between the different ways we were represented even to ourselves, out of the inequities we had long experienced in our situations."25 Newton's appeal to experience seems to bypass the issue of objectivity (by not raising the question of whether feminist work can be objective) but it rests firmly on a foundational ground (experience). In her work the relationship between thought and experience is represented as transparent (the visual metaphor combines with the visceral) and so is directly accessible, as it is in historian Christine Stansell's insistence that "social practices," in all their "immediacy and entirety," constitute a domain of "sensuous experience" (a prediscursive reality directly felt, seen, and known) that cannot be subsumed by "language."26 The effect of these kinds of statements, which attribute an indisputable authenticity to women's experience, is to establish incontrovertibly women's identity as people with agency. It is also to universalize the identity of women and thus to ground claims for the legitimacy of women's history in the shared experience of historians of women and those women whose stories they tell. In addition, it literally equates the personal with the political, for the lived experience of women is seen as leading directly to resistance to oppression, that is, to feminism.27 Indeed, the possibility of politics is said to rest on, to follow from, a preexisting women's experience. "Because of its drive towards a political massing together of women," writes Denise Riley, "feminism can never wholeheartedly dismantle 'women's experience,' however much this category conflates the attributed, the imposed, and the lived, and then sanctifies the resulting melange." The kind of argument for a women's history (and for a feminist politics) that Riley criticizes closes down inquiry into the ways in which female subjectivity is produced, the ways in which agency is made possible, the ways in which race and sexuality intersect with gender, the ways in which politics organize and interpret experience—in sum, the ways in which identity is a contested terrain, the site of multiple and conflicting claims. In Riley's words, "it masks the likelihood that ... [experiences] have accrued to women not by virtue of their womanhood alone, but as traces of domination, whether natural or political."281 would add that it masks the necessarily discursive character of these experiences as well.

Second, naturalization – utilizing experience or social location naturalizes difference – the narrative discourse of black/white relations preordains oppression by ignoring broader structures of knowledge
Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
In the various usages described by Williams, "experience," whether conceived as internal or external, subjective or objective, establishes the prior existence of individuals. When it is defined as internal, it is an expression of an individual's being or consciousness; when external, it is the material on which consciousness then acts. Talking about experience in these ways leads us to take the existence of individuals for granted (experience is something people have) rather than to ask how conceptions of selves (of subjects and their identities) are produced.16 It operates within an ideological construction that not only makes individuals the starting point of knowledge, but that also naturalizes categories such as man, woman, black, white, heterosexual, and homosexual by treating them as given characteristics of individuals. Teresa de Lauretis's redefinition of experience exposes the workings of this ideology. "Experience," she writes, is the process by which, for all social beings, subjectivity is constructed. Through that process one places oneself or is placed in social reality, and so perceives and comprehends as subjective (referring to, originating in, oneself) those relations—material, economic, and interpersonal—which are in fact social and, in a larger perspective, historical.17 The process that de Lauretis describes operates crucially through differentiation; its effect is to constitute subjects as fixed and autonomous, and who are considered reliable sources of a knowledge that comes from access to the real by means of their experience.18 When talking about historians and other students of the human sciences it is important to note that this subject is both the object of inquiry—the person one studies in the present or the past—and the investigator him- or herself—the historian who produces knowledge of the past based on "experience" in the archives or the anthropologist who produces knowledge of other cultures based on "experience" as a participant observer. The concepts of experience described by Williams preclude inquiry into processes of subject-construction; and they avoid examining the relationships between discourse, cognition, and reality, the relevance of the position or situatedness of subjects to the knowledge they produce, and the effects of difference on knowledge. Questions are not raised about, for example, whether it matters for the history they write that historians are men, women, white, black, straight, or gay; instead, as de Certeau writes, "the authority of the 'subject of knowledge' [is measured] by the elimination of everything concerning the speaker" ("H," p. 218). His knowledge, reflecting as it does something apart from him, is legitimated and presented as universal, accessible to all. There is no power or politics in these notions of knowledge and experience.

Third, essentialism – Prioritizing social location and individual experience risks homogenizing identity
Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
And yet in his use of it, experience, because it is ultimately shaped by relations of production, is a unifying phenomenon, overriding other kinds of diversity. Since these relations of production are common to workers of different ethnicities, religions, regions, and trades they necessarily provide a common denominator and emerge as a more salient determinant of "experience" than anything else. In Thompson's use of the term, experience is the start of a process that culminates in the realization and articulation of social consciousness, in this case a common identity of class. It serves an integrating function, joining the individual and the structural, and bringing together diverse people into that coherent (totalizing) whole which is a distinctive sense of class.23 " 'Experience' (we have found) has, in the last instance, been generated in 'material life', has been structured in class ways, and hence 'social being' has determined 'social consciousness"' ("PT," p. 171). In this way unequivocal and uniform identity is produced through objective circumstances and there is no reason to ask how this identity achieved predominance—it had to. The unifying aspect of experience excludes whole realms of human activity by simply not counting them as experience, at least not with any consequences for social organization or politics. When class becomes an overriding identity, other subject-positions are subsumed by it, those of gender, for example (or, in other instances of this kind, of history, race, ethnicity, and sexuality). The positions of men and women and their different relationships to politics are taken as reflections of material and social arrangements rather than as products of class politics itself; they are part of the "experience" of capitalism. Instead of asking how some experiences become more salient than others, how what matters to Thompson is defined as experience, and how differences are dissolved, experience becomes itself cumulative and homogenizing, providing the common denominator on which class consciousness is built.

And, essentialism precludes emancipation – the imposition of a universal subject-state denies true critique
Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
Spivak's characterization of the Subaltern Studies historians' reliance on a notion of consciousness as a "strategic use of positivist essentialism" doesn't really solve the problem of writing history either, since whether it's strategic or not, essentialism appeals to the idea that there are fixed identities, visible to us as social or natural facts.35 A refusal of essentialism seems particularly important once again these days within the field of history, as disciplinary pressure builds to defend the unitary subject in the name of his or her "experience." Neither does Spivak's invocation of the special political status of the subaltern justify a history aimed at producing subjects without interrogating and relativizing the means of their production. In the case of colonial and postcolonial peoples, but also of various others in the West, it has been precisely the imposition of a categorical (and universal) subject-status (the worker, the peasant, the woman, the black) that, has masked the operations of difference in the organization of social life. Each category taken as fixed works to solidify the ideological process of subject-construction, making the process less rather than more apparent, naturalizing rather than analyzing it.


The kritik is a prior question – how we authorize knowledge is filtered through our understanding of objectivity – their use of experientialism within the context of debate obscures critical questions of process
Scott 91 (Joan W. Scott, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, “The Evidence of Experience”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Summer, 1991), 773-797)
Thompson's own role in determining the salience of certain things and not others is never addressed. Although his author's voice intervenes powerfully with moral and ethical judgments about the situations he is recounting, the presentation of the experiences themselves is meant to secure their objective status. We forget that Thompson's history, like the accounts offered by political organizers in the nineteenth century of what mattered in workers' lives, is an interpretation, a selective ordering of information that through its use of originary categories and teleological accounts legitimizes a particular kind of politics (it becomes the only possible politics) and a particular way of doing history (as a reflection of what happened, the description of which is little influenced by the historian if, in this case, he only has the requisite moral vision that permits identification with the experiences of workers in the past). In Thompson's account class is finally an identity rooted in structural relations that preexist politics. What this obscures is the contradictory and contested process by which class itself was conceptualized and by which diverse kinds of subject-positions were assigned, felt, contested, or embraced. As a result, Thompson's brilliant history of the English working class, which set out to historicize the category of class, ends up essentializing it. The ground may seem to be displaced from structure to agency by insisting on the subjectively felt nature of experience, but the problem Thompson sought to address isn't really solved. Working-class "experience" is now the ontological foundation of working-class identity, politics, and history.24This kind of use of experience has the same foundational status if we substitute "women's" or "black" or "lesbian" or "homosexual" for "working-class" in the previous sentence. Among feminist historians, for example, "experience" has helped to legitimize a critique of the false claims to objectivity of traditional historical accounts. Part of the project of some feminist history has been to unmask all claims to objectivity as an ideological cover for masculine bias by pointing out the shortcomings, incompleteness, and exclusiveness of mainstream history. This has been achieved by providing documentation about women in the past that calls into question existing interpretations made without consideration of gender. But how do we authorize the new knowledge if the possibility of all historical objectivity has been questioned? By appealing to experience, which in this usage connotes both reality and its subjective apprehension—the experience of women in the past and of women historians who can recognize something of themselves in their foremothers.