[[toc]]
=AFF= 
==Balancing Aff== 
===Balancing 1AC (Memorial)=== 
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Contention 1: Power Wars </span>**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Alliance collapse and withdrawal is inevitable in the status quo – it’s just a question of japanese COOPERATION with the united states </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jitsuro 10</span></span> (Terashima, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve]]</span>, AD: 9/23/10) jl</span>
In the raging currents of world history, the framework of Cold War-style "alliance diplomacy" has reached its limit. In particular, the mechanism of the US-Japan alliance that has become fixed by inertia and vested interests in the 65 years since the end of the war has clearly begun to squeak, and the need for the rejuvenation of this alliance is becoming sharply visible. The tale of a new era has only just begun. Why Hatoyama's Foreign Policy Failed: The Structure of the Flip-Flop The reason for the failure of Hatoyama's foreign policy is clear. He positioned the Futenma problem as an issue of reducing the burden of the US bases on Okinawa, and he was never able to get out of that box. In a sense, Hatoyama is a man of great benevolence, and he is deeply troubled by the fact that more than 70 percent of the US bases in Japan are concentrated in Okinawa, placing an extreme burden on the people of the prefecture. He was thus seriously committed to finding a site outside of Okinawa for the relocation of the Futenma base. But moving the base out of the prefecture, to Tokunoshima for example, would not solve the problem; it would simply diffuse the bases, something even people in Okinawa recognize. It would be easier for them to understand, however begrudgingly, if the DPJ government had accepted as a fait accompli the agreement to move the base to Henoko negotiated by the previous LDP government, but had placed the Futenma problem in the context of a long-term vision of dealing with the overall issue of the bases in Japan. Instead, it became a dispute over finding a substitute site and degenerated into a foolish game of holding out one piece of a jigsaw puzzle. The Futenma problem emerged after the 1995 rape of an Okinawan girl by US soldiers, followed by the 2004 crash of a large helicopter. It is essentially a problem of the safety of the US bases. As such, the party that caused these incidents-the US military-would be expected to take responsibility for resolving the problem, including finding a replacement site. Instead, the US took the stance, "We'll be happy to move if we like the new site," and stood by waiting for the Japanese to resolve their domestic dispute, implicitly allowing pressure to build as time passed.


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">China’s building its offensive capabilities—they’re targeted at U.S. military capabilities in East Asia </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gertz 10</span></span> (Bill, Staffwriter@The Washington Times, August 17, "China Targets US Troops With Arms Buildup", http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/China--Targets-Arms--Buildup/2010/08/17/id/367664, accessed 9/15/10)jn
China is aggressively building up military forces to strike U.S. forces in the western Pacific and elsewhere as part of what the Pentagon calls an array of high-tech "anti-access" missiles, submarines and warplanes in its latest annual report. The report to Congress on China's military power, released Monday, also warned that China's military is extending its global military reach beyond a weapons buildup to wage regional war with Taiwan and the United States. The report also questioned U.S.-China military exchanges, noting that Beijing is using the visits and meetings for political influence operations and intelligence gathering. "China is fielding an array of conventionally armed ballistic missiles, ground- and air-launched land-attack cruise missiles, special operations forces, and cyberwarfare capabilities to hold targets at risk throughout the region," the report said. Release of the assessment comes amid reports that China has surpassed Japan as the world's second largest economy in terms of gross domestic product, highlighting Beijing's expanding global power. Japan's nominal GDP, which isn't adjusted for price and seasonal variations, was worth almost $1.29 trillion in the April-to-June quarter compared with almost $1.34 trillion for China, the Associated Press reported. The figures are converted into dollars based on an average exchange rate for the quarter. The 74-page Pentagon report highlighted numerous military developments by China's 125-million-troop army, including the first mention of a new multiple-warhead, long-range road-mobile missile, and details on China's plan to field aircraft carriers. Much of the report builds on past reports on China's arms buildup, which includes a modestly growing nuclear arsenal and large-scale expansion of missile, naval and air forces. However, the report for the first time highlighted the growth of Chinese anti-access and area-denial weapons, notably Beijing's building and testing of a unique anti-ship ballistic missile that can hit ships at sea with pinpoint accuracy up to 1,000 miles from China's coasts. The goal of these forces is to have forces that can attack U.S. ships should they be called on to defend Taiwan in a future conflict with China. "China is pursuing a variety of air, sea, undersea, space and counterspace, and information warfare systems and operational concepts to achieve this capability, moving toward an array of overlapping, multilayered offensive capabilities extending from China's coast into the western Pacific," the report said of the anti-access arms. Primary anti-access weapons are China's medium-range missiles "designed to target forces at sea, combined with overhead and over-the-horizon targeting systems to locate and track moving ships." Additionally, China now has six nuclear powered attack submarines and 54 diesel-electric powered submarines, many of them outfitted with advanced anti-ship cruise missiles. Other key anti-access weapons include Luyang 1- and 2-class guided-missile ships and Russian-made Sovremenny-class missile ships. The ships are equipped with advanced long-range anti-aircraft and anti-ship missiles. For anti-access air strikes, the Chinese have indigenous FB-7 and FB-7A jets, and Russian SU-30s. All the jets are armed with anti-ship cruise missiles for use against surface ships. "China's long-term, comprehensive transformation of its military forces is improving its capacity for force projection and anti-access/area-denial," the report said. Other strategic and conventional weapons developments disclosed in the report include: • Deployment of up to 500 DH-10 long-range, precision-strike land-attack cruise missiles. The number is a sharp increase from the 2009 report that listed up to 350 DH-10s deployed. • Continued development of anti-satellite (ASAT) missiles and other weapons that can destroy or damage space communications and sensor systems, along with a growing array of space systems that China will use for its missile targeting and weapons navigation. "China continues to develop and refine this system, which is one component of a multi-dimensional program to limit or prevent the use of space-based assets by potential adversaries during times of crisis or conflict," the report said of the ASAT weapons. • Deployment of joint Chinese military-civilian militia cyberwarfare units armed with computer viruses to attack foreign computer networks. • New power projection forces that give China's military an extended range and are upsetting East Asian stability, specifically threatening the South China Sea region where tensions have been raised. • China's military and civilian leaders are using numerous military exchanges at varying levels with the Pentagon "to communicate political messages and shape perceptions of China among foreign leaders." • China will continue to be heavily dependent on oil imported by ship in the coming decades. By 2015, almost two-thirds of its oil will be imported and by 2030, four-fifths. The oil dependency will affect China's military power projection. Sen. John Cornyn, Texas Republican, said the report "paints an alarming picture, despite its 'glass half full' perspective." "It is clear that China is aggressively expanding its military capabilities, which appear to be aimed at limiting American strategic options in the Pacific," he said. "This troubling reality is inconsistent with China's supposed interest in fostering a peaceful, stable region."

**CHINA IS MOVING TO AN INDEPENDENT ECONOMY—ECONOMIC RELATIONS WON’T SOLVE CONFLICT**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newsweek 2009</span></span> (Niall Ferguson, Contributor, August 31, “ ‘Chimerica’ is headed for Divorce”, Lexis)jn 
When does [[#ORIGHIT_1]][[#HIT_1]]a rising power become a threat? There is seldom a single moment. A century ago, AngloGerman antagonism was still a relatively new phenomenon; an alliance between the two empires seemed plausible as late as 1899. Likewise, the United States took time to identify Japan as a serious rival in the Pacific region; it was not until the 1930s that relations really soured. In both cases, the perception of a strategic threat was slow to grow. But grow it did--and ultimately it led to war. Could the same be happening to the United States and China today? Are we imperceptibly but inexorably slipping from cooperation to competition? Back in early 2007, it seemed as if China and America were so intertwined they'd become one economy: I called it "Chimerica." The Chinese did the saving, the Americans the spending. The Chinese did the exporting, the Americans the importing. The Chinese did the lending, the Americans the borrowing. As the Chinese strategy was based on export-led growth, they had no desire to see their currency appreciate against the dollar. So they intervened consistently in currency markets, and as a result, they now have international reserves totaling $2.1 trillion. About 70 percent of these are in dollar-denominated securities, and a large proportion of these are in U.S. government bonds. The unintended effect of this was to help finance the U.S. current-account deficit at very low interest rates. Without those low long-term rates, it's hard to believe that the U.S. -real-estate market would have bubbled the way it did between 2002 and 2007. For a time Chimerica seemed like a marriage made in heaven: both economies grew so fast that they accounted for about 40 percent of global growth between 1998 and 2007. The big question now is whether or not this marriage is on the rocks. America's highly indebted consumers just can't borrow anymore. The U.S. savings rate is soaring upward, and U.S. imports from China have slumped, down 18 percent between May 2008 and May 2009. Of course, that doesn't mean the Chinese are going to stop buying dollars. They dare not allow their currency to appreciate when so many jobs in the export sector are under threat. But it does mean that they are questioning the Chimerica strategy. It's a bit like one of those marriages between a compulsive saver and a chronic spender. Such partnerships can work for a certain period of time, but eventually the penny-pincher gets disillusioned with the spendthrift. Every time Chinese officials express concern about U.S. fiscal or monetary policy, it reminds me of one of those domestic tiffs in which the saver says to the spender: "You maxed out on the credit cards once too often, honey." Let's look at the numbers. China's holdings of U.S. Treasuries rose to $801.5 billion in May, an increase of 5 percent from $763.5 billion in April. Call it $40 billion a month. And let's imagine the Chinese do that every month through this fiscal year. That would be a credit line to the U.S. government of $480 billion. Given that the total deficit is forecast to be about $2 trillion, that means the Chinese may finance less than a quarter of -total federal-government borrowing--whereas a few years ago they were financing virtually the whole deficit. The trouble is that the Chinese clearly feel they have enough U.S. government bonds. Their great anxiety is that the Obama administration's very lax fiscal policy, plus the Federal Reserve's policy of quantitative easing (in layman's terms, printing money), are going to cause one or both of two things to happen: the price of U.S. bonds could fall and/or the purchasing power of the dollar could fall. Either way the Chinese lose. Their current strategy is to shift their purchases to the short end of the yield curve, buying Treasury bills instead of 10-year bonds. But that doesn't address the currency risk. In a best-selling book titled Currency Wars, Chinese economist Song Hongbing warned that the United States has a bad habit of stiffing its creditors by letting the dollar slide. This, he points out, is what happened to the Japanese in the 1980s. First their currency strengthened against the dollar. Then their economy tanked. What is China's alternative if it seeks a divorce from America? Call it the empire option. Instead of continuing in this unhappy marriage, the Chinese can go it alone, counting on their growing economic might (according to Goldman Sachs, China's gross domestic product could equal that of the United States by 2027) to buy them global power in their own right. In some ways they've already begun doing this. Their naval strategy clearly implies a challenge to U.S. hegemony in the Asia-Pacific region. Their investments in African minerals and infrastructure look distinctly imperial too. And now the official line from Prime Minister Wen Jiabao is to "hasten the implementation of our 'going out' strategy and combine the utilization of foreign exchange reserves with the 'going out' of our enterprises." That sounds like a Chinese campaign to buy up foreign assets--exchanging dodgy dollars for copper mines. At the same time, crucially, the Chinese need to have their own domestic consumers step up to take the place of over leveraged Americans. China's economy is, above all, a manufacturing concern; if no one is going to the shopping malls, China's companies are just building their inventories. So a post-Chimerican China needs to be not only an empire, but also a consumer society. This will boost China's internal market as well as trade with its Asian neighbors, and will spur the development of an Asian economic bloc. The global implications of this divorce are huge. Imagine a new Cold War, but one in which the two superpowers are economically the same size. Or, if you prefer an older analogy, imagine a rerun of the Anglo-German antagonism of the early 1900s, with America in the role of Britain, and China in the role of imperial Germany. This is a better analogy because it captures the fact that a high level of economic integration does not necessarily prevent the [[#ORIGHIT_2]][[#HIT_2]]growth of strategic rivalry and, ultimately, conflict. 



**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">This is the most likely scenario for great power war – an aggressive China rise raises concern in Asia and Europe </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 10</span></span> (Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post; “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” May 25, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]]</span>, 9/10/10) jl
China's neighbors certainly would see the PRC's rise as anything but peaceful. Any coercive act would be a powerful impetus for Japan to create a larger military and adopt a more aggressive foreign policy. The greatest risk would be a confrontation with the U.S. Economic retaliation would be certain and military intervention possible. Given the length and strength of the U.S.-Taiwan relationship, no American administration could easily stand by if the PRC used force against Taipei. Chinese aggression also would validate the warnings of American hawks, who are pressing for ever higher military outlays despite America's dearth of serious adversaries. Even Europe would see Beijing as a threatening actor, rather as major European powers came to view Wilhelmine Germany, and likely would retaliate economically. Washington should press the PRC to take two simple steps: renounce the use of force to resolve Taiwan's status and remove missiles now targeting the island. In return, Taiwan should indicate that it will not ally with any party or allow other powers to use bases against the PRC. The U.S. should explain that it has no intention of intervening militarily against China, maintaining a military alliance with Taiwan, or using military facilities on the island. Washington also should pull back other military units stationed nearby, such as the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force on Okinawa. Demonstrating its pacific intent would enable the PRC to defuse proposals to revamp America's alliances with South Korea and Japan to deal with other contingencies — meaning China. Although Beijing's rise has been steady, its continued rise will be smoother if achieved in cooperation with its neighbors and without hostility from them or America. The PRC's own actions will be the most important factor in determining other nations' reactions. It is often said that Americans live in a dangerous world. We do. But shoe and underwear bombers do not match the threat posed by nation states armed with nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic missiles, carrier groups, and armored divisions. While the future is uncertain, it is difficult to imagine the U.S. at war with Russia, India, or any significant power other than China. Thankfully, conflict with the latter also remains unlikely. But the mere possibility of a future military confrontation reinforces the importance of the world's two most important nations working to defuse potential conflicts. Which means cooperating on North Korea and Taiwan. Doing so successfully would go a long way to make the 21st century one of peace and stability. 

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">EXTINCTION </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Strait Times 0</span></span> (“No one gains in war over Taiwan,” LN) jl
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.

**AND AN INDEPENDENT JAPANESE MILITARY FORCE CAN CHECK A CHINESE RISE**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carpenter 2010</span></span> (Ted, Vice President for defense and Foriegn Policy@CATO, April 7, "Tokyo Rising", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11665, accessed 9/16/10)jn
U.S. policy makers appear to have warmed gradually to a more robust Japanese military stance. That was certainly true during the administration of George W. Bush, when officials clearly sought to make the alliance with Japan a far more equal partnership. Yet some distrust of Japanese intentions lingers, both in the United States and portions of East Asia. The wariness about Japan as a more active military player is strongest in such countries as the Philippines and South Korea. The former endured a brutal occupation during World War II, and the latter still bears severe emotional scars from Tokyo's heavy-handed behavior as Korea's colonial master. Even in those countries, though, the intensity of the opposition to Japan becoming a normal great power and playing a more serious security role is waning. And in the rest of the region, the response to that prospect ranges from receptive to enthusiastic. That emerging realism is encouraging. The alternative to Japan and India (and possibly other actors, such as Indonesia and Vietnam) becoming strategic counterweights to a rising China ought to be worrisome. Given America's gradually waning hegemony, a failure by other major countries to step up and be significant security players would lead to a troubling power vacuum in the region. A vacuum that China would be well-positioned to fill. If China does not succumb to internal weaknesses (which are not trivial), it will almost certainly be the most prominent power in East Asia in the coming decades, gradually displacing the United States. But there is a big difference between being the leading power and being a hegemon. The latter is a result that Americans cannot welcome. The emergence of a multipolar power system in East Asia is the best outcome both for the United States and China's neighbors. It is gratifying that nations in the region seem to be reaching that conclusion. Australia and New Zealand may be a little ahead of the curve in that process, but the attitude in those countries about the desirability of Japan and India adopting more active security roles is not unique. Washington should embrace a similar view. 


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">PRESENCE ONLY RISKS A TRIPWIRE EFFECT—oFFSHORE BALANCING AND LETTING OUR ALLIES DETER CHINA IS THE ONLY WAY TO PREVENT WAR </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 2010</span></span>(Doug, Senior Fellow@The CATO Institute, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617, accessed 9/13/10, jn)
Today both U.S. and Japanese government officials cheerfully conspire against Okinawans. When the latter complain, Washington points to Tokyo. Tokyo points back at Washington. But, in fact, the ultimate decision lies in Tokyo. The American military is not organized to follow the will of Okinawa residents. That is the responsibility of their own national government. If Washington is going to both defend Japan and use Japanese territory as a launch pad for intervention elsewhere, troops must be stationed somewhere, and Okinawa is centrally located. In fact, there's no reason for the U.S. to do either. Allies are a means to an end; the defense of America, not allies, is America's vital interest. Sometimes protecting other nations is necessary for U.S. security, as during the Cold War. But that world disappeared long ago. Enemy threats are far fewer and allied capabilities are far greater. True, politicians and analysts alike routinely term America's alliances "cornerstones" and "linchpins" of U.S. security, regional stability, and world peace. In reality, today's alliance are unnecessary at best and dangerous transmission belts of conflict and war at worst. Consider Japan. President Barack Obama says that "America's commitment to Japan's security is unshakable," but does that mean the U.S. forever must defend that nation? The 1951 military treaty committed Japan to "increasingly assume responsibility for its own defense against direct and indirect aggression." In fact, Tokyo is capable of defending itself. Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada recently expressed doubt that "Japan on its own can face up to such risks" as China, but Tokyo needs a deterrent capability, not superiority. That is well within Japan's means. Certainly the U.S. would be far more secure if its allies and friends created forces to discourage aggression and worked together to encourage regional stability, rather than depended on Washington. If the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force located on Okinawa is not needed to defend Japan, then what is it for? South Korea vastly outranges the North on virtually every measure of power and can do whatever is necessary to deter North Korean adventurism. There also is much talk, offered unceasingly and uncritically, about maintaining regional stability. But what invasions, border fights, naval clashes, missile threats, and full-scale wars are the Marines preventing? And if conflict broke out, what would the Marines do? Launch a surprise landing in Beijing's Tiananmen Square during a war over Taiwan? Aid Indonesia, really the Javan Empire, in suppressing one or another group of secessionists? Help Thailand in a scrape with Burma triggered by the latter's guerrilla conflict spilling over the border? America has no reason to enter conflicts which threaten neither the U.S. nor a critical ally. Still, if the U.S. government desires to defend Japan and Japan wants to be defended, Washington inevitably must deal with the national government in Tokyo and ask for the best possible lodgings for its forces. Okinawa's travails will always be irrelevant from the U.S. government's standpoint. It's up to Japan to decide on where to place foreign bases and then to work with its prefectures and towns accordingly. Kurt Campbell, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, stated the brutal truth: "local conditions come to play, but these big decisions are at the level of our central governments." The Japanese government prefers to blame the U.S., since most Japanese don't want to change the status quo. Okinawans — from the smallest, poorest, and most distant prefecture — pay to host U.S. forces, leaving the rest of Japan free to enjoy the benefits while suffering little of the inconvenience. Okinawan opposition is undercut through subsidies from the central government and overridden by raw political power, since the prefecture has just a handful of seats in the national Diet. Explained Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirofumi Hirano: "It's not necessary to have the understanding and agreement from the local people." Thus, the issue of fairness to Okinawa is tied to the more basic question of Japan's foreign policy and military posture. If Tokyo demands alliance equality, it must behave in a way that justifies being treated as an equal. Which means Japan must take over responsibility for its own defense, as well as contribute to regional and global security. The Japanese people may decide that the threats they face are small — as, indeed, they are today. However, the future might not be so safe. Brad Glosserman of the Pacific Forum CSIS argues that "Northeast Asia, from a Japanese perspective, is a scary place." A threatening North Korea and aggressive China are much bigger potential threats to Tokyo than to Washington. The Japanese government needs to assess future dangers and decide on appropriate responses — without assuming that the U.S. Marines will show up to the rescue. It is Japan's decision, but it should not be based on the presumption of American intervention. Having made its decision, then Tokyo should reconfigure its forces. Fairness suggests a major drawdown from Okinawa irrespective of whose military is protecting Japan. If the U.S. disengaged militarily, these decisions could be made without pressure from Washington. The two countries would still have much to cooperate about, including security. Leaving responsibility for Japan's defense with Tokyo would simply eliminate the unrealistic expectations engendered by the alliance on both sides. The governments could focus on issues of mutual interest, sharing intelligence, preparing emergency base access, and otherwise cooperating to meet international challenges. The best way for Americans to help residents of Okinawa is to press Washington to reshape U.S. foreign policy, making it more appropriate for a republic than a pseudo-empire. With the rise of numerous prosperous allied and friendly states — most notably Japan, but also South Korea, Australia, India, and others — the U.S. should step back, prepared to deal with an aggressive hegemon should one arise but determined to avoid being dragged into routine geopolitical squabbles. Then Tokyo could chart its own destiny, including deciding what forces to raise and where to base them. The Japanese government could no longer use American pressure as an excuse for inaction in Okinawa. Then Okinawans finally might gain justice — after 65 long years. 


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Offshore balancing solves—preponderance risks multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 2009</span></span> (Doug, Senior fellow@CATO, August 31, "Tokyo Drift", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496, accessed 9/14/10)jn
Over the last half century Japan has changed far more than has the alliance. It is time to adjust the U.S.-Japan relationship accordingly. Some on the Right point out that Tokyo cannot demand equality unless it does more. Bruce Klingner of the Heritage Foundation observed: "Neither country is well served by endlessly repeated bromides of the strength of the alliance as it becomes increasingly apparent that Japan will not fulfill the security role required to address increasing global security threats." However, the real problem is not that Tokyo does too little, but the United States does too much. Japan's security dependence is not in America's interest. Why preserve a military relationship created in a very different world? Klingner contended that "the alliance is critical to fulfilling current U.S. strategic objectives," since "The forward deployment of a large U.S. military force in Japan deters military aggression by North Korea, signals Washington's resolve in defending U.S. allies, and provides an irreplaceable staging area should military action be necessary." Yet South Korea, with forty times the GDP, twice the population, and far greater military spending than Pyongyang, should be the one deterring threats from the North. America should not demonstrate resolve in defending allies — Japan as well as South Korea — which should be defending themselves. And Tokyo is unlikely to allow the United States to use facilities in Japan for American purposes — especially to initiate war against China over Taiwan or to otherwise maintain U.S. primacy. In fact, America's aggressive foreign policy and force structure, oriented to offense rather than defense, is why the United States spends so much on the military — roughly half of the global total. Washington has eleven carrier groups in order to attack other nations, such as Iran, North Korea and China, not to prevent them from attacking America. Even more so, the role of U.S. bases and forces abroad is offensive, to intervene. Protecting war-torn allied states in the aftermath of the greatest conflict of human history made sense. Doing the same today, when allied states have prospered and the most serious hegemonic threat has disappeared, does not make sense. Washington should return to Japan responsibility for its defense. Even today, Tokyo, though spending just one percent of GDP ($47 billion last year) on the military, is on par with the leading European states. But with the world's second largest economy (third based on purchasing power parity), Japan could do much more. Doubling its defense effort — which would still be half of America's burden — would match Chinese military spending. Whether Japan needs to do so is, of course, up to Japan. The more persuasive Beijing's so-called peaceful rise, the less pressure on Tokyo to act militarily. The more provocative North Korea in developing and testing both missiles and nuclear weapons, the greater the need for Japan to augment its forces. Whatever the Japanese people wish to do, they should pay the cost of and take responsibility for doing so. Particularly important is the future of so-called extended deterrence. Analysts like Harvard's Joseph Nye take the policy for granted, worrying only about whether or not it is credible. However, as Beijing develops its own strategic nuclear deterrent against America, the question will arise: should the United States risk Los Angeles for Tokyo? The increasing unpredictability of North Korean behavior has led to more discussion in Japan about the possibility of developing a countervailing weapon. The potential for further proliferation in the region is worrisome, but no more so than the possibility of a confrontation between the United States and nuclear-armed China over the interests of other nations. Deterrence can fail. And protecting other nations can lead them to be dangerously irresponsible. In any case, the United States would be less likely to have to rely on nuclear deterrence for Japan if that nation possessed an adequate conventional defense. With the rise of prosperous and/or populous allied states (Japan, South Korea, Australia, and several ASEAN nations) as well as friendly powers (India and Indonesia, most notably), Washington is in the position to act as an off-shore balancer, prepared to act against an aggressive hegemonic power should one arise, but not entangled in daily geopolitical controversies. America's overwhelming power and geographic isolation give Washington greater flexibility in defending its own security. Expecting Tokyo to protect itself doesn't mean severing bilateral security relationships. The United States and Japan should cooperate on issues ranging from intelligence sharing to emergency base access. Nye also writes of "a new set of transnational challenges to our vital interests, such as pandemics, terrorism, and human outflows from failed states. Chief among these challenges is the threat posed by global warming." None of these, however, compares to the importance of preserving the nation from attack. And none are relevant to a military alliance. In fact, today's emphasis on military issues may inhibit bilateral cooperation elsewhere.

**CONTENTION 2: STABILITY**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">an independent Japanese SDF stabilizes asia </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 2006</span></span>(Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, September, "A Plea for Normalcy", http://nationalinterest.org/article/a-plea-for-normalcy-1048?page=2, accessed 9/16/10)jn
Short of pre-emptive strikes, a Japanese military, operating independently of the United States, could deter North Korea from attacking Japan. An independent and empowered Japan might also succeed in convincing the DPRK to abandon its nuclear ambitions. The potential gains are speculative and Japan's actions will still be constrained by the anti-militarist impulses of the Japanese public, but the prospects for a more credible deterrent or threat coming from a "normal" Japan should be considered relative to U.S. economic and diplomatic pressure, which has been completely ineffective in halting North Korea's bellicosity. Japanese military power might prove instrumental for dealing with future, more serious challenges to the regional security order. Japan's lingering hostility toward and suspicion of North Korea in the near term pales in comparison with its medium- to long-term concerns of a rising China. The trajectory of China's rise to regional prominence threatens to collide with both Japanese and American interests. The open question is whether all three countries will be able to establish a new strategic balance or whether competition for influence in East Asia will lead to a clash that could threaten the lives of hundreds of millions of people on both sides of the Pacific. Common economic interests within Asia may lead to China's peaceful integration into the region. Or China could turn away from its current course of political and economic liberalization and revert to economic autarchy imposed by military force. It is even possible that China could become a revisionist power, no longer content to accept regional security configurations in their present form. That could occur even if the PRC holds to a course of economic reform. Against those unlikely but dangerous possibilities, Japan's neighbors should welcome a potential counterweight to a rising China. Many already do. Attitudes toward Japan vary widely, with Taiwanese, Singaporeans, Filipinos and Malays much more favorably disposed than are Koreans to the notion of a wider security role for Japan. These attitudes could evolve further if China's behavior grows more threatening. The decades-long U.S.-Japan strategic partnership is changing. Americans are becoming increasingly anxious about the costs and risks of our permanent global military presence. We welcome changes that will allow the U.S. military to step back from its role as the world's policeman, and are looking for ways to devolve security responsibilities and reduce our risk exposure. The Japanese--while retaining a strong anti-militarist disposition--are willing to play a more assertive role. They are anxious for their country to behave, and to be treated as a normal country, that is, as a country responsible for defending its interests. Japanese Self-Defense Forces are already highly capable, and Japanese military capabilities could quickly expand if the security environment grows more threatening. Japan is a stable and mature democracy. The pre-World War II era, when an imperial Japan attempted to secure an exclusive economic sphere for itself, is long past. The ghosts of World War II cannot be allowed to forever dictate the shape and character of U.S.-Japan relations. Americans and Japanese should welcome a transition away from a patron-client relationship, to one based on shared interests, mutual trust and understanding. 


**THAT PREVENTS MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR DRAW-IN AND NUCLEAR ESCALATION AND ECONOMIC COLLAPSE**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay 0</span></span> (Jonathan, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, 3-10, "Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts," LN) jl 
WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that begins at the heavily fortified border between North and South Korea and ends on the glacier where Indian and Pakistani troops skirmish almost every day has earned the dubious title of most dangerous part of the world. Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But even a minor miscalculation by any of them could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy and even start a nuclear war. India, Pakistan and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea may have a few, too. Asia lacks the kinds of organizations, negotiations and diplomatic relationships that helped keep an uneasy peace for five decades in Cold War Europe. "Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile," said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. "We see the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster." In an effort to cool the region's tempers, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger all will hopscotch Asia's capitals this month. For America, the stakes could hardly be higher. There are 100,000 U.S. troops in Asia committed to defending Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, and the United States would instantly become embroiled if Beijing moved against Taiwan or North Korea attacked South Korea. While Washington has no defense commitments to either India or Pakistan, a conflict between the two could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime. In addition, globalization has made a stable Asia _ with its massive markets, cheap labor, exports and resources _ indispensable to the U.S. economy. Numerous U.S. firms and millions of American jobs depend on trade with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.

**INDEPENDENTLY ECONOMIC COLLAPSE CAUSES EXTINCTION**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfield 8</span></span> (Mr. Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Mr. Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, WSJ, http://online.wsj.vom/articles/SB122455074012352571.html)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">WE OUTWEIGH ON PROBABILITY AND TIMEFRAME – CONFLICT CAN BREAK OUT QUICKLY AND ESCALATE GLOBALLY </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Emmott 8</span></span> (Bill, former editor of The Economist, 6-4, "Power rises in the east," The Australian, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,23768795-25132,00.html]]</span>, AD: 9/5/10) jl
The rise of Asia is not just, or even mainly, going to pit Asia against the West, shifting power from the latter to the former. It is going to pit Asians against Asians. This is the first time in history when there have been three powerful countries in Asia at the same time: China, India and Japan. That might not matter if they liked each other, or were somehow naturally compatible. But they do not, and are not. Far from it, in fact. Asia is becoming an arena of balance-of-power politics, with no clear leader, rather as Europe was during the 19th century. China may emerge as the most powerful of the three, but as with 19th-century Britain it is unlikely to be capable of dominating its continent. A new power game is under way, in which all must seek to be as friendly as possible to all, for fear of the consequences if they are not, but in which the friendship is only skin deep. All are manoeuvring to strengthen their positions and maximise their long-term advantages. The relationship between China, India and Japan is going to become increasingly difficult during the next decade. An array of disputes, historical bitternesses and regional flashpoints surround or weigh down on all three. Conflict is not inevitable but nor is it inconceivable. If it were to occur -- over Taiwan, say, or the Korean Peninsula, or Tibet or Pakistan -- it would not simply be an intra-Asian affair. The outside world inevitably would be drawn in, and especially the US, given its extensive military deployments and alliances in Asia. Such a conflict could break out very suddenly.


**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CONFLICT IN ASIA OUTWEIGHS—MOST LIKELY SCENARIO FOR NUCLEAR WAR AND LARGEST SCENARIOS FOR ESCALATION </span></span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dibb 2001</span></span>(Paul, Professor, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, January 1, “Asia at Crossroads”, //Strategic Trends//, accessed from http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-75762211/strategic-trends-military-and.html, accessed 9/16/10)jn
The areas of maximum danger and instability in the world today are in Asia, followed by the Middle East and parts of the former Soviet Union. The strategic situation in Asia is more uncertain and potentially threatening than anywhere in Europe. Unlike in Europe, it is possible to envisage war in Asia involving the major powers: remnants of Cold War ideological confrontation still exist across the Taiwan Straits and on the Korean Peninsula; India and Pakistan have nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, and these two countries are more confrontational than at any time since the early 1970s; in Southeast Asia, Indonesia--which is the world's fourth-largest country--faces a highly uncertain future that could lead to its breakup. The Asia-Pacific region spends more on defense (about $150 billion a year) than any other part of the world except the United States and Nato Europe. China and Japan are amongst the top four or five global military spenders. Asia also has more nuclear powers than any other region of the world. Asia's security is at a crossroads: the region could go in the direction of peace and cooperation, or it could slide into confrontation and military conflict. There are positive tendencies, including the resurgence of economic growth and the spread of democracy, which would encourage an optimistic view. But there are a number of negative tendencies that must be of serious concern. There are deep-seated historical, territorial, ideological, and religious differences in Asia. Also, the region has no history of successful multilateral security cooperation or arms control. Such multilateral institutions as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the ASEAN Regional Forum have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises. 

**INDEPENDENTLY, AN INDEPENDENT JAPANESE MILITARY WOULD PROVIDE A CREDIBLE DETERRENT TO NORTH KOREA AND END THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAM**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 2006</span></span>(Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, April 18, "Two Normal Countries: Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship", http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf, accessed 9/16/10)jn
The North Korean crisis may have provided the catalyst for a fundamental shift in Japanese strategy and policy, but it cannot be viewed in a vacuum. Although the steps thus far taken by Koizumi against North Korea have not satisfied a segment of the Japanese population, many of whom remain more concerned about the emotional abductee issue than about the objective security threat, China’s rise poses a more important challenge to Japan’s security over the medium to long term. 93 For now, given the urgency of the North Korean threat to Japan, and befitting Japan’s emergence as a normal power, it would be natural for Japan to take a leading role in attempting to end North Korea’s nuclear program. As other regional threats become more serious, however, many Japanese may come to resent U.S. policies that appear to impede their reasonable efforts to defend themselves. Continued strong opposition within Japan to the use of the military for offensive ends suggests that unilateral preemptive action by Japan against North Korea is highly unlikely. On the other hand, it is unrealistic to expect that Tokyo would wait for U.S. permission to respond to a direct attack. It is only slightly more plausible that the Japanese would refrain from using force in response to credible evidence of an imminent threat. Military action against North Korea, even if it were found to be a legitimate exercise of the right of self-defense, would certainly stir regional animosity. That is a reflection of the difficult balancing act that Japan must play vis-à-vis other potential allies in the region, chief among them South Korea. North and South Koreans alike harbor deep resentment toward the Japanese. Koreans were the victims of horrible crimes at the hands of the Japanese, of which the notorious abuses inflicted on Korean “comfort women” were only the most infamous. Although U.S. policymakers should rightly be concerned about regional hostility toward Japan, such concerns are not more worrisome than the crisis in the here and now, when an impoverished and increasingly des- perate North Korea might be tempted to sell nuclear materials to terrorists. Short of offensive military operations against Pyongyang, Japan has other means for defending itself from North Korean nuclear weapons independent of the United States. Japan has cooperated with the United States in the construction of an anti-ballistic missile system, but the further development and deployment of such a system need not depend on U.S. support. If active countermeasures for dealing with regional security threats were deemed insufficient, the Japanese might even take the fateful step of developing their own nuclear deterrent. 94 In short, a Japanese military, operating independent of the United States but still constrained by the pacifist impulses of the Japanese public, could prove a credible deterrent to offensive actions by North Korea against Japan proper and might also succeed in convincing the DPRK to abandon its nuclear ambitions, in contrast to U.S. economic and diplomatic pressure, which has been completely ineffective. Beyond the North Korean crisis, Japanese military power might prove instrumental for dealing with future serious challenges to the regional security order. 

**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Failure to address North Korea sparks adventurism and nuclear war </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dibb 6</span></span> (Sydney , IR professor at Australian National University, Morning Herald (Australia), August 15, 2006 Tuesday, As one nuclear flashpoint reaches a lull, another simmers away, Pg. 11, LN) jl 
[[#Prolif-North_Korea_conflict_causes_nucle]]In North Korea a similar situation applies. Having seen the destruction of Saddam's regime, North Korea's Kim Jong-il is intent on acquiring nuclear weapons to preserve his regime. But the end of the Cold War has eroded the influence of North Korea's allies over its military ambitions and sense of security. China has been embarrassed by its inability to restrain North Korea from testing nuclear-capable ballistic missiles and Russia no longer wields any influence over the rogue state. In many ways, the situation in North-East Asia is potentially even more dire than in the Middle East. North Korea's recalcitrance in dismantling its nuclear weapons program comes at a time of unprecedented tensions between China and Japan and South Korea and Japan where one false move could spell disaster. North Korea is playing a dangerous game of bellicose brinkmanship; it continues to keep more than a million troops on high-alert status, including heavy artillery concentrations only 50 kilometres from Seoul, a city of more than 10 million people. North Korea's acquisition of nuclear weapons threatens to seriously destabilise North-East Asia and result in a nuclear arms race developing there. As it is, the North's belligerence is encouraging Japan to build up its military capabilities. This at a time when China's poor relations with Japan are worrying. The Chinese communist leadership drums up anti-Japanese nationalism whenever it suits, while China's military build-up greatly concerns Japan. The pace of Beijing's defence spending is puzzling, particularly as China faces no military threat for the first time in many decades. Similarly, Japan's relations with South Korea are at a low point, partly over Japan's view of the history of World War II but also because of territorial disputes, which Seoul has elevated to the level of national pride, threatening the use of military force. This is occurring when, from Tokyo's perspective, South Korea is drifting from the orbit of the US alliance and getting uncomfortably close to China, as well as appeasing North Korea. All this is an unhealthy mix of great power tensions and deep-seated historical distrust and growing military capabilities. The bigger worry is that Pyongyang's adventurism will incinerate any efforts to stabilise a region full of dangerous rivalries, as will the inevitable collision between Iran and Israel in the Middle East.

**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">KOREAN WAR, EVEN IF LIMITED CAUSES EXTINCTION </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Hamel-Green 10</span></span> (Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267, AD: 9/11/10) jl
At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 

**THUS THE PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE ITS MILITARY PRESENCE FROM JAPAN.**


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">CONTENTION 3: SOLVENCY </span>**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Removing military presence allows Japan to further develop its SDF and stabilize East Asia—their turns are out-dated </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carpenter 2002</span></span> (Ted, Vice President for Defensce and Foreign Policy Studies@CATO, January 8, "Japan Takes a Modest Step Toward Global Security", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3364, accessed 9/14/10)jn
That limitation needs to end. Article 9, the "pacifist clause" in Japan's constitution, has outlived whatever usefulness it may have had when it was adopted at the insistence of the United States after World War II. Japan is the only major power that refuses to play a security role commensurate with its political and economic status. Even Germany, the other principal defeated power in World War II, has recently sent peacekeeping troops to the Balkans and has now agreed to send 3,000 combat personnel to participate in the war against bin Laden. Tokyo cannot forever confine its security role to one of cheerleading, financial subsidies and logistical support. The standard argument against Japan playing a more active military role is that it would upset its neighbors in East Asia. The nations of that region, it is said, still remember the outrages committed by imperial Japan during the 1920s and 1930s and would react badly to any manifestations of "Japanese militarism." But that argument oversimplifies reality. True, a few countries (most notably South Korea) are still paranoid about Japan. China also opposes any military role for Japan. Indeed, if Beijing had its way, the Japanese SDF would not even exist. But China's strident objections are self-serving; PRC officials realize that an active, assertive Japan would be a major obstacle to Beijing's own ambitions to become the dominant power in the region. Other East Asian countries are beginning to mute their objections to Japan playing a more active security role. Successive Australian governments have said that the time has come to bury the fears about renewed Japanese militarism. Singapore earlier this year offered Tokyo the use of its naval facilities -- a strong signal that it accepts the reality that Japan no longer poses a threat. Similar accommodating statements have been emanating from the Philippines over the past year. Those changes are gratifying. They show a recognition that the era of Japanese imperialism ended more than a half century ago, and that 21st century Japan bears no resemblance to the rapacious, expansionist Japan of that earlier era. Modern Japan is a conservative, status quo power that would be a stabilizing force against aggression, not a source of aggression. Japan needs to seize the opportunity afforded by the changing attitude of its neighbors. It is time for the SDF to play a realistic security role in East Asia and beyond. No rational person would object if Tokyo provided combat forces for the struggle against Osama bin Laden and his terrorists. It is time for Japan to fully rejoin the ranks of the great powers. And the United States needs to help with that transition. U.S. officials have not only allowed Japan to get away with free riding on the U.S. security guarantee, they have openly discouraged Japan from venturing beyond the status of being Washington's logistical helpmate. That attitude must be discarded. U.S. leaders ought to make it clear to Japan -- and to that country's neighbors -- that Washington no longer objects to Japan's playing a full-fledged security role. Indeed, the United States should state explicitly that it expects Japan to do so. 


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">No risk of your DA’s—U.S. forces don’t provide any positive influence in the region </span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhu 2000</span></span>(Zhiqun, Professor of Political Sciences and International Relations@Bucknell U, “America's Military Presence in Northeast Asia after the Cold War: Winning Without Fighting?” Institute for East Asian Studies, Vol. 12, No. 2, accessed from http://www.ieas.or.kr/vol12_2/chiqunzuh.htm, on 9/14/10)jn
For its critics, the U.S. military presence, especially the U.S.-Japan military alliance does not make much sense. Why should Japan, a rich and populous country, have to depend on 47,000 foreign military personnel to defend itself when it faces no obvious threats? And on the Korean peninsula, the South's GNP is at least 20 times that of the North. It is North Korea that often feels threatened by the power imbalance. Chalmers Johnson, a leading Japan scholar, argues that there is no reason for the United States to continue to spend more than $35 billion a year to maintain American troops in Japan and South Korea, both of which have the economic resources to support sufficient forces for their own defense.12) He believes that America's "outdated security policy does not encourage a healthier liberal democracy in Japan but instead strengthens reactionary, narrow-minded political leadership." Thus "only an end to Japan's protectorate status will create the necessary domestic political conditions for Japan to assume a balanced security role in regional and global affairs." To counter the argument that America's military withdrawal will create an arms race and instability in the region, Johnson urges the American people not to forget that the 1992 closing of America's two largest overseas bases, Clark Air Base and Subic Bay in the Philippines, "produced not even a shiver of instability." While some argue that American military protection makes the East Asian economic miracle possible, Johnson claims that East Asia's own invention of state-guided capitalism did more to overcome the communist threat than any military role played by the United States. Even before the fall of the Berlin Wall, some scholars argued that the fundamental challenge facing the United States was not Soviet military might, but the danger of economic insolvency, an eroding industrial base, and the growing American inability to compete with the newly formidable economic rivals, especially Japan, South Korea and Taiwan-the very allies that the U.S. had spent so much to protect. So the end of the Cold War has become the catalyst for a new American global role keyed to emerging economic and political realities rather than a declining military threat. The United States should focus on the economic dimensions of its security. They also contend that the U.S. military presence encourages a regional arms race and is perpetuating the division of unfinished civil wars between the two Koreas and between the PRC and Taiwan.13) As evidence of America's lack of a well-defined post-Cold War strategy, many government officials and scholars would or could not clearly name the source of threat. Though some scholars point to North Korea, very few would be willing to clearly identify China as a more dangerous threat, as Richard Bernstein and Ross Munro did in their controversial book.14) In fact, to avoid directly confronting China, the 1998 New Guidelines for Japan-U.S. Defense Cooperation refrains from clearly defining "situations in areas surrounding Japan" which the U.S.-Japan security system would cover if conflicts were to occur. To counter the argument that the massive American military presence must remain in East Asia because-among other reasons-it ensures the stability of the region, strengthens alliances and friendships, and even serves America's economic interests by opening foreign markets to U.S. products, one analyst argues out that these are all misleading. First, East Asia is better stabilized by economic interdependencies than by military forces. Second, the claim that huge concentrations of troops in small areas such as Okinawa strengthen friendships is absurd, as the 1995 rape case shows. And third, the American military presence does nothing to open Japanese or any other regional markets.15) Indeed, the United States has trade disputes with almost all the countries in the region and suffers from an unfavorable trade imbalance with almost all of them.

===Balancing Aff Politics Link Turns=== 
**Presence removal popular—viewed as expensive and obsolete from both sides**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bidgood 2010</span></span>(Jess, WBUR, “Frank and Paul: It’s not the Cold War Anymore”, July 14, http://www.onpointradio.org/2010/07/frank-and-paul, accessed 9/20/10)jn 
The people who drive Ron Paul-mobiles and the people who put Barney Frank stickers on their own cars don’t agree on a whole lot. But during today’s On Point, those two Congressman — the Tea Party icon and the blue state icon — joined together to argue that there’s one thing most Americans should agree on. It’s not the Cold War anymore, they said, and the U.S. military budget ought to reflect that. In a <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-barney-frank/why-we-must-reduce-milita_b_636051.html|co-authored op-ed]]</span> in the Huffington Post, the two argue that American military spending is out of control, based on a foreign policy better suited to defeating Communism than terrorism. In a time of record deficits, they say, the Pentagon’s $693 billion budget — with its two wars and military bases all over the world — is a drain on the U.S. economy. Frank and Paul’s argument is geopolitical. The American military budget expanded in light of perceived military threats from massive powers: the Axis during World War II and the rise of Communism in the post-War era. Frank says now the world doesn’t look the way it used to, but the U.S.’s continued presence on bases in Europe, Asia and all over the world suggests that its military presence (and corresponding expenses) has hardly changed. “We don’t have the Nazi’s, we don’t have the Soviet Union, but we are still spending as if our very national existence was in peril,” Frank said. “We have to differentiate between what we need to protect ourselves and what we volunteer to do because we’re going to be the world’s police officer.” Frank said U.S. military bases in Japan and South Korea are simply unnecessary, even in light of China’s expanding power. “American air power and sea power should be available to reassure people. Ground troops are irrelevant to that,” Frank said. Paul added that, in his view, American attempts overseas are exposing the country to unnecessary economic and military danger. “(The Soviet system) collapsed going into Afghanistan and their economy broke down,” Paul said, “That’s what we could face, and then we’ll come home under very difficult circumstances.” 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Turn—plan saves millions—Japan pays relocation** </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meyer 2009</span></span>(Carlton, Sergeant in US military, “Outdated U.S. Military Bases in Japan”, http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm, accessed 9/22/10)jn After his election, President Obama <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.boston.com/news/politics/politicalintelligence/2008/11/obama_vows_line.html|proclaimed:]]</span> "We cannot sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived their usefulness, or exist solely because of the power of a politicians, lobbyists, or interest groups. We simply cannot afford it." Downsizing the U.S. military presence in Japan is overdue. It would lessen political tensions, save the U.S. military millions of dollars a year, and shift a billion dollars in annual military spending and several thousand support jobs into the U.S. economy. Moreover, moving ships, aircraft, and military families out of the range of North Korean, Russian, and Chinese tactical missiles and aircraft would protect them from surprise attack. Unfortunately, Generals and Admirals instinctively dislike change, especially if it will close "their" bases. They will characterize this proposed downsizing as drastic, even though it would remove only around 10,000 of the 50,000 U.S. military personnel from Japan, close only two of six airbases, and leave two major naval bases and a dozen bases for ground forces. They will insist a detailed study is required, followed by years of negotiations. Meanwhile, Japanese and American corporations that benefit from the current arrangement will use their influence to sabotage the effort. This is how they have evaded demands to close Futenma and Atsugi. If they can stall for a couple of years, President Obama may lose interest, or possibly the 2012 election. If the President persists, the solution they devise will cost billions of dollars and a decade for new construction, environmental studies, and base clean ups. In reality, the U.S. military can implement this plan within two years because excess base capacity already exists. Since personnel are rotated every three years, it costs nothing to divert them elsewhere. The Japanese government would happily pay for any relocation and clean-up costs. Meanwhile, Americans are waiting to see if President Obama will show the courage to eliminate government waste by closing military bases "that have outlived their usefulness." 

**The deficit is the most important issue**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chalmes 7/2</span></span>(Jackie, New York Times, 2010, “White House Memo – Spend or Scrimp?”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/03/us/politics/03memo.html?_r=1, accessed 9/23/10)jn 
Mr. Obama’s antideficit talk has stoked a skittishness among Democratic lawmakers about adding to the deficit, the critics say, while his failure to campaign consistently for the stimulus measures he proposed in his <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/s/state_of_the_union_message_us/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|State of the Union address]]</span> and in the subsequent budget have allowed those proposals to languish in Congress. The president and his advisers “want economic stimulus but they fear the politics, especially in the Senate, are working against them,” said Roger Hickey, co-director of the liberal group Campaign for America’s Future. “But I think they’ve contributed to that climate of fear about deficits.” Last weekend at the G-20 conference, however, Mr. Obama and Mr. Geithner made a strong pitch for stimulus measures and took issue with Europeans’ plans to cut spending and raise taxes instead. According to administration officials, the president and his Treasury secretary figured the political risk back home of being seen as arguing against slashing deficits was less than the economic risk of another global downturn. In the United States, the administration’s ambivalence about promoting legislation to help create jobs, given public opposition to rising debt, reflects a shift from late last year when the economy, while recovering, was still shedding jobs. Then, officials say, it was the political advisers who told the economic team to come up with a big package of new and extended stimulus proposals. By February, in his annual budget Mr. Obama outlined $266 billion in “temporary recovery measures” to save or create jobs. But as antideficit fever built, and senators grew more nervous about another high-cost stimulus package, the White House advertised only about $100 billion of that. Now the entire agenda is in doubt. 

**Winners win—key to agenda**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rachman 2009</span></span>(Gideon, Financial Times, October 12, "Obama Must Start Punching Harder", http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/940c78c8-b763-11de-9812-00144feab49a.html?nclick_check=1, accessed 9/23/10)jn 
The notion that Mr Obama is a weak leader is now spreading in ways that are dangerous to his presidency. The fact that he <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/290f4efe-b4b3-11de-8b17-00144feab49a.html|won the Nobel Peace Prize]]</span> last Friday will not change this impression. Peace is all very well. But Mr Obama now needs to pick a fight in public – and win it with a clean knock-out. In truth, the Norwegians did the US president no favours by giving him the peace prize after less than a year in office. The award will only embellish a portrait of the president that has been painted in ever more vivid colours by his political enemies. The right argues that Mr Obama is a man who has been wildly applauded and promoted for not doing terribly much. Now the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/762f7ae6-b667-11de-8a28-00144feab49a.html|Nobel committee]]</span> seems to be making their point for them. The <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/ab7d63b0-b4c4-11de-8b17-00144feab49a.html|rightwing assault]]</span> on the president is based around a number of slogans that are hammered home with damaging frequency: Obama the false Messiah; Obama, the president who apologises for America; Obama, the man who is more loved <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/82fb8fc0-b50f-11de-8b17-00144feab49a.html|abroad]]</span> than at home; Obama, the man who never gets anything done; Obama the hesitant; Obama the weak. Of course, this is the kind of stuff that was always going to be hurled at a liberal, Democratic president by the Republicans. The danger for Mr Obama is that you are beginning to hear echoes of these charges from people who should be the president’s natural supporters. One leading European politician warns that Mr Obama is looking weak on the Middle East: “If he says to the Israelis ‘no more settlements’, there have got to be no more settlements.” And yet it is the White House, not the Israeli government, that has backed down. Even before the Nobel announcement, liberal American columnists were sounding increasingly sceptical about the man they once supported with such enthusiasm. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/10/05/AR2009100502783.html|Richard Cohen wrote in the Washington Post]]</span> that the president “inspires a lot of affection but not a lot of awe. It is the latter, though, that matters most in international affairs where the greatest and most gut-wrenching tests await Obama”. Now Saturday Night Live – the slayer of Sarah Palin – has turned its fire on President Obama, portraying him a do-nothing president. How has this impression built up? The promise of bold changes of policy on the Middle East and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/acea179e-aea6-11de-96d7-00144feabdc0.html|Iran]]</span> – without much to show for it – has not helped. The public agonising over policy towards <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/89737a84-85d5-11de-98de-00144feabdc0.html|Afghanistan]]</span> has been damaging. The slow pace of progress on <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/indepth/us-healthcare-reform|healthcare]]</span> has hurt. Even the president’s strengths can begin to look like weaknesses. His eloquence from a public platform has begun to contrast nastily with his failure to get things done behind the scenes. I winced when I heard him proclaim from the dais at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/a9ee6d6e-a853-11de-9242-00144feabdc0.html|United Nations]]</span> that “speeches alone will not solve our problems”. This, from a man who was due to give three high-profile speeches in 24 hours in New York. I winced again, when Muammer Gaddafi of Libya told the UN that he would be happy “if Obama can stay forever as the president”. Obviously, the gloom can be overdone. Mr Obama has been dealt a very difficult hand. He arrived in office when the entire global financial system was still shaking. The American economy remains in deep trouble. The president inherited two wars that were going badly and a deep well of international resentment towards the US. The Nobel committee’s decision was silly, but it reflected something real – the global sense of relief that the US now has a thoughtful, articulate president, who has some empathy for the world outside America. Mr Obama’s conservative critics might deride him as “Hamlet” because of his indecision over Afghanistan. But President Hamlet is still preferable to President George W. Bush. At least Mr Obama makes decisions with his head, rather than his gut. It is worth remembering that the presidency of Bill Clinton also got off to a very rocky start. Mr Clinton failed over healthcare, blundered around over <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/0165b000-b65c-11de-8a28-00144feab49a.html|gays in the military]]</span> (an issue that President Obama is now revisiting) and suffered military debacles in Somalia and Haiti. And yet he went on to be a successful president. Mr Obama has not yet suffered setbacks comparable to the early Clinton years – and he still has plenty of time to turn things around. But momentum matters. The president badly needs a quick victory or a lucky break. He also needs to show that, at least sometimes, he can inspire fear as well as affection. Mr Obama can charm the birds off the trees. He can inspire crowds in Berlin and committees in Oslo. But – sad to say – he also needs to show that he can pack a punch.
=== === 

==CHINESE MODERNIZATION AFF== 
===MODERNIZATION 1AC (GLENBROOKS)=== 
**GLENBROOKS 1AC**

PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SIGNIFICANTLY DECREASE ITS MILITARY PRESENCE FROM JAPAN.

**__CONTENTION 1 IS CHINA__**

**TENSIONS ARE HIGH IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA. U.S. ATTEMPTS AT CONTAINMENT THREATEN TO SPARK MISCALCULATION OVER CONTINUOUS DISPUTES. UNLESS THE U.S. REVERSES ITS ANTAGONISTIC POSTURE, CHINA WILL PUT NUCLEAR SUBS TO SEA.**
**Global-military.com, Oct. 8.**, 2010 http://www.global-military.com/china-will-deploy-nuclear-submarines-in-hainan-base-to-capture-sea-rights.html
Asahi News reported that the rise of economic power as China, Beijing began to actively protect its maritime interests. To this end, China is building bases in Hainan, and the nuclear-powered submarine will be here with the carrier. Once the base completed, there will be competition for the South China Sea China Sea right to offer an overwhelming advantage. Reported that after a recent collision over the Diaoyu Islands, Japan fishing boat captain detained in China, and Beijing’s unusually strong response on the matter, so that the Tokyo government by surprise. However, in the South China Sea, China’s growing confidence that the behavior is not uncommon. Southeast Asian countries want Washington to contain China’s rise, but now even the U.S. government has become a party to bear Beijing bold action. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.global-military.com/|South China Sea]]</span> including the Paracel and Spratly Islands, a number of countries including China claim sovereignty over the waters. In these waters, tension in China-related events are taking place almost daily. In mid-June this year, China and Vietnam, once the incident was a result of a dispute over fishing vessels, China has also detained Vietnamese fishing boats. Reported that the seizure of fishing vessels to strengthen its surrounding waters are not the only control strategy. Beijing has also strengthened its naval forces, including the construction of aircraft carriers. In addition, since the last century, 90 years, its also has many islands in the Spratly Islands in the construction of various facilities, or provide shelter for the fishermen, or for marine surveying. However, some facilities may also be used for military purposes. Reported that the Beijing government is taking measures to dispatch another fishery for large fishing fleet escort vessels to protect the fishing fleet. In particular, the busy fishing season, thousands of waters around the Nansha Islands Chinese fishing boats is not surprising. The presence of fishing boats to China and Malaysia friction. Obviously, the situation on the surrounding Southeast Asian countries are not satisfied, but these countries have not adopted tough measures to fight back in China, not even lodged a strong protest. In this regard, Malaysia’s marine Nazha Li, Senior Fellow, Khalid said that the national economy of the region as economic interdependence with China, so to avoid endangering regional peace and stability in the event is very important. Reported that the expansion of its maritime interests of China as a key reason for this is to ensure the economic growth needed to support its energy resources – Japan, China’s average annual economic growth of about 10%. South China Sea and East China Sea is rich in oil and other resources. Malacca Strait connecting the South China Sea is also an important sea lanes. With the soaring energy demand, as early as 1996, China has become a net importer of oil, and about 80% of the imported oil through the Strait of Malacca. Reported that China is currently building at Sanya, the southernmost tip of Hainan Island naval base, and the base will become the gateway into the South China Sea. Moreover, the report also pointed out that the base will deploy nuclear-powered submarines and aircraft carriers. Once the base completed, this will compete for the South China Sea China Sea right to offer an overwhelming advantage. Reported that although the U.S. has always been not involved in maritime disputes in Asia, but Washington found it increasingly difficult to ignore the interests of China’s expansion of its maritime powerful way. In addition to concern that China will have freedom of the sea on the development of an important sea lanes through the outside threat, a U.S. Defense Department report also noted that Washington fears could upset China’s military build-up the fragile balance of the South China Sea. The report also noted that the South China Sea coastal countries do not want one-on-one approach to dealing with China. They hope to include China in a multilateral framework similar to ASEAN, but also in the framework of which the United States. Now, Washington is trying to respond to the requirements of countries in Southeast Asia to contain China. Referring to the position of the United States in the South China Sea, a senior U.S. government official said that Washington is taking visible measures. In addition to meeting with the ASEAN actively put forward relevant issues, the United States also sent in August, “Washington” aircraft carrier visit to Vietnam. These moves make the Beijing government is quite disturbing. However, the ASEAN countries to Vietnam against their neighbors, worried about China, played down the effect of the U.S. effort.

**THE ARMS RACE IS UNDERWAY—CHINA IS AIMING FOR NAVAL MODERNIZATION BY 2020; ONLY SMART DECISIONS NOW CAN FORESTALL INEVITABLE ARMS RACES AND MISCALCULATION**
**The Straits Times**, <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Singapore) 11/10 [2010, lexis/nexis]</span>
But now, matters no longer look so reassuring. Like Europe of old, Asia is convulsed by the rise of some powers - such as [[#HIT_5]][[#ORIGHIT_5]]<span class="hit">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China</span>__**</span> and India - and the decline of others such as Japan. Asia too is also beset by unresolved territorial disputes and historic resentments. These are the classic conditions for a rather old-fashioned arms race. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There are also clear signs that some countries wish to establish spheres of influence.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Beijing recently called the South [[#HIT_6]][[#ORIGHIT_6]]<span class="hit">China</span> Sea a 'core interest' and objected to US-South Korean naval manoeuvres in the Yellow Sea, another hint that Beijing views it as part of its 'home' seas. </span>India is advancing the same claim to large swaths of the Indian Ocean. Arms races are invariably accompanied by the creation of such spheres of influence. And the current investment in military technology is of an entirely different magnitude. India's plans to produce 'fifth generation' fighter jets with Russia is matched by Japan and South Korea's involvement in the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter developed by the US, and the stealth bombers now constructed by [[#HIT_7]][[#ORIGHIT_7]]<span class="hit">China</span>. All are designed to achieve air superiority and penetrate deep into enemy territory. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rivalry at sea is even more keen. By 2020, [[#HIT_8]][[#ORIGHIT_8]]<span class="hit">China</span> is likely to have 78 attack [[#HIT_9]][[#ORIGHIT_9]]<span class="hit">submarines</span>, about the same as that of the other Asian nations put together, including those of Russia's Pacific Fleet. Virtually all will have long-range land-attack missiles, suggesting that their purpose is not just the defence of national shores.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Meanwhile, Japan is matching numbers with quality: its Soryu class of [[#HIT_10]][[#ORIGHIT_10]]<span class="hit">submarines</span> represents the new benchmark in available technology. </span>A Chinese aircraft carrier is in the works, and officials in Beijing are talking about eventually building five. This is still less than half of what the US Navy has. But every carrier is accompanied by many other surface ships, so the overall growth of the Chinese navy is phenomenal. Aircraft carriers are also, by definition, about projecting power; by the end of this decade, the movements of these Chinese behemoths - and the ports they chose for 'friendly visits' - will dominate security planning throughout Asia. Nor are they likely to be unchallenged. India is planning two more aircraft carrier groups. South Korea and Japan - which already have vessels capable of operating multiple helicopters - may follow suit. And Australia has unveiled plans to double its [[#HIT_11]][[#ORIGHIT_11]]<span class="hit">submarine</span> fleet. Meanwhile, all parties are investing heavily in missile defence technologies, largely to offset the numerical superiority of potential adversaries. Case in point: Taiwan is developing the 'Wan Chien' (Ten Thousand Sword) missile system capable of destroying airfields - a useful feature in the event of an air assault from the mainland. For decades, Asian countries relied on the import of military technologies from Russia and the West. No longer. All new defence projects now entail the transfer of technology to boost local production and know-how. The outcome is not one, but two arms races: A boost to existing arsenals, and a dash to develop newer technologies through indigenous means. Asia's arms race is no longer just fuelled by outside manufacturers; it is increasingly home- grown. And then, there is the race to outer space. [[#HIT_12]][[#ORIGHIT_12]]<span class="hit">China</span> is leading this, with the aim of acquiring the ability to paralyse US command and control systems in the event of a confrontation. India, too, is rushing into space, for fear of being left behind. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">None of this suggests that Asia is doomed to repeat the bloody experience of Europe, but the risks of miscalculations increase as weapons and new technologies pile up. For an arms race, once started, quickly acquires its own logic: Nations rush to trump each other and, since lead times for the production of new weapons are long, decisions made now will influence events for decades to come. The urge to overcompensate by building up arsenals is also fuelled by the fact that nobody knows how certain flashpoints may evolve.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> A botched succession in North Korea, for instance, could plunge the region into a crisis.</span>
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">US presence in Japan encourages rapid Chinese</span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;"> military modernization; WITHDRAWAL SOLVES </span></span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 10</span></span> (Sheila A., 6/5, Sr. Fellow Japan Studies at Council of Foreign Relations, http://two--plus--two.blogspot.com/2010/06/point-of-view-sheila-smith-more-mature.html) JL
The current tension between the United States and Japan comes as China’s expanding economy and military growth raise new questions about how Beijing intends to exert its rising influence. But some regional experts say that any American concerns are overdrawn. “China is not the threat the U.S. had made it out to be,” said Chalmers Johnson, president and co-founder of the Japan Policy Research Institute at the University of San Francisco. “It has too many internal problems to make going to war with other countries a good idea.” Instead, Johnson said, China’s rapid military growth is a reaction to the permanent American presence in Asia. If the U.S. military backed out of the region, Johnson said, China would slow its own military ambitions. Satoshi Morimoto, a professor at Takushoku University in Tokyo and a national security and international relations expert, said many Japanese also discount any potential Chinese threat. And that in turn has caused many to question the need for the U.S.-Japan military alliance in its current form. “[A] decrease in the public’s sense that China is a threat means there’s less of a belief in the need of the U.S. military presence in Japan,” he said. 
**OUR EVIDENCE IS REVERSE CAUSAL – PLAN CAUSES CHINESE DRAWDOWN OF MODERNIZATION**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eland in 3 </span></span>(Ivan, Former dir. Of defense policy studies at the Cato Institute, Policy Analysis, Is Chinese Modernization a Threat to the United States?, No. 265, p. 12-13) jl
Although many alarmist articles in the press have trumpeted improvements in the Chinese military, those enhancements are pockets of modernization in a largely antiquated force. China’s military modernization is more rapid than before but is not a massive Soviet-style military buildup. As the Chinese economy grows and China becomes a great power, the United States should accept that it, like other great powers, will want more influence over its region. If kept within bounds, that increased sphere of influence should not threaten vital U.S. interests. But the United States', especially under the Bush administration’s new expansive national security strategy of primacy and preemption, sees any change in the status quo in East Asia as a threat to its expansive list of vital interests. If the United States unnecessarily maintains, or even continues to expand, its defense perimeter to surround and contain China, the rising power and the status quo power—both armed with nuclear weapons—may come into needless conflict. The United States must take a less grandiose view of its vital interests, redraw its defense perimeter, abrogate its Cold War–era alliances (including the informal alliance with nonstrategic Taiwan), and reverse its military buildup. Currently, the United States is unnecessarily modernizing its armed forces faster than is China, which is starting from an extremely low level of military modernity. China, whose highest priority is economic development, is now reacting to the expansion of the U.S. defense perimeter and the U.S. military buildup by increasing its own defense budget more rapidly. Thus, U.S. policy may be engendering the threat it most fears. 
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">INDEPENDENTLY, Chinese modernization creates an overly aggressive MILITARY – CAUSES REGIME COLLAPSE</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krawitz 3</span></span> (Howard, research fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies, Dec, “Modernizing China’s Military: A High-Stakes Gamble?”, Strategic Forum, No. 204, Acc. Jul 29, 2009) jl
To understand the dilemma faced by the CCP and PLA, it is necessary to understand how military reform potentially undermines the very foundation upon which the PLA rests. Building a modern, world-class military means attracting and retaining relatively well-educated, comparatively sophisticated personnel capable of accepting responsibility and thinking for themselves. But this is not where PLA military tradition lies. Perhaps uniquely, when compared to any other modern major state, the PLA is not a central state military organization. It is the military organ of the CCP, dedicated to preserving and defending the party, not the state. The Party Central Military Commission (CMC), not the state Central CMC or the Ministry of Defense, exercises the equivalent of national command authority over most aspects of PLA operational, logistical, and support activities for warfighting and internal security operations. (China’s Ministry of Defense has authority only over non-operational training, some higher education, research and development, and certain infrastructure/construction activities in support of China’s national defense agenda.) This distinction may be blurred, or even inconsequential, in the PLA performance of its everyday duties and operations because commanders filling state and party military leadership positions have been one and the same in the PRC history to date. But it is a distinction that exists, is well understood by PLA cadre, and becomes meaningful in times of crisis, especially in cases of internal crisis. The primary PLA allegiance is to the party. It has always filled its ranks with politically dependable members drawn from those in Chinese society most willing to accept the party’s authority and most susceptible to manipulation through propaganda. Party-directed political education and indoctrination along with party discipline have been key elements in keeping Communist China’s armed forces from playing roles as “kingmakers” and power brokers. These elements remain essential aspects of PLA life and identity, even today. But politics and professionalism may not necessarily mix well. Taken to extremes, the side effects of the modernization process could foster an environment that weakens party loyalty and perhaps even creates an armed entity with loyalty to none save itself. Obviously, any move in this direction poses a serious conflict of interest for, if not an outright threat to, the CCP, which certainly wants China to have a strong, competent, respected military, but not at its own expense. For China’s leaders, the Indonesian military experience serves as a constant reminder of the possibilities for this sort of worst-case scenario.
**NUCLEAR WAR**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yee and Storey 2 </span></span>(Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 (The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, RoutledgeCurzon, pg 5) jl
The fourth factor contributing to the perception of a China threat is the fear of political and economic collapse in the PRC, resulting in territorial fragmentation, civil war and waves of refugees pouring into neighbouring countries. Naturally, any or all of these scenarios would have a profoundly negative impact on regional stability. Today the Chinese leadership faces a raft of internal problems, including the increasing political demands of its citizens, a growing population, a shortage of natural resources and a deterioration in the natural environment caused by rapid industrialisation and pollution. These problems are putting a strain on the central government's ability to govern effectively. Political disintegration or a Chinese civil war might result in millions of Chinese refugees seeking asylum in neighbouring countries. Such an unprecedented exodus of refugees from a collapsed PRC would no doubt put a severe strain on the limited resources of China's neighbours. A fragmented China could also result in another nightmare scenario - nuclear weapons falling into the hands of irresponsible local provincial leaders or warlords.'2 From this perspective, a disintegrating China would also pose a threat to its neighbours and the world.
**__ADV 1 IS CHINESE SUBMARINES__**

**CHINA IS INCREASING ITS SUBMARINE PATROLS BUT HAVE CONTAINED THEIR OPERATIONS TO EAST ASIA**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">ONI 9</span></span> (August 2009, (Office of Naval Intelligence, A Modern Navy with Chinese Characteristics, http://www.geopoliticaonline.com/?p=8222 , AD: 9/15/10) jl
(PDF) – Over the past decade, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) has carried out an impressive military modernization effort, providing the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLA(N)) with considerable technological capabilities. Recognizing that it takes more than technology to create a capable navy, China has also actively pursued the modernization of its doctrine, organization, and training with the ultimate goal of developing a professional force. Over the past year, the PLA(N) conducted several operations that demonstrated increased confidence and proficiency with real world missions in the Chinese littoral as well as in “distant seas.” Beijing’s ambition appears to remain focused on the East Asian region, with an ability to protect the PRC’s maritime interests in distant seas when required

**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">China has yet to put their new Subs on a Deterrent patrol. </span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kristensen 9</span></span> (Hans M., 2-3, 2009, FAS Strategic Blog, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2009/02/patrols.php|Chinese Submarine Patrols Doubled in 2008]]</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2009/02/patrols.php]]</span>, AD: 9/14/10) jl
Chinese attack submarines sailed on more patrols in 2008 than ever before, according to information obtained by Federation of American Scientists from U.S. naval intelligence.
The information, which was declassified by U.S. naval intelligence in response to a Freedom of Information Act request from the Federation of American Scientists, shows that China’s fleet of more than 50 attack submarines conducted 12 patrols in 2008, twice the number of patrols conducted in 2007.
China’s strategic ballistic missile submarines have never conducted a deterrent patrol.
Highest Patrol Rate Ever
The 12 patrols conducted in 2008 constitute the highest patrol rater ever for the Chinese submarine fleet. They follow six patrols conducted in 2007, two in 2006, and zero in 2005. China has four times refrained from conducting submarine patrols since 1981, and the previous peaks were six patrols conducted in 2000 and 2007 (see Figure 1).
While the increase is submarine patrols is important, it has to be seen in comparison with the size of the Chinese submarine fleet. With approximately 54 submarines, the patrol rate means that each submarine on average goes on patrol once every four and a half years. In reality, the patrols might have been carried out by only a small portion of the fleet, perhaps the most modern and capable types. A new class of nuclear-powered Shang-class (Type-093) attack submarines is replacing the aging Han-class (Type-091).
Few of the details for assessing the implications of the increased patrol rate are known, nor is it known precisely what constitutes a patrol in order for U.S. naval intelligence to count it. A request for the definition has <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2007/02/post_2.php|been denied]]</span>. It is assumed that a patrol in this case involves an extended voyage far enough from the submarine’s base to be different from a brief training exercise.
In comparison with other major navies, twelve patrols are not much. The patrol rate of the U.S. attack submarine fleet, which is focused on long-range patrols and probably operate regularly near the Chinese coast, is much higher with each submarine conducting at least one extended patrol per year. But the Chinese patrol rate is higher than that of the Russian navy, which in 2008 conducted only seven attack submarine patrols, the same as in 2007.
Still no SSBN Patrols
The declassified information also shows that China has yet to send one of its strategic submarines on patrol. The old Xia, China’s first SSBN, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2008/08/drydock.php|completed a multi-year overhaul]]</span> in late-2007 but did not sail on patrol in 2008.
The first of China’s new Jin-class (Type-094) SSBN was <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2008/04/new-chinese-ssbn-deploys-to-hainan-island-naval-base.php|spotted in February 2008]]</span> at the relatively new base on Hainan Island, where a new submarine demagnetization facility has been constructed. But the submarine did not conduct a patrol the remainder of the year. A JL-2 missile was test launched Bohai Bay in May 2008, but it is yet unclear from what platform.
Two or three more Jin-class subs are <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2007/10/two_more_chinese_ssbns_spotted.php|under construction]]</span> at the Huludao (Bohai) Shipyard, and the Pentagon projects that up to five might be built. How these submarines will be operated as a “counter-attack” deterrent remains to be seen, but they will be starting from scratch.
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">But they will</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ 9</span></span> (“China friend of Foe,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124001124687130799.html]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl
Analysts from the Federation of American Scientists who have examined satellite images of the Hainan base say it also appears to have a facility of the sort used by the U.S. Navy to demagnetize nuclear-missile submarines before they deploy, to make them harder to detect. If that were true, it would indicate China's intention to use its ballistic-missile submarines as an active part of its nuclear deterrent. The federation says that there is no evidence that China's previous generation of nuclear-missile-carrying submarine ever carried out a single deterrent patrol.
The Defense Ministry declined to comment. The latest defense white paper says that one of the navy's missions is "the capability of nuclear counterattacks."
**<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">MODERNIZATION SPECIFICALLY EFFECTS CHINESE SUBS – CAUSES DEPLOYMENT OF DETERRENT MISSIONS</span></span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Twomey 9 </span></span>(Christopher, co-directs the Center for Contemporary Conflict and is an assistant professor in the Department of National Security Affairs, both at the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California, Arms Control Association, Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs: Dangerous Dynamism, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism#Twomey)
China and the United States are not in a strategic weapons arms race. Nonetheless, their modernization and sizing decisions increasingly are framed with the other in mind. Nuclear weapons are at the core of this interlocking pattern of development. In particular, China is the only permanent member of the UN Security Council expanding its arsenal; it is also enhancing its arsenal. The basic facts of Chinese strategic modernization are well known, if the details remain frustratingly opaque. China is deploying road-mobile, solid-fueled missiles, giving it a heighted degree of security in its second-strike capability. It is beginning to deploy ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs). It is researching a wide range of warhead and delivery systems technologies that will lead to increased accuracy and, more pointedly, increased penetration against ballistic missile defenses. The size of China's deliverable arsenal against the United States will undoubtedly increase beyond the few dozen that it possessed recently.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism#1|[1]]]</span>[[#1e]] The pace of growth thus far has been moderate, although China has only recently developed reliable, survivable delivery systems. The final endpoint remains mired in opacity and uncertainty, although several score of deliverable warheads seems likely for the near term. These developments on the strategic side are coupled with elements of conventional modernization that impinge on the strategic balance.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism#2|[2]]]</span>[[#2e]]
The relevant issue, however, is not simply an evaluation of the Chinese modernization program, but rather an evaluation of the interaction of that modernization with U.S. capabilities and interests. U.S. capabilities are also changing. Under the provisions of START and SORT, the United States has continued to engage in quantitative reductions of its operational nuclear arsenal. At the same, there is ongoing updating of warhead guidance and fusing systems. Ballistic missile defense systems of a variety of footprints are being deployed. The U.S. SSBN force now leans more toward the Pacific than the Atlantic, reversing the Cold War deployment. Guam's capacity to support heavy bombers and attack submarines has been enhanced. Furthermore, advances in U.S. conventional weaponry have been so substantial that they too promise strategic effects: prompt global strike holds out the promise of a U.S. weapon on target anywhere in the world in less than an hour and B-2s with highly accurate weapons can sustain strategic effects over a campaign.
What are the concerns posed by these two programs of dynamic strategic arsenals? Most centrally, the development of the strategic forces detailed above has increasingly assumed an interlocked form. The U.S. revolution in precision guided munitions was followed by an emphasis on mobility in the Chinese missile force. U.S. missile defense systems have clearly spurred an emphasis on countermeasures in China's ICBM force and quantitative buildups in its regional missile arsenals.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism#3|[3]]]</span>[[#3e]] Beijing's new submarine-based forces further enhance the security of China's second-strike capability in the face of a potential U.S. strike but are likely to lead to increased attention to anti-submarine warfare in the United States. China's recent anti-satellite test provoked a U.S. demonstration of similar capabilities. Such reciprocal responses have the potential to move toward a tightly coupled arms race and certainly have already worsened threat perceptions on each side. The potential for conflict is not simply that of inadvertent escalation; there are conflicts of interests between the two. Heightening threat perceptions in that context greatly complicates diplomacy.
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">evelopment of deterrent missions makes crisis escalation inevitable</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 9</span></span> (Jeffrey, Dir. of Nuclear Strategy @ New America Foundation, July 2009, “Chinese Nuclear Posture and Force Modernization,” Nonproliferation Review, v. 16, iss. 2, informa) jl
Both of these views emphasize the role of nuclear weapons in deterring a deliberate attack. Yet the prospect that either a Chinese or U.S. political leader would initiate nuclear hostilities seems extremely remote. A very different concern is the possibility of an accident or miscalculation arising from the interaction of alert U.S. and Chinese forces. China’s strategic forces have been placed on alert only once, in 1969 during the Sino-Soviet crisis.24 Th is event remains confusing—Lin Biao, Mao’s heir apparent who would later die attempting to fl ee China, allegedly aft er a failed coup attempt against Mao, appears to have placed the Second Artillery on alert without going through established procedures. Th e event may have reinforced concerns within the Chinese leadership about the need to maintain control over the country’s nuclear forces. Today, however, China is changing rapidly. Chinese leaders will have an arsenal comprising new solid-fueled missile systems that maximize survivability by standing alert—either by placing mobile missiles in the fi eld or patrolling submarines at sea—and a vastly more professional military. Even if Chinese leaders do not keep forces on alert as a peacetime routine, in a severe crisis they may be tempted to raise the alert level of Second Artillery forces to demonstrate their resolve. Zhanyi Xue suggested such a course of action, calling it “anti-nuclear deterrence combat”—“ the military operation that shows our nuclear power and will.”25 Based on press reports of exercises, in a crisis China would disperse mobile ballistic missiles and fuel missiles in fixed sites.26 How would American policy makers react, especially if U.S. forces were placed on alert? Th e history of U.S. alert operations suggests that they have an inherent escalatory potential. In studies of the four U.S. DEFCON-3 or higher alerts, Scott Sagan found that orders were frequently misunderstood or ambiguous events misinterpreted to confirm the sense of crisis, and he concluded that “keeping the alert at the desired level will be extremely difficult, and the degree of further grave escalation uncertain.”27 The inherent risk is captured by President John F. Kennedy’s sardonic remark, upon learning that a U.S. U-2 plane had strayed into Soviet airspace during the Cuban Missile Crisis, that “There’s always some son-of-a-bitch who doesn’t get the message.”28 One can imagine, for instance, the potential for escalation if Chinese missile submarines put out to sea during a crisis. U.S. attack submarines would surely attempt to tail them. What would happen if two submarines collided? Or if the Chinese submarine suffered a crippling accident, like the torpedo explosion that sank the Russian submarine Kursk? Would Chinese policy makers, in a crisis atmosphere, be able to distinguish the loss of contact with submarines from early eff orts to eliminate their deterrent? How would U.S. policy makers react if China appeared to prepare mobile ballistic missiles that could perform antisatellite missions? Or anti-ship DF-21D missiles that, externally, are identical to China’s nuclear-armed DF-21 and DF-21As? 
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Chinese Deterrent Patrolling causes hair trigger alert and puts Subs in a “use-or-lose” situation – ENSURES nuclear escalation</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glosny 8</span></span> (Michael Glosny, Fellow @ John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies @ Harvard January 9, 2008 Wednesday, Federal News Service, SUBJECT: CHINA'S BOOMERS: IMPLICATIONS IF CHINA'S DETERRENT GOES TO SEA, Lexis) jl
MR. GLOSNY: Okay, I'm going to try to not get too technical here, but I think I'm going to get a little bit more technical than Mike just was.
The first thing I want to say is there's a lot we just don't know about the boomer force. But there are a few things we do know or know with a reasonable amount of certainty, and I want to talk about how two specific factors -- missile range and geographic situation -- are going to impact the way the PLA would put out a boomer force if it decides to put out a boomer force.
The first thing to say is the 094 clearly a vast improvement on the Xia class, on their former SSBN, that either never went out or went out in one deterrent patrol. And the JL-2 which is the missile that will eventually go on the 094 is about probably a four-fold increase in range over the current missile.
But what does that mean in practice? When a lot of people talk about what the 094 with the JL-2 means for U.S. security, there are a lot of people that talk about the Chinese in their own territory, in their own territorial waters in the Bohai Gulf or in the Yellow Sea, being able to attack the continental United States. This is in lots of newspaper articles and lots of places it shouldn't be. For instance, it's all the time it appears in Jane's which should know better. But there's a '99 piece in Jane's Missiles and Rockets that I'll pull out. It says, quote, "JL-2 has a maximum range of 8,000 kilometers. When deployed, it will allow Chinese SSBNs to target portions of the U.S. for the first time from operating areas located near the Chinese coast." I'm sure if you've read anything on 094, you've probably read that before.
In order for that statement to be true, based on what we know about the range, you need to stretch one of those two key concepts. You either need to stretch what counts as waters near the Chinese coasts, or you need to stretch what means portions of the United States.
After the very next sentence in this article is the SSBN, quote, "would only have to patrol just to the northeast of the Kurile Islands to put approximately 75 percent of the United States at risk." Now, that's a big difference between sitting in Chinese territorial waters and holding Washington at risk or having to go a very, very long way. We didn't bring a map, but if you look at a map, it's a very, very long way to go from Chindao out into the deep north Pacific.
MR. LEWIS: Mike, if I could just interrupt you. If you picked up a copy of one of my blog posts I printed out, it actually does have a said map.
MR. GLOSNY: Great. You do the self-promotion, too, I see. (Laughs.) So that is a very big difference, and I'll talk a little bit about what some of the implications of the range of the missile is. But if you leave this room knowing nothing else, know that the 094 with the JL-2 in Chinese territorial waters cannot hit the continental United States.
There is a follow-on missile which is going to be the sea-based version of the DF-31A which has a much longer range which could do so. And later in the Q&A or in the discussion, we can talk about what the implications for that are either for stability or for the U.S. Navy.
The second factor that we're even more sure of, right, the missile range that's based on DOD estimates of what the DF-31's range is, and it's been roundabout 8,000 kilometers. On the DF-31, it's been reduced to 7,250. But we're roughly sure that it's somewhere in that range. It would be very surprising if it came in at 10,000 kilometers or something like that. So we're pretty sure of that.
One thing we're really sure of is what the geographic situation is that China faces. If you look at where China is likely to be operating these submarines from, which is near Chindao, and then you look at what these patrol areas are that I'm talking about, which are very far east, very far east of the Kurile Islands, one thing you look at when you look at a map is there are very few ways for the Chinese to get there. There are essentially two major ways to get there. One would be going up north between Japan and South Korea through the Sea of Japan and then out. The other way would be to go south of Japan, sort of through Okinawa.
And what does this mean for ASW concerns? Well, it narrows the areas that these submarines could possibly be. So this serves as something of a queuing in terms of where we would be looking for these submarines. The other thing that Jeff points out in the piece that you have is it draws the comparison between that and what in the Cold War was called the Greenland-Iceland-U.K. gap, right. When the Soviet Union had to get their submarines out into the Atlantic, we set up a gap of passive sonars, of P-3s dropping sonobuoys of attack submarines, and the Soviet submarines had to get through this in order to get to the promised land on the other side.
Essentially, this is what this geography presents as a possibility, that in order for the Chinese SSBN to get out into that part of the world to launch, it would need to go through a similar type of gap. And although there's been a lot of discussion about how U.S. ASW has atrophied, much of this is focused on the idea of a small, diesel electric submarine operating in the coral shallow waters. What the geography means here, what the geography and the range of the missile mean is where the SSBN would need to go is not only through these gaps, that at least in the Cold War we were very good at setting up ASW bastions, but then would need to patrol in very deep water. And for those -- not to get too technical -- but for those that know a little bit about Cold War anti-submarine warfare, in deep water, sound propagates a lot longer, and it's a lot easier to make detections.So the missile range and the geography together essentially put the Chinese in a situation where they are far more constrained in how they would actually put this Boomer at sea if it wanted to, right. It limits how -- it sets a constraint on how quiet the submarine needs to be in terms of being survivable. If the submarine only needs to be in its own waters to launch, it doesn't need to be anywhere near as quiet as it does if it needs to go through a very long patrol through fairly good ASW barriers.
And this issue also impacts lots of other things like how many submarines they would need to have in order to be able to put submarines out in that deployed area. This is what, sort of, Air Force people call "the base loss factor," right -- the further you need to go, the more, overall, you need to have to get one out there at that point in time. This is also probably going to impact readiness rates and maintenance requirements. If a submarine only has to sit off its own waters, that mission is not as demanding as it is if you're having to transit as -- transit that far, so there's certainly a greater chance of breakdowns happening more often.
Furthermore, there's this loss of home field advantage that we hear about in terms of diesel submarines acting in the littorals and thinking of Chinese submarines acting around Taiwan. The Chinese submarines know the water around Taiwan very, very well -- they know where temperature changes happen; they know where salinity changes happen; they know how to hide, and where not to go.
They are far, far, far less familiar with these waters out in the North Pacific. And this means that it's far more likely that they will run into places where they'll make a lot more noise. It's also likely -- or not likely, but possible if you remember what the U.S.S. San Francisco did a couple of years ago, running into underground mountains that you didn't know were there because you're not familiar with the waters.
Another thing that this geography and missile range together, put a constraint on the way communications work. Communications are much easier with a submarine if it's right off your own waters. When it's further away, it's far more difficult. And then, lastly, it's going to be much more difficult to keep allies -- U.S. allies out of cooperating in this ASW fight than it would be if they were patrolling off their own waters.
If you look at, sort of, the two ways you get out to the North Pacific, you're pretty much going around Japan. So while it might be unlikely to think that Japan is going to fly P-3s off the Chinese coast -- and drop sono buoys off the Chinese coast and cooperate in ASW there, it's far more likely that they would cooperate in ASW as it's essentially coming through its own territory.
I'll just say one more quick thing and then I'll shut up. I'm equally very worried about crisis stability. The Navy's response to the SSBN seems to be, okay, there's this threat, what do we need to have to neutralize it, deal with it, or be able to keep these Boomers, if they go out, at risk? Some of these escalation concerns are similar to what debates that happened in the 1980s maritime strategy, right, in terms of escalation and whether or not both tracking, trailing and then prosecuting Soviet SSBNs would put the -- would provoke a situation where the crisis got out of control.
I would say those issues are here, but in spades, right. What we would essentially be doing is putting the Chinese in a use-it-or-lose- it situation, right. If you think of -- whatever your estimates are of the readiness rates, and how many they build, and how many they get out, we're not talking about a lot of submarines. So it's very likely that even just trailing them, and having a fire-control solution on them, would put them in a situation where they feel like they need to launch, or they lose the capability to launch.
And there are very good reasons, in terms of defensive national security, that would lead us to trail them all the time and know where they are. What I want to suggest is before asking that question, what force structure do we need to trail them, we also need to ask the other question of, what are the costs and risks that we're running by trailing them?
I would suggest that, for a country whose command-and-control and communications are not that well-developed -- and I'm sure we'll get into that; for a country whose understanding of escalation -- and what counts as escalation, and what counts as provocation we really don't fully understand, it seems like it might not be the best of idea to put their survivable nuclear weapons in a situation where they're using it or losing it. And I'll just stop.

**<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">EXTINCTION</span></span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Strait Times 0</span></span> (“No one gains in war over Taiwan,” LN) jl
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.
**THIS IS THE ONLY SCENARIO FOR US-CHINA WAR– MISCALCULATION OR ACCIDENTS MEANS US-CHINA WAR COULD QUICKLY ESCALATE TO EXTINCTION**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kissinger 5</span></span> (Henry, Former National Security Advisor and Secretary of State, China: Containment Can’t Work, Washington Post, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.catalunyaobe/|http://www.catalunyaobe]]</span> rta.net/files/imatges/B utlleti%2012/WP.pdf, AD: 9/15/10) jl 
China's emerging role is often compared to that of imperial Germany at the beginning of the 20th century, the implication being that a strategic confrontation is inevitable and that the United States had best prepare for it. That assumption is as dangerous as it is wrong. The European system of the 19th century assumed that its major powers would, in the end, vindicate their interests by force. Each nation thought that a war would be short and that, at its end, its strategic position would have improved. 
Only the reckless could make such calculations in a globalized world of nuclear weapons. War between major powers would be a catastrophe for all participants; there would be no winners; the task of reconstruction would dwarf the causes of the conflict. Which leader who entered World War I so insouciantly in 1914 would not have recoiled had he been able to imagine the world at its end in 1918? 
Another special factor that a century ago drove the international system to confrontation was the provocative style of German diplomacy. In 1900 a combination of Russia, France and Britain would have seemed inconceivable given the conflicts among them. Fourteen years later, a bullying German diplomacy had brought it about, challenging Britain with a naval buildup and seeking to humiliate Russia over Bosnia in 1908 and France in two crises over Morocco in 1905 and 1911. 
Military imperialism is not the Chinese style. Clausewitz, the leading Western strategic theoretician, addresses the preparation and conduct of a central battle. Sun Tzu, his Chinese counterpart, focuses on the psychological weakening of the adversary. China seeks its objectives by careful study, patience and the accumulation of nuances -- only rarely does China risk a winner-take-all showdown. 
It is unwise to substitute China for the Soviet Union in our thinking and to apply to it the policy of military containment of the Cold War. The Soviet Union was heir to an imperialist tradition, which, between Peter the Great and the end of World War II, projected Russia from the region around Moscow to the center of Europe. The Chinese state in its present dimensions has existed substantially for 2,000 years. The Russian empire was governed by force; the Chinese empire by cultural conformity with substantial force in the background. At the end of World War II, Russia found itself face to face with weak countries along all its borders and unwisely relied on a policy of occupation and intimidation beyond the long-term capacity of the Russian state. 
The strategic equation in Asia is altogether different. U.S. policy in Asia must not mesmerize itself with the Chinese military buildup. There is no doubt that China is increasing its military forces, which were neglected during the first phase of its economic reform. But even at its highest estimate, the Chinese military budget is less than 20 percent of America's; it is barely, if at all, ahead of that of Japan and, of course, much less than the combined military budgets of Japan, India and Russia, all bordering China -- not to speak of Taiwan's military modernization supported by American decisions made in 2001. Russia and India possess nuclear weapons. In a crisis threatening its survival, Japan could quickly acquire them and might do so formally if the North Korean nuclear problem is not solved. When China affirms its cooperative intentions and denies a military challenge, it expresses less a preference than the strategic realities. The challenge China poses for the medium-term future will, in all likelihood, be political and economic, not military. 
**__ADV 2 IS NAVAL POWER__**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Chinese Deterrent Patrols act as Flypaper – causes Submarine Overstretch</span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buff 6</span></span> (Joe, management consulting firm, Masters @ MIT, October 17, 2006, (Military.com, Will China Rule the Waves? Part Three, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.military.com/forums/0,15240,117048,00.html]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl 
2. On the other hand, Chinese SSBNs need not be very well protected or even very stealthy in order to be effective playing pieces in a grand scheme to diminish American clout and spread our SSN fleet dangerously thin. I suspect that China knows from Soviet experience in the Cold War that it's unlikely a communist SSBN can for very long avoid getting an American (or Royal Navy?) SSN in trail in the boomer's baffles. The job of the SSN is to destroy the SSBN promptly under certain contingencies related to possible thermonuclear war. But if even really good Chinese SSBNs can't avoid being followed by Western SSNs (to the extent such SSNs are available), why not go for not-so-good Chinese SSBNs with not-so-good sub-launched ballistic missiles? In reality, even one Chinese H-bomb warhead hitting the continental U.S. interior with a circular error probably of a wildly inaccurate 1,000 miles presents an unacceptable threat. In this way China can dilute the effectiveness of our fast-attacks on deployment without even firing a shot, by using one crappy SSBN as strategic flypaper for a superb SSN. 
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">China will undermine US Naval Dominance – crushes Hegemony</span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buff 6</span></span> (Joe, management consulting firm, Masters @ MIT, October 17, 2006, (Military.com, Will China Rule the Waves? Part Two, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.military.com/forums/0,15240,113783,00.html]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl 
One of the hardest facts to challenge or argue with regarding world history is that sea power is a key to global hegemony. Nautical and mercantile potency very closely interrelate, as do naval vigor and national security. Portugal, Spain, Holland, then France, each in their own day, thanks to their navies, were genuine superpowers. In some cases, their influence on the known world at the time is unexcelled even today. Yet each of them is now -- limiting ourselves to the outdated context of “empire” -- a minor shadow of their past. Napoleon's France, Hitler's Germany, and the Soviet Union each discovered the hard way that teeming, triumphant land armies alone are insufficient to retain control over even one continent. One can, alas, say the same thing about the UK: Britannia ruled the waves -- note the past tense. 
Though a definitive analysis of 500 years of European naval history would fill volumes, the causes of decline among these different former superpowers do show some common threads: complacency as to their vaunted place in the world, neglect of the need for ongoing vigorous sea power, and consequent under-funding of once mighty navies. The conclusion is that there's no reason ipso facto to just assume that American naval supremacy will simply go on forever unchecked. China's emergence as a rival must not be downplayed. In the perpetual game of hopscotch around the globe contesting “who's the boss?” in nautical terms, the mantle America currently holds might be dropped, or snatched from our hands. 
**SUBMARINES ARE KEY TO EFFECT DEPLOYMENT OF HARD POWER**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spencer 0</span></span> (Jack, bachelor's degree in international politics from Frostburg State University and his master's degree from the University of Limerick in Ireland, "Why Cutting the Submarine Fleet Will Seriously Threaten National Security.". Heritage Foundation, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/nationalsecurity/bg1374.cfm]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl
[[#pgfId-1083830]]The National Security Imperative. A fleet of robust attack submarines is imperative in today's world. In war, especially in the far regions of the world where the United States has vital national interests, forward-deployed attack submarines can mount the first line of defense against advancing enemy forces. They can prevent the enemy from gaining an early stronghold and make it easier for the arriving U.S. forces to establish control.
[[#pgfId-1083831]]The SSN also is able to monitor activities in regional hot spots. No other U.S. military asset can lurk undetected for long periods off the coast of a potential enemy, tap underwater communications lines and intercept communications signals, observe military activities, and strike with pinpoint accuracy when necessary. The information the SSN gathers can be useful in preparing U.S. troops for war, monitoring weapons proliferation and testing, assessing the strength of enemy forces, evaluating political situations, and analyzing terrorist activities.
[[#pgfId-1083832]]The attack submarine is a powerful deterrent to war. A strong submarine fleet tells the world that the United States is committed to peace and stability throughout the world and that it will act quickly to dominate aggressors that try to upset that stability. In joint exercises, the fleet demonstrates America's commitment to a region's stability. In the past, the Pacific Fleet has conducted exercises with nations as diverse as Japan, India, South Korea, the Philippines, and Australia.
[[#pgfId-1083833]]The versatility of the SSN attack submarine makes it an essential asset of the U.S. military, but that versatility also means that its missions will be diverse, from warfighting to intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR).
[[#pgfId-1083834]]Warfighting. The key strategic value of attack submarines is that they can be the first military assets to reach a theater of combat and can remain there largely undetected for an indefinite period. They are invulnerable to anti-ship cruise missiles.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/06/Why-Cutting-the-Submarine-Fleet-Will-Seriously-Threaten-National-Security#pgfId-1083837|11]]</span> As those weapons proliferate and become more precise, the vulnerability of the U.S. Navy's surface ships will increase, which makes the stealthy SSNs even more important to the military's future defense structure. Moreover, SSNs can destroy the weapons and systems of aggressors that target the Navy's surface ships and airplanes, which makes it safer for them to move into a theater of combat. Finally, unlike land-based units and surface ships, the SSN is self-contained and therefore is not vulnerable to chemical or biological attack.
[[#pgfId-1083838]]A realistic number of SSNs needed to fight a major regional conflict (for example, in Korea or the Middle East) is 25. Some of these submarines would be engaged in Tomahawk missile strikes; some would be used to insert special operations forces into an area to conduct clandestine operations behind enemy lines while others would be laying minefields, conducting intelligence and reconnaissance, engaging enemy submarines, and protecting U.S. surface ships.
[[#pgfId-1083839]]Military commanders require a minimum number of forward-deployed forces in regional hot spots at all times. Assuming that the minimum requirement is being met (which today, with the shrinking U.S. force, is not always the case), attack submarines would be deployed at the outset of hostilities to mine harbors, launch cruise missile strikes against power grids and air defense assets, and sink enemy surface ships and submarines. These early actions will ease the burden on other U.S. forces as the battle unfolds and will ensure fewer American casualties.
**SUBMARINES ALLOW NAVAL ACCESS AND CONVENTIONAL STRIKE CAPABILITIES – THAT SOLVES WAR**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lexington Institute 3</span></span> ("Submarines - Weapons of choice in future warfare." LEXINGTON INSTITUTE 31 Dec. 2003, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.timesnemesis.com/pdf/military/Submarines_Weapons_of_the_Future.pdf]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl
Deterrence is often thought to be best served by the presence of highly visible military forces. But the best movie directors have long known that the greatest suspense is created when an audience cannot see what it fears. In the prelude to any conflict, a potential adversary knows that America may well have a virtually undetectable submarine lurking off its shores, ready to make the opening moves in a counter or pre-emptive attack. Because it is capable of total surprise in an initial strike, today’s submarines armed with Tomahawk cruise missiles can attack sensitive and strategically important mobile or movable targets, such as command and control and stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction. They can also serve as key enablers of follow-on air forces by attacking surface-to-air missile sites and other defenses. In a very short time, a covert submarine attack can substantially degrade an adversary’s ability to mount a defense. This capability against time-sensitive targets could be enhanced by the deployment of tactical, semi-ballistic missiles on nuclear submarines. In addition to the surprise factor of launch from a submarine, this type of weapon (discussed in more detail below) has the speed to reach a target several hundred miles inland in a matter of minutes. Although strike options such as these momentarily reveal a submarine’s presence, other initial enabling missions allow a submarine to remain covert and conduct operations during the pre-hostilities phase of conflict, potentially deterring further action. These missions are particularly important in littoral environments. They include tracking adversary submarines and mapping mine fields. Swiftly Defeat Aggression Once a decision is made to go to war, submarines can engage in the type of clandestine early attacks needed by follow-on forces such as discussed above. They protect surface ships by neutralizing underwater threats like enemy submarines and mines, and by targeting enemy surface vessels with heavyweight torpedoes. Perhaps just as important, they serve as a base for special operations forces tasked with generating targeting data, seeking weapons of mass destruction and/or gathering intelligence on ground forces. By assuring freedom of the seas, the submarine fleet can solve a major portion of the access-denial problem. “In short,” summarized the Congressional Budget Office, “if naval forces as a whole represent the vanguard of U.S. military power – preparing the path and securing the beachheads for much larger ground and air forces in areas where they do not have access to land bases – then submarines may be key to clearing the way for other naval forces that are more vulnerable to an enemy’s access-denial strategy.”5 
**NAVAL POWER IS CRITICAL TO U.S. POWER PROJECTION**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stratfor 7</span></span> (Security Organization/Think Tank, April 10th, “The Limitations and Necessity of Naval Power”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/limitations_and_necessity_naval_power]]</span>, AD: 9/15/10) jl
The argument for slashing the Navy can be tempting. But consider the counterargument. First, and most important, we must consider the crises the United States has not experienced. The presence of the U.S. Navy has shaped the ambitions of primary and secondary powers. The threshold for challenging the Navy has been so high that few have even initiated serious challenges. Those that might be trying to do so, like the Chinese, understand that it requires a substantial diversion of resources. Therefore, the mere existence of U.S. naval power has been effective in averting crises that likely would have occurred otherwise. Reducing the power of the U.S. Navy, or fine-tuning it, would not only open the door to challenges but also eliminate a useful, if not essential, element in U.S. strategy — the ability to bring relatively rapid force to bear.
There are times when the Navy’s use is tactical, and times when it is strategic. At this moment in U.S. history, the role of naval power is highly strategic. The domination of the world’s oceans represents the foundation stone of U.S. grand strategy. It allows the United States to take risks while minimizing consequences. It facilitates risk-taking. Above all, it eliminates the threat of sustained conventional attack against the homeland. U.S. grand strategy has worked so well that this risk appears to be a phantom. The dispersal of U.S. forces around the world attests to what naval power can achieve. It is illusory to believe that this situation cannot be reversed, but it is ultimately a generational threat. Just as U.S. maritime hegemony is measured in generations, the threat to that hegemony will emerge over generations. The apparent lack of utility of naval forces in secondary campaigns, like Iraq, masks the fundamentally indispensable role the Navy plays in U.S. national security.
That does not mean that the Navy as currently structured is sacrosanct — far from it. Peer powers will be able to challenge the U.S. fleet, but not by building their own fleets. Rather, the construction of effective anti-ship missile systems — which can destroy merchant ships as well as overwhelm U.S. naval anti-missile systems — represents a low-cost challenge to U.S. naval power. This is particularly true when these anti-ship missiles are tied to space-based, real-time reconnaissance systems. A major power such as China need not be able to mirror the U.S. Navy in order to challenge it.
Whatever happens in Iraq — or Iran — the centrality of naval power is unchanging. But the threat to naval power evolves. The fact that there is no threat to U.S. control of the sea-lanes at this moment does not mean one will not emerge. Whether with simple threats like mines or the most sophisticated anti-ship system, the ability to keep the U.S. Navy from an area or to close off strategic chokepoints for shipping remains the major threat to the United States — which is, first and foremost, a maritime power.
**MILITARY POWER KEY TO PRIMACY**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Layne and Thayer 6</span></span> (Christopher and Bradley, American Empire: A Debate) jl
Another critical question is not simply how much the United States spends on defense but what benefits it receives from its spending: “Is the money spent worth it?” The benefits of American military power are considerable, and I will elaborate on five of them. First, and most importantly, the American people are protected from invasion and attack. The horrific attacks of 9/11 are—mercifully—an aberration. The men and women of the U.S. military and intelligence community do an outstanding job deterring aggression against the United States. Second, American interests abroad are protected. U.S. military power allows Washington to defeat its enemies overseas. For example, the United States has made the decision to attack terrorists far from America’s shores, and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. Its military power also gives Washington the power to protect its interests abroad by deterring attacks against America’s interests or coercing potential or actual opponents. In international politics, coercion means dissuading an opponent from actions America does not want it to do or to do something that it wants done. For example, the United States wanted Libya to give up the weapons of mass destruction capabilities it possessed or was developing. As Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz said, “I think the reason Mu’ammar Qadhai agreed to give up his weapons of mass destruction was because he saw what happened to Saddam Hussein.”21 Third, our allies like Australia, Great Britain, Japan, Kuwait, Israel, and Thailand are protected by American military might and so we are able to deter attacks against them. They are aligned with the United States, and thus under its “security umbrella”—any attack on those states would be met by the military power of the United States. Other states know this and, usually, that is sufficient to deter aggression against the allies of the United States. Fourth, as political scientist Barry Posen has argued, military power gives the United States control over the global “commons,” the command of the sea, air, and space, that allows it effectively to project its power far from its borders while denying those areas to other countries if it so chooses.22 That is significant because the sea lanes, airspace, and space act as a major force multiplier for the United States, allowing Washington to exploit better its own economic and military resources and those of its allies while at the same time hindering its enemies. For example, control of the world’s oceans provides the United States with the ability to move heavy forces to trouble spots such as the Persian Gulf or Korea and ensure that key resources, like oil, may travel to world markets. Command of space gives the United States control of the ultimate “high ground.” The United States owns about half of the approximately three hundred active satellites in the Earth’s orbit. Its intelligence satellites allow it to spy on the rest of the world; its navigation satellites guide its forces; and its communications satellites give Washington the ability to command forces worldwide. Fifth, the military power of the United States gives it great influence in international politics. This influence comes in several forms, one of which is the U.S.’ ability to create favorable conditions in international politics, such as by securing access to key regions of the world like the Persian Gulf. Often the United States does this by creating global partnerships for action. As a general rule, these partnerships are easy to create because most states want to cooperate with the United States, leading to broad partnerships with like-minded states to advance common interests.
**THAT PREVENT MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR NUCLEAR WAR – ALL THEIR IMPACT ARE MORE LIKELY IN A WORLD WITHOUT AMERICAN PREDOMINANCE**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 7</span></span> (Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Policy Review, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>) jl
Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as “No. 1” and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic. It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not only on the goodwill of peoples but also on American power. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe ’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. Conflicts are more likely to erupt if the United States withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 


==ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP ADVANTAGE== 
GLOBALIZATION IS IN REVERSE—THE FINANCIAL CRISIS HAS DEVELOPING NATIONS SECOND GUESSING THE FREE MARKET MODEL RISKING PROTECTIONISM AND COLLAPSING U.S. HEGEMONY 
Altman 2009(Roger, Chair and CEO of Evercore Partners, Former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary, Foreign Affairs, “Globalization in Retreat,” July/August, accessed from http://www.viet-studies.info/kinhte/globalization_in_retreat_FA.htm, accessed 1/26/11)jn
Second, globalization is in retreat, both in concept and in practice. Much of the world now sees it as harmful. Those nations, especially developing ones, that embraced increased capital flows and open trade have been particularly injured. Those that insulated themselves, such as India, have been less scarred. The global spread of goods, capital, and jobs is reversing. Global exports are falling sharply. The World Bank reports that exports from China, Japan, Mexico, Russia, and the United States fell by 25 percent or more in the year leading up to February 2009. Capital flows are plunging, too. Emerging markets are projected to receive only $165 billion in net positive capital inflows this year, down from $461 billion in 2008. Furthermore, financial and trade protectionism are spreading. Both the World Bank and the World Trade Organization recently reported a movement toward higher tariffs, higher nontariff barriers, and an increase in antidumping actions, designed to protect domestic jobs. Brazil, India, Russia, and numerous other states were cited. Moreover, various states’ fiscal stimulus plans include subsidies for exporters and “buy domestic” provisions. And discriminatory actions against foreign workers are spreading. Immigrant workers, who are particular victims of this crisis, are returning home in waves. Japan and Spain are offering them cash to leave, and Malaysia is forcing them out. Third, the world may be entering a new global phase marked by less leadership, less coordination, and less coherence. The world was already moving away from its post–Berlin Wall, unipolar condition, but this crisis has accelerated that process. The United States has turned inward, preoccupied with severe unemployment and fiscal pressures. Its economic model also is now out of favor. President Obama has made a triumphant overseas tour and is hugely popular everywhere. But his attention and political capital must be reserved for domestic issues, such as stabilizing the banking industry, handling the budget, and reforming health care. Other nations have been rising, especially China. Although the United States’ capacity to lead is now diminished and will continue to be so over the medium term, none of these rising powers is capable of full leadership. The outlook for effective multilateral approaches is also cloudy. The G-7 and the G-20 are relatively ineffective, as evidenced by the recent London summit. Yes, the IMF was expanded there, and that is important, but on the more challenging issues—a coordinated global stimulus, global financial oversight, and Afghanistan—the summit failed. Fundamentally, the G-7 is an anachronism— China is not a member—and the G-20 is too large. On urgent political matters, such as Iran and the Arab-Israeli conflict, multilateralism is in retreat. The economic crisis is requiring most nations, including the United States, to focus inward. Also, other nations’ responsiveness to U.S. initiatives has been muted. The case of Pakistan makes that clear: a failed state with nuclear weapons would threaten many nations, and yet only U.S. diplomacy is fully active there. 

COLLAPSE OF US ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP CAUSES AMERICA TO RETREAT GLOBALLY – THAT CAUSES A POWER VACUUM THAT GOES NUCLEAR
Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8(Aaron, Professor of Politics and IR @ Princeton, and Gabriel, Senior Editor @ The Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. 

AND Economic leadership prevents global economic collapse – resiliency is inevitable unless US influence collapses 
Mandelbaum 2005(Michael, Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195)
Although the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood that a nuclear shot would be fired in anger somewhere in the world, counted as the most serious potential consequence of the abandonment by the United States of its role as the world's government, it was not the only one. In the previous period of American international reticence, the 1920s and 1930s, the global economy suffered serious damage that a more active American role might have mitigated. A twenty-first-century American retreat could have similarly adverse international economic consequences. The economic collapse of the 1930s caused extensive hardship throughout the world and led indirectly to World War II by paving the way for the people who started it to gain power in Germany and Japan. In retrospect, the Great Depression is widely believed to have been caused by a series of errors in public policy that made an economic downturn far worse than it would have been had governments responded to it in appropriate fashion. Since the 1930s, acting on the lessons drawn from that experience by professional economists, governments have taken steps that have helped to prevent a recurrence of the disasters of that decade.' In the face of reduced demand, for example, governments have increased rather than cut spending. Fiscal and monetary crises have evoked rescue efforts rather than a studied indifference based on the assumption that market forces will readily reestablish a desirable economic equilibrium. In contrast to the widespread practice of the 1930s, political authorities now understand that putting up barriers to imports in an attempt to revive domestic production will in fact worsen economic conditions everywhere. Still, a serious, prolonged failure of the international economy, inflicting the kind of hardship the world experienced in the 1930s (which some Asian countries also suffered as a result of their fiscal crises in the 1990s) does not lie beyond the realm of possibility. Market economies remain subject to cyclical downturns, which public policy can limit but has not found a way to eliminate entirely. Markets also have an inherent tendency to form bubbles, excessive values for particular assets, whether seventeenth century Dutch tulips or twentieth century Japanese real estate and Thai currency, that cause economic harm when the bubble bursts and prices plunge. In responding to these events, governments can make errors. They can act too slowly, or fail to implement the proper policies, or implement improper ones. Moreover, the global economy and the national economies that comprise it, like a living organism, change constantly and sometimes rapidly: Capital flows across sovereign borders, for instance, far more rapidly and in much greater volume in the early twenty-first century than ever before. This means that measures that successfully address economic malfunctions at one time may have less effect at another, just as medical science must cope with the appearance of new strains of influenza against which existing vaccines are not effective. Most importantly, since the Great Depression, an active American international economic role has been crucial both in fortifying the conditions for global economic well-being and in coping with the problems that have occurred, especially periodic recessions and currency crises, by applying the lessons of the past. The absence of such a role could weaken those conditions and aggravate those problems. The overall American role in the world since World War II therefore has something in common with the theme of the Frank Capra film It's a Wonderful Life, in which the angel Clarence, played by Henry Travers, shows James Stewart, playing the bank clerk George Bailey, who believes his existence to have been worthless, how life in his small town of Bedford Falls would have unfolded had he never been born. George Bailey learns that people he knows and loves turn out to be far worse off without him. So it is with the United States and its role as the world's government. Without that role, the world very likely would have been in the past, and would become in the future, a less secure and less prosperous place. The abdication by the United States of some or all of the responsibilities for international security that it had come to bear in the first decade of the twenty-first century would deprive the international system of one of its principal safety features, which keeps countries from smashing into each other, as they are historically prone to do. In this sense, a world without America would be the equivalent of a freeway full of cars without brakes. Similarly, should the American government abandon some or all of the ways in which it had, at the dawn of the new century, come to support global economic activity, the world economy would function less effectively and might even suffer a severe and costly breakdown. A world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.

Loss of US influence means the next crisis causes nuclear war 
Mandelbaum 2005(Michael, Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224] 
At best, an American withdrawal would bring with it some of the political anxiety typical during the Cold War and a measure of the economic uncertainty that characterized the years before World War II. At worst, the retreat of American power could lead to a repetition of the great global economic failure and the bloody international conflicts the world experienced in the 1930s and 1940s. Indeed, the potential for economic calamity and wartime destruction is greater at the outset of the new century than it was in the first half of the preceding one because of the greater extent of international economic interdependence and the higher levels of prosperity—there is more to lose now than there was then—and because of the presence, in large numbers, of nuclear weapons.

ENDING THE BASING DISPUTE IS KEY TO CONTINUING FREE TRADE NEGOTIATIONS WITH JAPAN
Nikkei Weekly 2010 (“Futenma tying down government”, 5-24, Lexis)
Equally worrying, the Futenma mess is hampering Japan's economic diplomacy. Last summer's DPJ election manifesto said a DPJ government would push for free-trade agreements with other Asia-Pacific nations, including the U.S. Although FTA talks with South Korea have begun, they are making little progress. As for the launch of talks with the U.S., a senior official with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said flatly: "This is not the time for that." He cited the Futenma impasse. Ministers that deal with FTAs - including Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Hirotaka Akamatsu and Finance Minister Naoto Kan - have met several times since autumn to discuss the negotiations with South Korea and other nations. But government officials lament the lack of movement. "The discussions have produced a great deal of noise," one said, "but no concrete strategy has yet been worked out." The DPJ manifesto also promised cooperation with other nations in the Asia-Pacific on trade, finance and energy, but no specific steps have been taken so far. The U.S.-Japan rift and Japan's inability to move forward on economic diplomacy are casting a deep shadow over the country's relations with other Asian nations, which Hatoyama tried to make a centerpiece of his foreign policy. One official from a major Asian country has derided Hatoyama's proposed East Asian community, saying the prime minister is perhaps too genteel to understand certain realities. Hatoyama is scrambling to flesh out his East Asian community plan, but officials in charge of the matter say the proposals are unlikely to amount to more than a repackaging of existing programs, such as personnel exchanges and cooperation in disaster prevention. All of which puts the Hatoyama government in diplomatic quicksand. The deadlock over Futenma is not only undermining the Japan-U.S. alliance, it is also hampering Japan's broader diplomatic agenda. The only way out of the mud is for the government to reaffirm the importance of the bilateral alliance and clarify its entire national security policy. 

THAT MAKES THE DOHA TALKS AND U.S. PROMOTION OF FREE TRADE CREDIBLE 
Bergsten 2004 (C. Fred, Peterson Institute for International Economics ,“The Resurgent Japanese Economy and a Japan–United States Free Trade Agreement,” 5-12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/paper.cfm?ResearchID=208]]</span>)
Both Japan and the United States have dramatically reversed their trade policies in recent years. Both have traditionally been strong advocates of the multilateral trading system, rejecting preferential pacts and criticizing those adopted by the European Community and others. Both, however, have now begun aggressive programs of regional and bilateral liberalization. The United States started with Canada in 1988 and NAFTA in 1994. It has recently completed agreements with 10 more countries (including five in Central America) and is now negotiating actively with about 10 more. It is also seeking a Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA) with 34 nations in the Western Hemisphere. Japan has completed only one bilateral agreement, with Singapore, but is actively pursuing several others (Korea, Mexico, Thailand, Malaysia, and the Philippines) as well as a regional initiative with ASEAN. It is also involved in officially sanctioned studies of a comprehensive East Asia Free Trade Area (the “10 + 3” initiative), or EAFTA, with ASEAN, China, and Korea. These American and Japanese initiatives will have important effects on trade flows, and trade relations, between them. NAFTA already discriminates significantly against Japan and was a major motivation for Japan to launch its FTA effort with Mexico. US pursuit of FTAs elsewhere in Asia, already with Thailand but potentially (as advocated by several key Senators and Congressmen) with Korea and even Taiwan, would have much greater impact on Japan and virtually force Japan to seek its own FTA with the United States. Likewise, any Japanese FTAs with major Asian countries would have sizable repercussions on the United States and induce it to seek equal treatment. A comprehensive EAFTA would immediately cost the United States about $25 billion annually in lost exports with much more to follow as investment was diverted to the region. Even a Japanese bilateral deal with Korea, a major trading partner of the United States, would probably be significant enough to induce the United States to seek equal treatment. Hence there is a strong case for Japan and the United States, as they pursue their numerous bilateral FTAs with other countries, to anticipate these developments and to avoid the increasingly serious frictions that will otherwise affect their relationship, by launching a bilateral FTA negotiation themselves. Such an initiative, which could be labeled a “barrier-free economic relationship” like the one that the Trans-Atlantic Business Dialogue is seeking for the Europe–United States economic relationship, would also have numerous positive effects. For Japan, the straightforward economic benefits of an FTA with the United States would be considerable; a recent study for the Institute for International Economics by Scott Bradford and Robert Lawrence (Has Globalization Gone Far Enough?) shows gains of about 3 percent of total Japanese GNP from any initiatives that could produce convergence between its high prices and the much lower levels that prevail in the United States and other industrial countries. In addition, the insurance policy represented by assured access to the US market would be a major plus for Japanese exports; America’s recent safeguard tariffs on steel, for example, hit Japan but exempted FTA partners Canada and Mexico. Another major plus for Japan would be the provision of an economic counterweight to China through reaffirmation of the security relationship with the United States. Indeed, the renewed US focus on relations with Japan that would be implied by a bilateral FTA would represent decisive rejection of the “bypass Japan” strategy that so many Japanese now fear from the United States because of the rise of China. These factors should be politically powerful enough in Japan to enable it to finally overcome domestic resistance to liberalization of agriculture, along with key services sectors, both of which would surely be required by the United States to conclude such an FTA. More generally, genuine opening to the United States would greatly enhance the pressures of competition on the Japanese economy, both generating the huge economic benefits noted above (adding a full 3 percent to the level of GDP) and reinforcing the current reforms that are beginning to revitalize its prospects. For the United States, there would be enormous gains in pursuing an FTA to address “behind the border” barriers to true market access in numerous sectors in Japan. For the American Congress, an FTA with a major trading partner—especially a large purchaser of agricultural products—would be far more attractive than the currently planned agreements with Bahrain, the Dominican Republic, or even Thailand. Such an agreement would provide an enormous boost to United States Trade Representative Robert Zoellick’s strategy of “competitive liberalization” and a major boost to reviving the Doha Round of multilateral liberalization in the World Trade Organization by raising the alternative specter of major trade discrimination emanating from the world’s two largest economies. On the geopolitical side, an FTA with Japan would of course strengthen the most important US alliance in the region and help sustain domestic political support for American engagement in Asia. For both countries, the opportunity to implement a new dispute settlement mechanism (à la NAFTA) would hold considerable promise. Such an agreement, along with several smaller transpacific FTAs (including Australia–United States, Japan-Mexico and Chile-Korea) could also provide a spur to the currently moribund APEC prospects for achieving “free and open trade and investment” in the region by the 2010 target set in the Bogor Declaration in 1994. It would reduce or even eliminate the risk that the current FTA strategies of the two countries will lead to the creation of two megaregional blocs, an FTAA and an EAFTA (perhaps partly in response to an FTAA), which would truly "draw a line down the middle of the Pacific" and create a three-bloc world economy (and perhaps world polity) with all the instabilities that would imply—and with the very major risks it would also imply for overall relations between the United States and Japan (and indeed all of East Asia). 

AND NOW IS KEY—THE WORLD IS WATCHING TO SEE HOW THE U.S. WILL PROCEED, REVIVING DOHA IS CRITICAL TO PREVENTING GLOBAL PROTECTIONISM
The Telegraph 1/2(2011, “Lord Brittan: 2011 will be 'make or break' for Doha trade talks,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/8233556/Lord-Brittan-2011-will-be-make-or-break-for-Doha-trade-talks.html]]</span>, accessed 1/26/11)
Lord Brittan, the Prime Minister's trade adviser, has warned 2011 will be "make or break" for the long-stalled Doha round of global trade talks. "I think it is possible, but it is going to be hard," said the former politician, who was European Commissioner for Trade and for Competition during the 1990s, when asked if the new year might see a completion of the talks. Speaking to The Sunday Telegraph in a recent interview conducted before the turn of the year, Lord Brittan, who was in August appointed as David Cameron's trade adviser, said: "I think it's quite likely that the first part of next year will be make or break for Doha. Because either we will get a breakthrough from the Americans… or we won't." The Doha round – named after the Qatari city in which ministerial-level talks were first held – began in November 2001 with the aim of lowering trade barriers around the world. However, as it enters its 10th year, the latest World Trade Organisation (WTO) round is still at stalemate as the US presses emerging countries such as China and India to open up to American companies, while large parts of the developing world want the US and Europe to radically alter their agricultural policies. Lord Brittan's comments will provide a boost to the impetus surrounding the talks, which are due to be resuscitated next week during a series of intensive negotiations between the major players. Pascal Lamy, director general of the WTO, lambasted the organisation's 153 member countries last month, saying it was not enough to have "answering machines" around the negotiating table – a criticism at the apparent lip service certain countries have paid to the 10-year round of talks. Mr Lamy has called a full meeting of the WTO on February 2 in order to discuss this month's negotiations to see if resolutions might have been reached. Lord Brittan was a veteran of the previous WTO talks – the Uruguay round – during which he led the European Union's negotiations to "successful conclusion". "It's been stuck for a long time, it's not looking wonderful, but it's not hopeless," he said. Lord Brittan cited a recent meeting in Geneva with "ambassadors from all the major countries" in which he asked them if they had something extra to "put on the table". "They all without exception said yes, including China and everyone else. So the task essentially is to get them to empty their pockets, granted they're telling the truth and they have something in them." "I didn't ask for specifics because I knew I would get into trouble if I did that. They all pin-pointed the US and said the US has got to be more actively engaged." He went on to suggest that momentum and belief were just as vital as concessions in completing the talks, saying: "Part of the process is everybody telling everybody else it is doable." 

A CREDIBLE MODEL OF US CAPITALISM PREVENTS THE GLOBE FROM BACKSLIDING INTO A CHINESE MERCANTALIST SYSTEM – THE IMPACT IS DESTRUCTION OF INTERDEPENDENCE, MULTILATERAL COOPERATION, US DOMINANCE AND ECONOMIC NATIONALISM
Posen 2009 (Adam, deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics “Economic leadership beyond the crisis”, http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/readers/article.asp?p=4299) 
In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might, have been based largely on American relative economic size and success. These facts enabled the US to promote economic openness and buy-in to a set of economic institutions, formal and informal, that resulted in increasing international economic integration. With the exception of the immediate post-Bretton Woods oil-shock period (1974-85), this combination produced generally growing prosperity at home and abroad, and underpinned the idea that there were benefits to other countries of following the American model and playing by American rules. Initially this system was most influential and successful in those countries in tight military alliance with the US, such as Canada, West Germany, Japan, South Korea, and the United Kingdom. With the collapse of Soviet communism in 1989, and the concomitant switch of important emerging economies, notably Brazil, China, India, and Mexico, to increasingly free-market capitalism, global integration on American terms through American leadership has been increasingly dominant for the last two decades. The global financial crisis of 2008-09, however, represents a challenge to that world order. While overt financial panic has been averted, and most economic forecasts are for recovery to begin in the US and the major emerging markets well before end of 2009 (a belief I share), there remain significant risks for the US and its leadership. The global financial system, including but not limited to US-based entities, has not yet been sustainably reformed. In fact, financial stability will come under strain again when the current government financial guarantees and public ownership of financial firms and assets are unwound over the next couple of years. The growth rate of the US economy and the ability of the US government to finance responses to future crises, both military and economic, will be meaningfully curtailed for several years to come. Furthermore, the crisis will accelerate at least temporarily two related long-term trends eroding the viability of the current international economic arrangements. First, perhaps inevitably, the economic size and importance of China, India, Brazil, and other emerging markets (including oil-exporters like Russia) has been catching up with the US, and even more so with demographically and productivity challenged Europe and northeast Asia. Second, pressure has been building over the past fifteen years or so of these developing countries' economic rise to give their governments more voice and weight in international economic decision-making. Again, this implies a transfer of relative voting share from the US, but an even greater one from over-represented Western Europe. The near certainty that Brazil, China, and India, are to be less harmed in real economic terms by the current crisis than either the US or most other advanced economies will only emphasise their growing strength, and their ability to claim a role in leadership. The need for capital transfers from China and oil-exporters to fund deficits and bank recapitalisation throughout the West, not just in the US, increases these rising countries' leverage and legitimacy in international economic discussions. One aspect of this particular crisis is that American economic policymakers, both Democratic and Republican, became increasingly infatuated with financial services and innovation beginning in the mid-1990s. This reflected a number of factors, some ideological, some institutional, and some interest group driven. The key point here is that export of financial services and promotion of financial liberalisation on the US securitised model abroad came to dominate the US international economic policy agenda, and thus that of the IMF, the OECD, and the G8 as well. This came to be embodied by American multinational commercial and investment banks, in perception and in practice. That particular version of the American economic model has been widely discredited, because of the crisis' apparent origins in US lax regulation and over-consumption, as well as in excessive faith in American-style financial markets. Thus, American global economic leadership has been eroded over the long-term by the rise of major emerging market economies, disrupted in the short-term by the nature and scope of the financial crisis, and partially discredited by the excessive reliance upon and overselling of US-led financial capitalism. This crisis therefore presents the possibility of the US model for economic development being displaced, not only deservedly tarnished, and the US having limited resources in the near-term to try to respond to that challenge. Additionally, the US' traditional allies and co-capitalists in Western Europe and Northeast Asia have been at least as damaged economically by the crisis (though less damaged reputationally). Is there an alternative economic model? The preceding description would seem to confirm the rise of the Rest over the West. That would be premature. The empirical record is that economic recovery from financial crises, while painful, is doable even by the poorest countries, and in advanced countries rarely leads to significant political dislocation. Even large fiscal debt burdens can be reined in over a few years where political will and institutions allow, and the US has historically fit in that category. A few years of slower growth will be costly, but also may put the US back on a sustainable growth path in terms of savings versus consumption. Though the relative rise of the major emerging markets will be accelerated by the crisis, that acceleration will be insufficient to rapidly close the gap with the US in size, let alone in technology and well-being. None of those countries, except perhaps for China, can think in terms of rivaling the US in all the aspects of national power. These would include: a large, dynamic and open economy; favorable demographic dynamics; monetary stability and a currency with a global role; an ability to project hard power abroad; and an attractive economic model to export for wide emulation. This last point is key. In the area of alternative economic models, one cannot beat something with nothing - communism fell not just because of its internal contradictions, or the costly military build-up, but because capitalism presented a clearly superior alternative. The Chinese model is in part the American capitalist (albeit not high church financial liberalisation) model, and is in part mercantilism. There has been concern that some developing or small countries could take the lesson from China that building up lots of hard currency reserves through undervaluation and export orientation is smart. That would erode globalisation, and lead to greater conflict with and criticism of the US-led system. While in the abstract that is a concern, most emerging markets - and notably Brazil, India, Mexico, South Africa, and South Korea - are not pursuing that extreme line. The recent victory of the incumbent Congress Party in India is one indication, and the statements about openness of Brazilian President Lula is another. Mexico's continued orientation towards NAFTA while seeking other investment flows (outside petroleum sector, admittedly) to and from abroad is a particularly brave example. Germany's and Japan's obvious crisis-prompted difficulties emerging from their very high export dependence, despite their being wealthy, serve as cautionary examples on the other side. So unlike in the1970s, the last time that the US economic performance and leadership were seriously compromised, we will not see leading developing economies like Brazil and India going down the import substitution or other self-destructive and uncooperative paths. If this assessment is correct, the policy challenge is to deal with relative US economic decline, but not outright hostility to the US model or displacement of the current international economic system. That is reassuring, for it leaves us in the realm of normal economic diplomacy, perhaps to be pursued more multilaterally and less high-handedly than the US has done over the past 20 years. It also suggests that adjustment of current international economic institutions is all that is required, rather than desperately defending economic globalisation itself. For all of that reassurance, however, the need to get buy-in from the rising new players to the current system is more pressing on the economic front than it ever has been before. Due to the crisis, the ability of the US and the other advanced industrial democracies to put up money and markets for rewards and side-payments to those new players is also more limited than it has been in the past, and will remain so for at least the next few years. The need for the US to avoid excessive domestic self-absorption is a real concern as well, given the combination of foreign policy fatigue from the Bush foreign policy agenda and economic insecurity from the financial crisis. Managing the post-crisis global economy Thus, the US faces a challenging but not truly threatening global economic situation as a result of the crisis and longer-term financial trends. Failure to act affirmatively to manage the situation, however, bears two significant and related risks: first, that China and perhaps some other rising economic powers will opportunistically divert countries in US-oriented integrated relationships to their economic sphere(s); second, that a leadership vacuum will arise in international financial affairs and in multilateral trade efforts, which will over time erode support for a globally integrated economy. Both of these risks if realised would diminish US foreign policy influence, make the economic system less resilient in response to future shocks (to every country's detriment), reduce economic growth and thus the rate of reduction in global poverty, and conflict with other foreign policy goals like controlling climate change or managing migration and demographic shifts. If the US is to rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures. 

THE MERCANTALIST MODEL CREATES MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR GLOBAL CONFLICT AND COLLAPSE MULTILATERAL COOPERATION—ONLY MAINTAINING CREDIBILITY OF THE FREE MARKET SOLVES
Garten 2009 (Jeffrey, professor at the Yale School of Management , “The Dangers of Turning Inward”, 3/5, Wall Street Journal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.business.illinois.edu/aguilera/Teaching/WSJ09_Dangers_of_Turning_Inward.pdf]]</span>) 
The last time we saw sustained economic nationalism was in the 1930s, when capital flows and trade among countries collapsed, and every country went its own way. World growth went into a ditch, political ties among nations deteriorated, nationalism and populism combined to create fascist governments in Europe and Asia, and a world war took place. It took at least a generation for globalization to get back on track. There have been some bouts of inwardlooking governmental action since then, such as the early 1970s when the U.S. cut the dollar from its gold base and imposed export embargoes on soybeans and steel scrap. However, the economic conditions were not sufficiently bad for the trend to sustain itself. The kind of economic nationalism we are seeing today is not yet extreme. It is also understandable. The political pressures could hardly be worse. Over the last decade, the global economy grew on average about 4% to 5%, and this year it will come to a grinding halt: 0.5% according to the International Monetary Fund, where projections usually err on the optimistic side. World trade, which has grown much faster than global gross domestic product for many years, is projected to decline this year for the first time since 1982. Foreign direct investment last year slumped by 10% from 2007. Most dramatically, capital flows into emerging market nations are projected to drop this year by nearly 80% compared to 2007. The aggregate figures don't tell the story of what is unraveling in individual countries. In the last quarter of 2008, U.S. GDP dropped by 6.2% at an annual rate, the U.K. by 5.9%, Germany by 8.2%, Japan by 12.7% and South Korea by 20.8%. Mexico, Thailand and Singapore and most of Eastern Europe are also in deep trouble. In every case, employment has been plummeting. So far popular demonstrations against government policies have taken place in the U.K., France, Greece, Russia and throughout Eastern Europe. And the governments of Iceland and Latvia have fallen over the crisis. Governments could therefore be forgiven if they are preoccupied above all with the workers and companies within their own borders. Most officials don't know what to do because they haven't seen this level of distress before. They are living from day to day, desperately improvising and trying to hold off political pressure to take severe measures they know could be satisfying right now but cause bigger damage later. Thinking about how their policies might affect other countries is not their main focus, let alone taking the time to try to coordinate them internationally. Besides, whether it's in Washington, Brussels, Paris, Beijing, Brazilia or Tokyo, it is hard to find many top officials who wouldn't say that whatever measures they are taking that may undermine global commerce are strictly temporary. They all profess that when the crisis is over, they will resume their support for globalization. They underestimate, however, how hard it could be to reverse course. Political figures take comfort, too, from the global institutions that were not present in the 1930s -- the IMF, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization, all of which are assumed to be keeping globalization alive. This is a false sense of security, since these institutions are guided by sovereign countries. Government officials often feel that because they are going to endless crisis summit meetings -- the next big one is in London on April 2, when the world's top 20 nations will be assembling -- that some international coordination is actually taking place. This is mostly an illusion. With a few exceptions, such as the so-called Plaza Agreements of 1984 when currencies were realigned, it is difficult to point to a meeting where anything major has been said and subsequently implemented. But as the pressure on politicians mounts, decisions are being made on an incremental and ad hoc basis that amounts to a disturbing trend. Classic trade protectionism is on the rise. In the first half of 2008, the number of investigations in the World Trade Organization relating to antidumping cases -- selling below cost -- was up 30% from the year before. Washington has recently expanded sanctions against European food products in retaliation for Europe's boycott against hormonetreated American beef -- an old dispute, to be sure, but one that is escalating. In the last several months, the E.U. reintroduced export subsidies on butter and cheese. India raised tariffs on steel products, as did Russia on imported cars. Indonesia ingenuously designated that just a few of its ports could be used to import toys, creating a trade-blocking bottleneck. Brazil and Argentina have been pressing for a higher external tariff on imports into a South American bloc of countries called Mercosur. Just this week, the E.U. agreed to levy tariffs on American exports of biodiesel fuel, possibly a first shot in what may become a gigantic trade war fought over different environmental policies -- some based on taxes, some on regulation, some on cap and trade -- being embraced by individual countries. Much bigger problems have arisen in more non-traditional areas and derive from recent direct intervention of governments. The much-publicized "Buy America" provision of the U.S. stimulus package restricts purchases of construction-related goods to many U.S. manufacturers, and although it is riddled with exceptions, it does reveal Washington's state of mind. The bailout of GM and Chrysler is a purely national deal. Such exclusion against foreign firms is a violation of so-called "national treatment" clauses in trade agreements, and the E.U. has already put Washington on notice that it will pursue legal trade remedies if the final bailout package is discriminatory. Uncle Sam is not the only economic nationalist. The Japanese government is offering to help a broad array of its corporations -- but certainly not subsidiaries of foreign companies in Japan -- by purchasing the stock of these firms directly, thereby not just saving them but providing an advantage over competition from non-Japanese sources. The French government has created a sovereign wealth fund to make sure that certain "national champions," such as carparts manufacturer Valeo and aeronautics component maker Daher, aren't bought by foreign investors. Government involvement in financial institutions has taken on an anti-globalization tone. British regulators are pushing their global banks to redirect foreign lending to the U.K. when credit is sorely needed and where it can be monitored. Just this past week, the Royal Bank of Scotland announced it was closing shop in 60 foreign countries. Western European banks that were heavily invested in countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Baltics have pulled back their credits, causing a devastating deflation throughout Eastern Europe. The Swiss are reportedly considering more lenient accounting policies for loans their banks make domestically as opposed to abroad. This de-globalizing trend could well be amplified by Washington's effort to exercise tight oversight of several big financial institutions. Already AIG's prime Asian asset, American International Assurance Company, is on the block. As the feds take an ever bigger stake in Citigroup, they may well force it to divest itself of many of its prized global holdings, such as Banamex in Mexico and Citi Handlowy in Poland. It appears that new legislation under the Troubled Asset Relief Program will also restrict the employment of foreign nationals in hundreds of American banks in which the government has a stake. Whether or not it goes into bankruptcy, General Motors will be pressed to sell many of its foreign subsidiaries, too. Even Chinese multinationals such as Haier and Lenovo are beating a retreat to their own shores where the risks seem lower than operating in an uncertain global economy. The government in Beijing is never far away from such fundamental strategic decisions. Then there is the currency issue. Economic nationalists are mercantilists. They are willing to keep their currency cheap in order to make their exports more competitive. China is doing just that. A big question is whether other Asian exporters that have been badly hurt from the crisis -- Taiwan, South Korea and Thailand, for example -- will follow suit. Competitive devaluations were a major feature of the 1930s. It's no accident that the European Union has called an emergency summit for this Sunday to consider what to do with rising protectionism of all kinds. There are a number of reasons why economic nationalism could escalate. The recession could last well beyond this year. It is also worrisome that the forces of economic nationalism were gathering even before the crisis hit, and have deeper roots than most people know. Congress denied President Bush authority to negotiate trade agreements two years ago, fearing that America was not benefiting enough from open trade, and an effort to reform immigration was paralyzed for years. Globally, international trade negotiations called the Doha Round collapsed well before Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers did. Concerns that trade was worsening income distribution were growing in every major industrial nation since the late 1990s. Whenever countries turned inward over the past half-century, Washington was a powerful countervailing force, preaching the gospel of globalization and open markets for goods, services and capital. As the Obama administration works feverishly to fire up America's growth engines, patch up its financial system and keep its housing market from collapsing further, and as its major long-term objectives center on health, education and reducing energy dependence on foreign sources, the country's preoccupations are more purely domestic than at any time since the 1930s. In the past, American business leaders from companies such as IBM, GE, Goldman Sachs and, yes, Citigroup and Merrill Lynch beat the drum for open global markets. As their share prices collapse, some voices are muted, some silenced. It is not easy to find anyone in America who has the stature and courage to press for a more open global economy in the midst of the current economic and political crosswinds. And given that the global rot started in the U.S. with egregiously irresponsible lending, borrowing and regulation, America's brand of capitalism is in serious disrepute around the world. Even if President Obama had the mental bandwidth to become a cheerleader for globalization, America's do-as-I-say-and-not-as-I-do leadership has been badly compromised. If economic nationalism puts a monkey wrench in the wheels of global commerce, the damage could be severe. The U.S. is a good example. It is inconceivable that Uncle Sam could mount a serious recovery without a massive expansion of exports -- the very activity that was responsible for so much of America's economic growth during the middle of this decade. But that won't be possible if other nations block imports. For generations, the deficits that we have run this past decade and the trillions of dollars we are spending now mean we will be highly dependent on foreign loans from China, Japan and other parts of the world. But these will not be forthcoming at prices we can afford without a global financial system built on deep collaboration between debtors and creditors -- including keeping our market open to foreign goods and services. The Obama administration talks about a super-competitive economy, based on high-quality jobs -- which means knowledge-intensive jobs. This won't happen if we are not able to continue to bring in the brightest people from all over the world to work and live here. Silicon Valley, to take one example, would be a pale shadow of itself without Indian, Chinese and Israeli brain power in its midst. More generally, without an open global economy, worldwide industries such as autos, steel, banking and telecommunications cannot be rationalized and restructured efficiently, and we'll be doomed to have excessive capacity and booms and busts forever. The big emerging markets such as China, India, Brazil, Turkey and South Africa will never be fully integrated into the world economy, depriving them and us of future economic growth. The productivity of billions of men and women entering the global workforce will be stunted to everyone's detriment. Of course, no one would say that globalization is without its problems. Trade surges and products made by low-priced labor can lead to job displacement and increasing income inequality. Proud national cultures can be undermined. But these challenges can be met by reasonable regulation and by domestic policies that provide a strong social safety net and the kind of education that helps people acquire new skills for a competitive world. With the right responses of governments, the benefits should far outweigh the disadvantages. For thousands of years, globalization has increased global wealth, individual choice and human freedom. The point is, economic nationalism, with its implicit autarchic and save-yourself character, embodies exactly the wrong spirit and runs in precisely the wrong direction from the global system that will be necessary to create the future we all want. As happened in the 1930s, economic nationalism is also sure to poison geopolitics. Governments under economic pressure have far fewer resources to take care of their citizens and to deal with rising anger and social tensions. Whether or not they are democracies, their tenure can be threatened by popular resentment. The temptation for governments to whip up enthusiasm for something that distracts citizens from their economic woes -- a war or a jihad against unpopular minorities, for example -- is great. That's not all. As an economically enfeebled South Korea withdraws foreign aid from North Korea, could we see an even more irrational activity from Pyongyang? As the Pakistani economy goes into the tank, will the government be more likely to compromise with terrorists to alleviate at least one source of pressure? As Ukraine strains under the weight of an IMF bailout, is a civil war with Cold War overtones between Europe and Russia be in the cards? And beyond all that, how will economically embattled and inward-looking governments be able to deal with the critical issues that need global resolution such as control of nuclear weapons, or a treaty to manage climate change, or help to the hundreds of millions of people who are now falling back into poverty? 

AND THIS MERCANTALIST TRANSITION WILL COLLAPSE THE ECONOMY, INTENSIFY GLOBAL HOTSPOTS, AND GAURANTEE RESOURCE AND GREAT POWER WARS—THESE WILL ESCALATE AND CAUSE EXTINCTION 
Panzner 2008 (Michael, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse”, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks) 
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war. 

AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM SOLVES WAR—DESTROYS ALL INCENTIVES FOR EXPANSION, AND EMPIRICALLY PROVEN
Gartzke 2005 (Erik, associate professor of political science at Columbia University and author of a study on economic freedom and peace contained in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 10/18, Windsor Star, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133]]</span>)
With terrorism achieving "global reach" and conflict raging in Africa and the Middle East, you may have missed a startling fact - we are living in remarkably peaceable times. For six decades, developed nations have not fought each other. France and the United States may chafe, but the resulting conflict pitted french fries against "freedom fries," rather than French soldiers against U.S. "freedom fighters." Tony Blair and Jacques Chirac had a nasty spat over the EU, but the English aren't going to storm Calais any time soon. The present peace is unusual. Historically, powerful nations are the most war prone. The conventional wisdom is that democracy fosters peace but this claim fails scrutiny. It is based on statistical studies that show democracies typically don't fight other democracies. Yet, the same studies show that democratic nations go to war about as much as other nations overall. And more recent research makes clear that only the affluent democracies are less likely to fight each other. Poor democracies behave much like non-democracies when it comes to war and lesser forms of conflict. A more powerful explanation is emerging from newer, and older, empirical research - the "capitalist peace." As predicted by Montesquieu, Adam Smith, Norman Angell and others, nations with high levels of economic freedom not only fight each other less, they go to war less often, period. Economic freedom is a measure of the depth of free market institutions or, put another way, of capitalism. The "democratic peace" is a mirage created by the overlap between economic and political freedom. Democracy and economic freedom typically co-exist. Thus, if economic freedom causes peace, then statistically democracy will also appear to cause peace. When democracy and economic freedom are both included in a statistical model, the results reveal that economic freedom is considerably more potent in encouraging peace than democracy, 50 times more potent, in fact, according to my own research. Economic freedom is highly statistically significant (at the one-per-cent level). Democracy does not have a measurable impact, while nations with very low levels of economic freedom are 14 times more prone to conflict than those with very high levels. But, why would free markets cause peace? Capitalism is not only an immense generator of prosperity; it is also a revolutionary source of economic, social and political change. Wealth no longer arises primarily through land or control of natural resources. New Kind of Wealth Prosperity in modern societies is created by market competition and the efficient production that arises from it. This new kind of wealth is hard for nations to "steal" through conquest. In days of old, when the English did occasionally storm Calais, nobles dreamed of wealth and power in conquered lands, while visions of booty danced in the heads of peasant soldiers. Victory in war meant new property. In a free market economy, war destroys immense wealth for victor and loser alike. Even if capital stock is restored, efficient production requires property rights and free decisions by market participants that are difficult or impossible to co-ordinate to the victor's advantage. The Iraqi war, despite Iraq's immense oil wealth, will not be a money-maker for the United States. Economic freedom is not a guarantee of peace. Other factors, like ideology or the perceived need for self-defence, can still result in violence. But, where economic freedom has taken hold, it has made war less likely. Research on the capitalist peace has profound implications in today's world. Emerging democracies, which have not stabilized the institutions of economic freedom, appear to be at least as warlike - perhaps more so - than emerging dictatorships. Yet, the United States and other western nations are putting immense resources into democratization even in nations that lack functioning free markets. This is in part based on the faulty premise of a "democratic peace." It may also in part be due to public perception. Everyone approves of democracy, but "capitalism" is often a dirty word. However, in recent decades, an increasing number of people have rediscovered the economic virtues of the "invisible hand" of free markets. We now have an additional benefit of economic freedom - international peace. The actual presence of peace in much of the world sets this era apart from others. The empirical basis for optimistic claims - about either democracy or capitalism - can be tested and refined. The way forward is to capitalize on the capitalist peace, to deepen its roots and extend it to more countries through expanding markets, development, and a common sense of international purpose. The risk today is that faulty analysis and anti-market activists may distract the developed nations from this historic opportunity. 

AND DON’T BUY THEIR EPISTEMOLOGY CLAIMS—OUR ARGUMENT IS BASED ON EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE AND IS SUPPORTED BY FURTHER EVIDENCE THAN THEIR BUNK CLAIMS—WAR IS LESS LIKELY UNDER A CAPITALIST SYSTEM
Weede 2004 (Erich, professor of sociology at the University of Bonn, Germany, In Winter 1986-87, he was Visiting Professor of International Relations at the Bologna Center of The Johns Hopkins University, “BALANCE OF POWER, GLOBALIZATION, AND THE CAPITALIST PEACE,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fnf.org.ph/downloadables/Balance%20of%20Power,%20Globalization%20and%20Capitalist%20Peace.pdf]]</span>) 
If one does research or summarize the research of others – of course, most of the ideas, theories, and evidence discussed below have been produced by others – one cannot avoid some epistemological commitments. In the social sciences the fundamental choice is whether to pursue an ideographic or a nomothetic approach. Almost all historians choose the ideographic approach and focus on the description of structures or events, whereas most economists and psychologists choose the nomothetic approach and focus on the search for law-like general statements. Sociologists and political scientists are still divided – sometimes even by the Atlantic Ocean. In American political science the nomothetic approach dominates the flagship journal of the profession, the American Political Science Review, as well as more specialized journals, such as International Studies Quarterly, the Journal of Conflict Resolution, or World Politics. In German political science, however, the nomothetic approach has advanced little beyond electoral studies. My own approach is definitely nomothetic. This is related to my training in psychology at one of the first German universities focusing on quantitative research methods in the early 1960s, the University of Hamburg. This epistemological orientation has been reinforced by graduate training in international politics at one of the first American universities emphasizing quantitative research in the late 1960s, Northwestern University, which is located in a suburb of Chicago. Nomothetic research focuses on hypothesizing, testing and establishing law-like general statements or nomological propositions. Examples of such propositions are: The higher average incomes in a nation are, the more likely is democratic government. Or, the more economic freedom in a nation prevails, the less frequently it is involved in war. One characteristic of such propositions is that they say something about observable reality. Whenever you say something about reality, you risk that others find out that you are wrong. If we observed that most poor countries were democracies, but most rich countries were autocracies, then we should reject or, at least, modify the proposition about prosperity and democracy mentioned above.1 Nomothetic researchers look for refutations. They try to falsify their propositions or theories (Popper 1934/1959). If the empirical evidence is compatible with one's theory, then one keeps the hypothetical propositions and regards them as supported – until negative evidence turns up. Although certitude about possession of the truth is beyond the capabilities of human inquiry, growth of knowledge is conceivable by the successive elimination of errors. This epistemological approach borrowed from Popper were easily applicable, if most of our propositions were deterministic, if they claimed to be valid without exceptions. Then, finding a single exception to a general statement – say, about prosperity and democracy – would suffice to falsify the proposition. Looking at poor India nevertheless being democratic, or at fairly rich Kuwait nevertheless being autocratic, would suffice to reject the theory.2 Unfortunately, almost no theory in macroeconomics, macrosociology, or international relations delivers deterministic propositions. Instead we have only probabilistic statements of the type that more prosperous countries are more likely to be democratic than others, or that economically freer countries are more likely to avoid war involvement than others. Probabilistic assertions never can be falsified by pointing to single events which do not fit with theoretical expectations. Instead we have to look at relative frequencies, at correlations or regression coefficients. We need statistical tools to evaluate such propositions. We typically ask the question whether a hypothesized relationship is so strong that it could only rarely occur because of random measurement or sampling error. Probabilistic propositions are regarded as supported only if they jump certain thresholds of significance which are ultimately defined by mere conventions. Researchers are interested in causal propositions, that is, in statements about causes and effects, or determinants and consequences. Such statements can be used for explanation, forecasting, or policy interventions. We need to know more than the mere existence of some association or correlation between, say, prosperity and democracy, or economic freedom and the avoidance of military conflict. We need to know whether prosperity promotes democracy, or whether democracy promotes growth, or whether, possibly, both statements might be defensible or, for the time being, taken for 'true'. While a correlation between two variables, like prosperity and democracy, is equally compatible with the simple alternative causal propositions that prosperity causes democracy, and that democracy causes prosperity, this ambiguity no longer necessarily applies in more complex theoretical models. There, we tend to explain a single effect by a number of causes. For example, one may contend that democracy is promoted by prosperity as well as by a capitalist economic order (or economic freedom). We can take such a theoretical contention – which may be true or false, compatible with the data or not – as a starting point for specifying a regression equation.3 If both theoretical statements – about the democratizing effects of prosperity and capitalism – were true, then the regression coefficients of both variables should be positive and significant. If this is what we find in empirical research, then we regard the two propositions as provisionally supported. But final proofs remain impossible in empirical research. It is conceivable that some nonbeliever in the two propositions suggests a third measurable determinant of democracy. Before it actually is included in the regression equation, one never knows what its inclusion results in. Possibly, the previously significant and positive regression coefficients of prosperity and capitalism might be reduced to insignificance or even change signs. Then a previously supported causal proposition would have to be overturned and rejected. The claim of causality implies more than observable association or correlation. It also implies temporal precedence of causes before effects. If one wants to test the causal proposition that prosperity contributes to democratic government, or that economic freedom contributes to the avoidance of military conflict, then one should measure prosperity or economic freedom before their hypothesized effects occur – certainly not later. If there is doubt about the direction of causality, as there frequently is, one might also look at the relationships between, say, earlier prosperity and later democracy as well as between earlier democracy and later prosperity. Although such investigations may become technically complicated, it might suffice here to keep the general principles in mind. From causal propositions we derive expectations about correlation or regression coefficients. But conclusions from correlations to causal propositions are not justified. One simply can never 'verify' causal statements by correlations. From causal propositions we also derive expectations about temporal precedence. As long as empirical evidence fits one's theoretical expectations, one regards the propositions or theory as provisionally supported and works with them. There is another complication. As illustrated by the debate about the effects of trade and economic interdependence on the avoidance of military conflict below, full accordance of empirical studies and verdicts with theories is the exception rather than the rule – if it ever happens at all. That is why some philosophers of science (for example, Kuhn 1962; Lakatos 1968-69) have been critical of the idea of falsification and warned against premature rejection of propositions. If 'anomalies' or 'falsification' are more or less ubiquitous, then our task is no longer so easy as to choose between theories which have been falsified and therefore deserve rejection and those which are compatible with the facts and therefore deserve to be accepted until negative evidence turns up. Then our task becomes to choose between competing theories, for example about the conflict reinforcing or pacifying impact of trade, and to pick those which fit the data relatively better than others. So, the claim advanced in this review of the literature cannot be that the empirical evidence fits the capitalist peace idea perfectly, but merely that the evidence fits it much better than competing explanations of military conflict and notions about the negative impact of capitalism on the avoidance of conflict and war or the irrelevance of democracy do. The epistemological discussion above could provide no more than a crude 'feel' for empirical research in the social sciences and its pitfalls. Although certitude is beyond reach, it is better to rely on testable, tested and so far supported propositions than on a hodgepodge of ambiguous hunches, contradictory thinking, and unsystematically evaluated empirical evidence.


=NEG= 
==Nietzsche 1NC (Memorial)== 
**GOD IS DEAD** AND **TRANSCENDENTAL TRUTH DIED WITH IT. THE 1ACs SIGNIFICANCE ONLY COMES FROM AN ARBITRARY SENSE OF IMPORTANCE – YET THAT KNOWLEDGE FOGS THE ONLY TRUTH THERE IS – HUMAN EXISTENCE DOESN’T MEAN A DAMN THING**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 1873</span></span> (Friedrich, Anti-Christ, “On Truth and Lie in the Extra-Moral Sense,” The Nietzsche Channel, AD: 8/17/09) jl
In some remote corner of the universe, poured out and glittering in innumerable solar systems, there once was a star on which clever animals invented knowledge. That was the highest and most mendacious minute of "world history"—yet only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths the star grew cold, and the clever animals had to die. One might invent such a fable and still not have illustrated sufficiently how wretched, how shadowy and flighty, how aimless and arbitrary, the human intellect appears in nature. There have been eternities when it did not exist; and when it is done for again, nothing will have happened. For this intellect has no further mission that would lead beyond human life. It is human, rather, and only its owner and producer gives it such importance, as if the world pivoted around it. But if we could communicate with the mosquito, then we would learn that he floats through the air with the same self-importance, feeling within itself the flying center of the world. There is nothing in nature so despicable or insignificant that it cannot immediately be blown up like a bag by a slight breath of this power of knowledge; and just as every porter wants an admirer, the proudest human being, the philosopher, thinks that he sees on the eyes of the universe telescopically focused from all sides on his actions and thoughts. It is strange that this should be the effect of the intellect, for after all it was given only as an aid to the most unfortunate, most delicate, most evanescent beings in order to hold them for a minute in existence, from which otherwise, without this gift, they would have every reason to flee as quickly as Lessing's son. [In a famous <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.geocities.com/thenietzschechannel/tlsg.htm#sohn|letter]]</span> to Johann Joachim Eschenburg (December 31, 1778), Lessing relates the death of his infant son, who "understood the world so well that he left it at the first opportunity."] That haughtiness which goes with knowledge and feeling, which shrouds the eyes and senses of man in a blinding fog, therefore deceives him about the value of existence by carrying in itself the most flattering evaluation of knowledge itself. Its most universal effect is deception; but even its most particular effects have something of the same character. The intellect, as a means for the preservation of the individual, unfolds its chief powers in simulation; for this is the means by which the weaker, less robust individuals preserve themselves, since they are denied the chance of waging the struggle for existence with horns or the fangs of beasts of prey. In man this art of simulation reaches its peak: here deception, flattering, lying and cheating, talking behind the back, posing, living in borrowed splendor, being masked, the disguise of convention, acting a role before others and before oneself—in short, the constant fluttering around the single flame of vanity is so much the rule and the law that almost nothing is more incomprehensible than how an honest and pure urge for truth could make its appearance among men. They are deeply immersed in illusions and dream images; their eye glides only over the surface of things and sees "forms"; their feeling nowhere lead into truth, but contents itself with the reception of stimuli, playing, as it were, a game of blindman's buff on the backs of things. Moreover, man permits himself to be lied to at night, his life long, when he dreams, and his moral sense never even tries to prevent this—although men have been said to have overcome snoring by sheer will power. What, indeed, does man know of himself! Can he even once perceive himself completely, laid out as if in an illuminated glass case? Does not nature keep much the most from him, even about his body, to spellbind and confine him in a proud, deceptive consciousness, far from the coils of the intestines, the quick current of the blood stream, and the involved tremors of the fibers? She threw away the key; and woe to the calamitous curiosity which might peer just once through a crack in the chamber of consciousness and look down, and sense that man rests upon the merciless, the greedy, the insatiable, the murderous, in the indifference of his ignorance—hanging in dreams, as it were, upon the back of a tiger. In view of this, whence in all the world comes the urge for truth? Insofar as the individual wants to preserve himself against other individuals, in a natural state of affairs he employs the intellect mostly for simulation alone. But because man, out of need and boredom, wants to exist socially, herd-fashion, he requires a peace pact and he endeavors to banish at least the very crudest bellum omni contra omnes [war of all against all] from his world. This peace pact brings with it something that looks like the first step toward the attainment of this enigmatic urge for truth. For now that is fixed which henceforth shall be "truth"; that is, a regularly valid and obligatory designation of things is invented, and this linguistic legislation also furnishes the first laws of truth: for it is here that the contrast between truth and lie first originates. The liar uses the valid designations, the words, to make the unreal appear as real; he says, for example, "I am rich," when the word "poor" would be the correct designation of his situation. He abuses the fixed conventions by arbitrary changes or even by reversals of the names. When he does this in a self-serving way damaging to others, then society will no longer trust him but exclude him. Thereby men do not flee from being deceived as much as from being damaged by deception: what they hate at this stage is basically not the deception but the bad, hostile consequences of certain kinds of deceptions. In a similarly limited way man wants the truth: he desires the agreeable life-preserving consequences of truth, but he is indifferent to pure knowledge, which has no consequences; he is even hostile to possibly damaging and destructive truths. And, moreover, what about these conventions of language? Are they really the products of knowledge, of the sense of truth? Do the designations and the things coincide? Is language the adequate expression of all realities?

**WAR AND CONFLICT DEFINE THE HUMAN CONDITION – ATTEMPTS TO SUPPRESS VIOLENCE IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NOT ONLY CAUSE MORE VIOLENCE BUT LEAD US TO LIVE TRUNCATED LIVES WITHOUT VALUE**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 95</span></span> (James, On Security) jl
In the last analysis, "love of the neighbor" is always something secondary, partly conventional and arbitrary--illusory in relation to fear of the neighbor . After the structure of society is fixed on the whole and seems secure against external dangers, it is this fear of the neighbor that again creates new perspectives of moral valuation. --Friedrich Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security through a genealogy of modes of being. His method is not to uncover some deep meaning or value for security, but to destabilize the intolerable fictional identities of the past which have been created out of fear, and to affirm the creative differences which might yield new values for the future. [[#txt33]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note33#note33|33]]</span> Originating in the paradoxical relationship of a contingent life and a certain death, the history of security reads for Nietzsche as an abnegation, a resentment and, finally, a transcendence of this paradox. In brief, the history is one of individuals seeking an impossible security from the most radical "other" of life, the terror of death which, once generalized and [[#33]]nationalized, triggers a futile cycle of collective identities seeking security from alien others--who are seeking similarly impossible guarantees. It is a story of differences taking on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness. Since Nietzsche has suffered the greatest neglect in international theory, his reinterpretation of security will receive a more extensive treatment here. One must begin with Nietzsche's idea of the will to power, which he clearly believed to be prior to and generative of all considerations of security. In Beyond Good and Evil , he emphatically establishes the primacy of the will to power: "Physiologists should think before putting down the instinct of self-preservation as the cardinal instinct of an organic being. A living thing seeks above all to discharge its strength--life itself is will to power; self-preservation is only one of the most frequent results." [[#txt34]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note34#note34|34]]</span> The will to power, then, should not be confused with a Hobbesian perpetual desire for power. It can, in its negative form, produce a reactive and resentful longing for only power, leading, in Nietzsche's view, to a triumph of nihilism. But Nietzsche refers to a positive will to power, an active and affective force of becoming, from which values and meanings--including self-preservation--are produced which affirm life. Conventions of security act to suppress rather than confront the fears endemic to life, for ". . . life itself is essentially appropriation, injury, overpowering of what is alien and weaker; suppression, hardness, imposition of one's own forms, incorporation and at least, at its mildest, exploitation--><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note35#note35|35]]</span> Elsewhere Nietzsche establishes the pervasiveness of agonism in life: "life is a consequence of war, society itself a means to war." [[#txt36]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note36#note36|36]]</span> But the denial of this permanent condition, the effort to disguise it with a consensual rationality or to hide from it with a fictional sovereignty, are all effects of this suppression of fear. The desire for security is manifested as a collective resentment of difference--that which is not us, not certain, not predictable. Complicit with a negative will to power is the fear-driven desire for protection from the unknown. Unlike the positive will to power, which produces an aesthetic affirmation of difference, the search for truth produces a truncated life which conforms to the rationally knowable, to the causally sustainable. In The Gay Science , Nietzsche asks of the reader: "Look, isn't our need for knowledge precisely this need for the familiar, the will to uncover everything strange, unusual, and questionable, something that no longer disturbs us? Is it not the instinct of fear that bids us to know? And is the [[#34]]jubilation of those who obtain knowledge not the jubilation over the restoration of a sense of security?" [[#txt37]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note37#note37|37]]</span> The fear of the unknown and the desire for certainty combine to produce a domesticated life, in which causality and rationality become the highest sign of a sovereign self, the surest protection against contingent forces. The fear of fate assures a belief that everything reasonable is true, and everything true, reasonable. In short, the security imperative produces, and is sustained by, the strategies of knowledge which seek to explain it. Nietzsche elucidates the nature of this generative relationship in The Twilight of the Idols : The causal instinct is thus conditional upon, and excited by, the feeling of fear. The "why?" shall, if at all possible, not give the cause for its own sake so much as for a particular kind of cause --a cause that is comforting, liberating and relieving. . . . That which is new and strange and has not been experienced before, is excluded as a cause. Thus one not only searches for some kind of explanation, to serve as a cause, but for a particularly selected and preferred kind of explanation--that which most quickly and frequently abolished the feeling of the strange, new and hitherto unexperienced: the most habitual explanations. [[#txt38]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note38#note38|38]]</span> A safe life requires safe truths. The strange and the alien remain unexamined, the unknown becomes identified as evil, and evil provokes hostility--recycling the desire for security. The "influence of timidity," as Nietzsche puts it, creates a people who are willing to subordinate affirmative values to the "necessities" of security: "they fear change, transitoriness: this expresses a straitened soul, full of mistrust and evil experiences." [[#txt39]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note39#note39|39]]</span> The unknowable which cannot be contained by force or explained by reason is relegated to the off-world. "Trust," the "good," and other common values come to rely upon an "artificial strength": "the feeling of security such as the Christian possesses; he feels strong in being able to trust, to be patient and composed: he owes this artificial strength to the illusion of being protected by a god." [[#txt40]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note40#note40|40]]</span>

**THE ALTERNATIVE IS TO VOTE NEGATIVE.**

**THIS IS THE MEANS TO** REAL **PEACE – THREATS** ARE **ROOTED IN PROCLAIMING OUR NEIGHBORS IMMORALITY – THIS PREDISPOSITION IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF** ALL **WAR..**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 1879</span></span> (Friedrich, Chair of Classical Philology at the University of Basel, Human, All Too Human, The Nietzsche Channel, The Wanderer and His Shadow, http://www.geocities.com/thenietzschechannel/was.htm, AD: 7/6/09) jl
The means to real peace.— No government admits any more that it keeps an army to satisfy occasionally the desire for conquest. Rather the army is supposed to serve for defense, and one invokes the morality that approves of self-defense. But this implies one's own morality and the neighbor's immorality; for the neighbor must be thought of as eager to attack and conquer if our state must think of means of self-defense. Moreover, the reasons we give for requiring an army imply that our neighbor, who denies the desire for conquest just as much as does our own state, and who, for his part, also keeps an army only for reasons of self-defense, is a hypocrite and a cunning criminal who would like nothing better than to overpower a harmless and awkward victim without any fight. Thus all states are now ranged against each other: they presuppose their neighbor's bad disposition and their own good disposition. This presupposition, however, is inhumane, as bad as war and worse. At bottom, indeed, it is itself the challenge and the cause of wars, because, as I have said, it attributes immorality to the neighbor and thus provokes a hostile disposition and act. We must abjure the doctrine of the army as a means of self-defense just as completely as the desire for conquests. And perhaps the great day will come when people, distinguished by wars and victories and by the highest development of a military order and intelligence, and accustomed to make the heaviest sacrifices for these things, will exclaim of its own free will, "We break the sword," and will smash its entire military establishment down to its lowest foundations. Rendering oneself unarmed when one had been the best-armed, out of a height of feeling—that is the means to real peace, which must always rest on a peace of mind; whereas the so-called armed peace, as it now exists in all countries, is the absence of peace of mind. One trusts neither oneself nor one's neighbor and, half from hatred, half from fear, does not lay down arms. Rather perish than hate and fear, and twice rather perish than make oneself hated and feared—this must someday become the highest maxim for every single commonwealth. Our liberal representatives, as is well known, lack the time for reflecting on the nature of man: else they would know that they work in vain when they work for a "gradual decrease of the military burden." Rather, only when this kind of need has become greatest will the kind of god be nearest who alone can help here. The tree of war-glory can only be destroyed all at once, by a stroke of lightning: but lightning, as indeed you know, comes from a cloud—and from up high. 



==Heg DA 1NC (Memorial)== 
**UNIQUENESS – OFFSHORE POWER PROJECTION IS MAINTAINING LEADERSHIP – DEFENSE SPENDING IS CRITICAL TO MILITARY DOMINANCE**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry et al 9</span></span> (G. John Ikenberry is a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno is a professor of government and associate dean for social sciences at Dartmouth College, and William C. Wohlforth is a professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, State Behavior, and Systemic Consequences,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009, p. Muse) jl
<span style="margin: 0in -2pt 0.0001pt 0.2in;">There is widespread agreement, moreover, that any plausible index aggregating the relevant dimensions of state capabilities would place the United States in a separate class by a large margin.12 The most widely used measures of capability are gdp and military spending. As of 2006 the United States accounted for roughly one-quarter of global gdp and nearly 50 percent of gdp among the conventionally defined great powers (see Table 1). This surpasses the relative economic size of any leading state in modern history, with the sole exception of the United States itself in the early cold war years, when World War II had temporarily depressed every other major economy. By virtue of the size and wealth of the United States economy, its massive military capabilities represented only about 4 percent of its gdp in 2006 (Table 2), compared with the nearly 10 percent it averaged over the peak years of the cold war—1950–70—as well as with the burdens borne by most of the major powers of the past.13 The United States now likely spends more on defense than the rest of the world combined (Table 2). Military research and development (R&D) may best capture the scale of the long-term investments that military expenditures on R&D were more than six times greater than those of Germany, Japan, France, and Britain combined. By some estimates over half of the military R&D expenditures in the world are American, a disparity that has been sustained for decades: over the past thirty years, for example, the United States invested more than three times what the EU countries combined invested in military R&D. Hence, on any composite index featuring these two indicators the United States obviously looks like a unipole. That perception is reinforced by a snapshot of science and technology indicators for the major powers (see Table 3). These vast commitments do not make the United States omnipotent, but they do facilitate a preeminence in military capabilities vis-à-vis all other major powers that is unique in the post-seventeenth-century experience. While other powers can contest U.S. forces operating in or very near their homelands, especially over issues that involve credible nuclear deterrence, the United States is and will long remain the only state capable of projecting major military power globally.14 This dominant position is enabled by what Barry Posen calls “command of the commons”—that is, unassailable military dominance over the sea, air, and space. The result is an international system that contains only one state with the capability to organize major politico-military action anywhere in the system.15 No other state or even combination of states is capable of mounting and deploying a major expeditionary force outside its own region, except with the assistance of the United States. Conventional measures thus suggest that the concentration of military and overall economic potential in the United States distinguishes the current international system from its predecessors over the past four centuries (see Figure 1). As historian Paul Kennedy observed: “Nothing has ever existed like this disparity of power; nothing, . . . I have returned to all of the comparative defense spending and military personnel statistics over the past 500 years that I compiled in The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers, and no other nation comes close.”16 The bottom line is that if we adopt conventional definitions of polarity and standard measures of capabilities, then the current international system is as unambiguously unipolar as past systems were multipolar and bipolar. </span>

**US MILITARY WITHDRAWAL CRUSHES HEGEMONY**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tunç 8</span></span> (Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669) jl
Reputation can be defined as a judgment about an actor’s past behavior and character that is used to predict future behavior. In international politics, a major component of building or maintaining a country’s reputation involves resolve.5 Policy makers may believe that a lack of resolve in one military confrontation will be seen as an indication of general weakness.6 According to Shiping Tang, this concern frequently amounts to ‘‘a cult of reputation’’ among foreign policy makers, which he defines as ‘‘a belief system holding as its central premise a conviction (or fear) that backing down in a crisis will lead one’s adversaries or allies to underestimate one’s resolve in the next crisis.’’7 Of particular importance to the cult of reputation is concern about the consequences of withdrawal from a theater of war. The major dictate of the cult of reputation is that a country should stand firm and refuse to withdraw from a theater of war. The underlying belief is that a withdrawal would inflict a severe blow to a country’s reputation and thus ‘‘embolden’’ the adversaries by boosting commitment and recruitment to their cause.8 Since the end of World War II, a cult of reputation has evolved among certain American policy makers who maintain that being a global power means being able to convey the image of strength and resolve.9 According to this perspective, a reputation for firmness and resoluteness deters adversaries and reassures allies about U.S. commitments. Conversely, being perceived as weak and irresolute encourages adversaries to be more aggressive and results in allies being less supportive. This logic has had two general consequences for America’s use of force abroad: First, exhibiting resolve has been deemed necessary even in small and distant countries. This is because the mere perception of power generates tangible power, thereby reducing the need to use actual physical force against every adversary.10 In the 1950s and 1960s, this logic translated into military interventions in several places, notably in Korea and Vietnam, countries whose strategic value to the United States appeared questionable to some.11 Second, reputational concerns made it difficult for the United States to withdraw from a theater of war. The Vietnam War is the most prominent case, although the logic was also evident during the Korean conflict in the early 1950s.12 As is well-documented by historians, both the Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon administrations took reputation seriously and argued that leaving Vietnam without an ‘‘honorable’’ exit would seriously hurt U.S. credibility in the eyes of allies and adversaries alike. For both Johnson and Nixon, an ‘‘honorable’’ exit meant creating an autonomous South Vietnam (much like independent, anti-communist South Korea after the Korean war) that was recognized by all parties involved in the conflict, particularly by the North Vietnamese government. Such an outcome would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13

**FORWARD DEPLOYMENT PREVENTS MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR CONFLICT AND NUCLEAR WAR – PREFER IT TO ANY OTHER POWER STRUCTURE – ALL THEIR IMPACTS ARE MORE LIKELY IN A WORLD WITHOUT AMERICAN PREDOMINANCE**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span></span> (Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Policy Review, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>) jl
Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as “No. 1” and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic. It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not only on the goodwill of peoples but also on American power. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe ’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. Conflicts are more likely to erupt if the United States withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn ’t changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to “normal” or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path. 


<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">**Even if another great power doesn’t arise, reducing our alliance commitments independently triggers nuclear war** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 7</span>** (Bradley A. Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota , American Empire: A Debate. Routledge Press: Taylor and Francis Group, NY. P. 109) jl 
<span style="margin-left: 14.25pt;">If the United States adopted offshore balancing, many of those allies would terminate their relationship with the United States. They would be forced to increase their own armaments, acquire nuclear weapons, and perhaps ally against theUnited States, even aiming their nuclear weapons at the United States. In those circumstances, the United States would be far less secure and much worse off than it is now. That might be the future if theUnited States changed its grand strategy. To be sure, at present the United States is a great ally. It is rich and powerful, with many allies all over the world. It weilds enormous influence in international institutions as well. When a global problem arises, countries turn to the United States to solve it. When you reflect on all the countries who have been hegemons, the United States is the most accommodating and helpful the world has seen. That is a weighty point and must be emphasized—too frequently, it is not. The United States is so for many reasons, including its democratic ideology, the good-natured qualities of the American people, and geography; and the United States is far away from the Eurasian and African landmasses, which makes it a more attractive ally for a typical country in Eurasia—say, Poland or Turkey—since the United States must be invited in comparison to a great power like Russia. If Warsaw or Ankara were to invite the Russians in, they may never leave, and they might incorporate Poland or Turkey into Russia. There is no danger of that with the United States. And this simple fact alone helps us enormously in our relations with the rest of the world. <109></span>

==START DA 1NC (Memorial)== 
(Uniqueness Varies By Tournament)

<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">**Republicans oppose ANY call for military withdrawal** </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan ‘10</span></span> (Robert, March 5, Senior associate@Carnegie Endowment, “On Foreign Policy, Obama and the GOP Find Room for Agreement”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40298)
Perfect bipartisanship on foreign and defense policy is a lot to ask in an election year, and Republicans have a right, even an obligation, to be critical of policies they regard as dangerous. But there is more agreement today than usual. Never mind the divisive decades of the Bush and Clinton administrations. Democrats who look back fondly to the days of George H.W. Bush forget that they voted overwhelmingly against the Persian Gulf War and attacked that administration for paying too much attention to foreign policy. Today, by contrast, the administration and opposition largely agree on some of the most pressing issues. By historical standards, foreign policy is one area where the government is working. How to explain the surprising comity? Partly it is because the Democrats have changed in power. Being in opposition for many years tends to breed irresponsibility, as both parties have shown over the past two decades. Obama's team took office assuming that it should do the opposite of whatever Bush did or said, and the policy of "un-Bush" dominated the first months, just as "un-Clinton" shaped the early Bush years. But "un-" policies are no substitute for serious thinking. On most issues the Obama administration is now pursuing approaches closer to those of both Clinton and Bush than those favored by the virulently anti-Bush partisans. This is not surprising, since neither American interests nor the interests of other nations change with the American electoral cycle. There are larger forces at work, too, above all Sept. 11's lingering effects on the American psyche. Obama officials at first celebrated their abandonment of the "war on terror," seeing it as a Bush-era mistake and, rhetorically at least, placed more emphasis on righting legal wrongs done to captured terrorism suspects than on stopping terrorist attacks. The irony is that Obama has been fighting the war on terror at least as vigorously as his predecessor. He escalated the war in Afghanistan and greatly increased drone attacks on suspected terrorists in Pakistan. The fact is, no president can allow himself to be perceived as trading any degree of American security to better protect the rights of suspected terrorists. Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt countenanced far more egregious violations of individual rights when security interests were perceived to be at stake. It was predictable that whatever Candidate Obama promised, President Obama would be compelled to take a tough line on terrorism. So Guantanamo remains open and may stay open for the remainder of Obama's presidency. Khalid Sheik Mohammed will probably not be tried in New York. After the Christmas Day bomber was taken into custody, more people have been put on watch lists. The USA Patriot Act has been renewed. Obama has probably learned not to provide Republicans new opportunities to exploit his weakness in these areas. For Republicans, meanwhile, the ongoing effect of Sept. 11 has been to check isolationist tendencies that have periodically flared in the party since the 1920s. Most Republicans today don't believe there is safety to be found in a Fortress America and reject even more modest calls for a retrenchment of U.S. involvement overseas.

**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">The impacts are nuclear miscalc, relations, and Russia war—START is key </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span></span> (Matthew and James, executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America + director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "START is key to reducing the nuclear threat," <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/81321-start-is-key-to-reducing-the-nuclear-threat?tmpl=component&print=1&page=]]</span>, AD: 9/22/10) jl
But arguments from both hawks and doves have missed an urgent point: that without a new treaty, Washington will be unable to manage the risks associated with Russia’s vast nuclear arsenal, which still poses the single greatest existential threat to the United States. With around 4,000 deployed nuclear warheads, a staggering 1,000 tons of weapons-grade nuclear material, hundreds of deployed ballistic missiles and thousands of experts with the knowledge to construct such systems from scratch, Russia is still potentially the world’s nuclear supermarket. Agreements governing these arsenals are essential to preventing the many national security nightmares of nuclear proliferation to rogue states and terrorist groups from becoming realities. To protect America, we must agree to, and verify, limits on what the Russians have, know how they are using it, and take adequate steps to ensure that devastating weapons and dangerous materials remain safe from terrorist theft. As of Dec. 5, 2009, when the 1991 START agreement expired, we lack any enforceable, verifiable treaty to provide that level of information. We need a new treaty in force not only to plug holes left gaping by the old treaty’s expiration, but also to increase our security by imposing further limits on what new nuclear weapons the Russians can develop and deploy. A successor to START would likely lower the maximum number of deployed strategic nuclear warheads allowed to between 1,500 and 1,675 on each side — still enough to destroy the world many times over, but far below the 6,000 allowed under the old treaty. Strategic delivery vehicles — missiles, bombers and nuclear missile submarines — will be further cut from 1,600 to around 800. Reducing Russia’s nuclear arsenal and taking missile launchers in both countries off alert reduces the likelihood of accidental nuclear war, keeping Americans safer. Verified and permanent reductions in the Russian nuclear arsenal will dramatically reduce the number of targets for potential theft or diversion of nuclear technology to terrorists. Over the past two decades, the U.S. has invested at least $10 billion to ensure security for Russian and former Soviet nuclear material, technologies, facilities, and individual experts under the auspices of the “Nunn-Lugar” Cooperative Threat Reduction and other bilateral and multilateral programs. These programs have helped to deactivate over 7,500 former Soviet nuclear warheads, destroy over 2,000 missiles, and eliminate over 1,100 missile launchers. But without a comprehensive U.S.-Russian arms control agreement in place, steps like these could be totally nullified by production of new nuclear materials, weapons and launchers without any U.S. or international monitoring. Even after a new treaty enters into force, the U.S. and Russia will possess the world’s largest nuclear arsenals by a wide margin. And as long as nuclear weapons exist, leaders across the political spectrum concur, the U.S. must maintain the world’s strongest, safest and most reliable arsenal. Yet in addition to reducing the size of the threat itself, a new agreement would be beneficial for increasing regular engagement between the U.S. and Russia on strategic issues, which will help build mutual understanding, and avert needless suspicion and conflict. Two decades after the end of the Cold War, Americans and Russians are increasingly intertwined in global financial and energy markets, and we share immediate and vital national security interests in preventing terrorism, state failure and drug trafficking throughout the Eurasian region. Yet our communication on security issues has been in dangerous decline for the past decade. In a sense, this should come as no surprise, since the most recent comprehensive U.S.-Russian security treaty was actually signed by the United States and the Soviet Union, which no longer exists. Any “reset” that puts U.S.-Russian relations on a more productive footing will depend first and foremost on forging a durable bilateral agreement to replace START. Arms control is not in itself a solution to U.S.-Russian tensions, or a guarantee of security from the nuclear terror threat, but if history is any guide, it is where we must begin.

**WAR WITH RUSSIA IS THE ONLY SCENARIO FOR EXTINCTION**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span> </span>- Ph.D. Philosophy @ Oxford and really smart dude
(Nick, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>) 
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.

<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">**Relations access warming and turn case** </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham 8</span></span> (Thomas Graham, foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University. July 2008 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]]</span>, AD: 9/22/10) jl 
What trends? Simply put the world has entered a period of great flux and upheaval of uncertain duration. We are witnessing an historic shift in global dynamism from Europe to the Asia-Pacific region, initially in the economic realm but one that will eventually reorder the geopolitical realm. The Middle East - Or more broadly the muslim world - is engaged in an epic battle between tradition and modernization that jeopardizes global energy security. Although the nation-state, the fundamental unit of the international system since the Westphalian peace of 1648, is thriving in East Asia and the United States, it is under mounting strain as Europe seeks to create a supranational structure and artificial states in the Middle East begin to break down along sectarian and ethnic lines. Globalization has fueled an unprecedented period of economic growth around the world while unleashing the forces of disorder - terrorism, transnational organizations to manage - global warming, pandemic disease, proliferation of the materials and know-how to build weapons of mass destruction. With the economic growth has come an historic transfer of wealth from the West to energy exporters, such as Russia, and rising manufacturing powers, such as China. In this uncertain world, the United States and Russia are not strategic rivals, and neither poses a strategic threat to the other (despite some overwrought Russian rhetoric to the contrary), in contrast to the situation during the Cold War. Rather, they share a set of common strategic challenges. Russia, by virtue of its geographic location, and the United States, by virtue of its global role, must build new relationships with a Europe that is expanding and deepening they both must find a way to cope with growing instability in the Middle East, the challenge to energy security that implies, and, at least for Russia, the threat that that instability will infect Russia's southern reaches; and they both must manage relations with a rising China. In addition, both countries must deal with the dark side of globalization, and both have a keen interest in the role and effectiveness of the institutions of global government, such as the United Nations and the G-8, the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund. Common challenges, however, are not the same as common interests. And there are deep differences in the way the United States and Russia think of global order (consider, for example, the role of democracy or the United Nations). But the question of each country needs to ask is how important the other is to achieving its own strategic goals. For example: Given their standing as the world's two leading nuclear powers, the United States and Russia are each indispensable to dealing with the problems of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear terrorism, and strategic stability. The United States, as the world's largest energy consumer, and Russia, as the largest producer of hydrocarbons, are essential to any discussion of energy security and energy's future. Global economic dynamics and transfers of wealth will require bringing Russia, along with China, India, and others, into a more central role in managing the global economy, a service long performed by Europe and the United Stats. In East Asia, to create a favorable new equilibrium, Russia has an interest in a strong power - that is, the United States - acting as a moderating influence on China, and the United States has no interest in a weakening Russian presence in Siberia and the Russian Far East, regions rich in the natural resources that fuel modern economies. In the Middle East, both the United States and Russia have levers that could help promote stability, if the two countries were working in concert, or fuel conflict, if they were not. In Europe, Russian energy is critical to economic well-being, and the United States remains essential to security and stability. On a range of other issues - for example, civil nuclear energy, pandemic disease, and climate change - each country is capable of making a major contribution, given the vast scientific talent of each. In the former Soviet space, both countries will be critical to building lasting security and economic structures.

<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">**Extinction** </span>
Tickel 8
(Oliver, , Climate Researcher. The Gaurdian, 8-11-2008 “”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>) ET
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd and dangerous. Global warming on this scale would be a catastrophe that would mean, in the immortal words that Chief Seattle probably never spoke, "the end of living and the beginning of survival" for humankind. Or perhaps the beginning of our extinction. The collapse of the polar ice caps would become inevitable, bringing long-term sea level rises of 70-80 metres. All the world's coastal plains would be lost, complete with ports, cities, transport and industrial infrastructure, and much of the world's most productive farmland. The world's geography would be transformed much as it was at the end of the last ice age, when sea levels rose by about 120 metres to create the Channel, the North Sea and Cardigan Bay out of dry land. Weather would become extreme and unpredictable, with more frequent and severe droughts, floods and hurricanes. The Earth's carrying capacity would be hugely reduced. Billions would undoubtedly die. Watson's call was supported by the government's former chief scientific adviser, Sir David King, who warned that "if we get to a four-degree rise it is quite possible that we would begin to see a runaway increase". This is a remarkable understatement. The climate system is already experiencing significant feedbacks, notably the summer melting of the Arctic sea ice. The more the ice melts, the more sunshine is absorbed by the sea, and the more the Arctic warms. And as the Arctic warms, the release of billions of tonnes of methane – a greenhouse gas 70 times stronger than carbon dioxide over 20 years – captured under melting permafrost is already under way. To see how far this process could go, look 55.5m years to the Palaeocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum, when a global temperature increase of 6C coincided with the release of about 5,000 gigatonnes of carbon into the atmosphere, both as CO2 and as methane from bogs and seabed sediments. Lush subtropical forests grew in polar regions, and sea levels rose to 100m higher than today. It appears that an initial warming pulse triggered other warming processes. Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.