=Affirmative= 

Despite protests the US will attempt to build another base in Okinawa

(Chalmers <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span></span>, author of several books, including "Blowback" and "Dismantling the Empire: America's Last, Best Hope.", 5/6/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, LA Times ("Another battle of Okinawa", http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-johnson-20100506,0,4706050.story//avi))

<span class="DebateUnderline">The United States is …**<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">elsewhere on the island.</span>**</span> 



Put away your DAs—dependence on the U.S. is unsustainable—Japan will not tolerate subservience over the long-term.

Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (“Get Out of Japan,” //The National Interest Online//, June 18th, Available Online at http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23592)

Moreover, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Washington’s high-… goals of modern Japan</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">.”</span>



Text: The United States federal government should implement a total withdrawal of the United States Marine Corps from Okinawa, Japan.
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
==Contention 2 is the DPJ== 



The recent Upper House election jeopardizes the DPJ’s agenda—resolving Okinawa is the key issue

<span class="cite">Stars and Stripes</span>—an independent news source that operates from inside the United States Department of Defense but is editorially separate from it, <span class="cite">07/14</span>/2010 (“Japan election could impede Futenma progress,” Byline David Allen and Chiyomi Sumida, July 14th, Available Online at http://www.stripes.com/news/japan-election-could-impede-futenma-progress-1.110973, Accessed 07-19-2010)

<span class="underline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">The poor showing</span> …<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Okinawa</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Okada said. </span>

<span class="Tag0"><span style="font-family: "Copperplate Gothic Bold","sans-serif";"> </span></span>

<span class="underline">Next, the DPJ loss of control in the Upper House has resulted in a political stalemate which will stall Kan’s agenda until he can fix his popularity – public opinion is key<span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>

<span class="cite">Kin 7/15/10 [</span>Kwan Weng Kin; writer for the Strait Times; 7/15/10; “The Mess in Japanese Politics”; Strait Times; <span style="color: black;">http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=13134&sec=3</span>]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What a fine mess …with foreign countries.  </span>

[[#_Toc265511574]][[#_Toc265513280]][[#_Toc265582339]]

Two internal links: 



First, Hatoyoma’s resignation passed on the Okinawa burden to Kan and resulted in the DPJ losing its majority—The only way to compensate for this and pass the DPJ agenda is for Kan to appeal to the public

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Financial Times, </span></span>7/12/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, ("Kan carries the can for DPJ failures", http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/cb2af396-8de3-11df-9153-00144feab49a.html//avi))



<span class="DebateUnderline">The setbacks are … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">them to try. </span>



Second, resolving Okinawa is the only route to DPJ popularity – there’s almost unanimous opposition against it and it would change public view as the DPJ no longer flip-flopping on their promises 

<span class="cite">Irish Times 6/26/10</span> [The Irish Times; 6/26/10; “Okinawa's US base took one PM down, can it take another?”; The Irish Times http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/world/2010/0626/1224273366535.html]

<span class="underline">“This is only … you can’t do.”  </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kan needs wins to get other parties on his side – this will allow him to get his agenda through with an Upper House majority </span></span>

<span class="cite">Klinger 7/15/10</span> [Bruce Klingner is a senior research fellow for Northeast Asia at the Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center; 7/15/10;More Political Stalemate For Japan; Asia Times; <span style="color: black;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LG15Dh01.html</span>]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kan already faces… or international influence.

</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>

Withdrawal solves—Okinawan support is the biggest influence in Japanese politics – Hatoyama proves

(Justyna Szczudlik-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tatar</span></span>, The Polish Institute of International Affairs, 4/28/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, ("The Issue of the Futenma Base on Okinawa in the Japan–US Relations", Google Docs//avi))



<span class="DebateUnderline">Today the Japanese …</span>states (other than China)


<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Subpoint A is the Economy



Kan’s agenda key to Japanese economy

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ </span></span>Tomoyuki Tachikawa, Dow Jones Newswires, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">6/18</span></span>, 2010 “Correct: Japan Govt Aims For Growth Through Investments, Tax Cuts” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100618-703746.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines 

<span class="DebateUnderline">Prime Minister Naoto <span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">…economy cannot revive.</span>"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>

Financial reforms are vital to prevent Japanese economic collapse.

<span class="cite">International Monetary Fund</span>, <span class="cite">2010</span> (“IMF Calls for Japan to Rein In Debt,” July 14th, Available Online at http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/survey/so/2010/CAR071410B.htm, Accessed 07-20-2010)

<span class="underline">Despite the projected …investment**,” said Gordo**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

Japanese economic collapse causes global economic decline, protectionism, and collapse of democracy

Michael <span class="cite">Auslin</span>, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, February 17, <span class="cite">2009</span>, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, many </span><span class="underline">economists</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="underline"> heavily armed region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



Free trade solves extinction

**Copley News Service ‘99** [Dec 1, Commentary, L/N]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For decades, many </span>__… be celebrating it.__ 



Democracy prevents multiple scenarios for extinction 

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond, 95</span></span> [Larry Diamond, a professor, lecturer, adviser, and author on foreign policy, foreign aid, and democracy.<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>

“Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict”, December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This hardly exhausts …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> can be built</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>

And, worldwide economic collapse causes global nuclear war. 

**Mead**, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2/4/**2009** (Walter Russell, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)

The damage to … __<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">have to fight</span>__. <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>


<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Subpoint B is Warming



A strong DPJ is key to passing climate legislation.

Risa<span class="cite"> Maeda and </span>Chisa<span class="cite"> Fujoka</span>, “Japan aims to pass climate bill by year end Climate talks”, 6-16-<span class="cite">2010</span>; Reporters for Eco-Business.Com, 

http://www.eco-business.com/news/2010/jun/16/japan-aims-pass-climate-bill-yr-end-un-talks/

<span class="underline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Japan will aim </span>… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">talks, including COP 16.  </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

Domestic action on climate change is key to bolster Japanese leadership on climate – that’s key to global action.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

Monir Hossain<span class="cite"> Moni</span>, May <span class="cite">2009</span>, “Why Japan’s Development Aid Matters Most for Dealing with Global Environmental Problems”, Asia Pacific Review: Volume 16, Issue 1, Pages 8-36; Ph.D, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies, Professor at the Univresity of Dhaka in Bangladesh, Japan Foreign Policy expert; d/a 7-19; Accessed via Informaworld Journals

<span class="underline">Environmental ODA has …<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> global environmental problems</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>



Finally—warming causes extinction.

Bill <span class="cite">Henderson</span>, 8-19-<span class="cite">2006</span>, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The scientific debate … world we share.  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>


==Contention 3 is the Alliance== 



<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Okinawa protests spillover to undermine the alliance</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>

Michael **Auslin<span class="cite">,</span>** director of Japan Studies at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, <span class="cite">06-16</span>-2010, “The Real Futenma Fallout” Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese military officials …</span> __national security establishment.__ 



Troop withdrawal from Okianwa is key to restoring the alliance

Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span>, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, Huffington Post, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and editor of the monthly political magazine Inquiry, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3/25</span></span>/2010, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html 



<span class="DebateUnderline">The Japanese …</span> -- after 65 long years



Even if the alliance doesn’t collapse, it will stagnate- triggers the impact

Bruce <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner</span></span>, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at Heritage, 8/26/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span> How to Save the U.S.-Japan Alliance 

Backgrounder #2308, http://www.heritage.org/Research/AsiaandthePacific/bg2308.cfm 

<span class="DebateUnderline">The truth is that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> around the world</span></span>**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">.</span>__** 
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Subpoint A is Taiwan



The US-Japan alliance is critical to stop Chinese aggression against Taiwan

Yukio <span class="Author-Date">Okamoto,</span> special advisor to the Japanese Prime Minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Sprin<span class="Author-Date">g 2002</span>, p. 59, AL

<span class="DebateUnderline">Regardless of whether …<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> a negotiated solution.</span>  </span>



This causes extinction

<span class="Author-Date">The Straits Times,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> June 25, </span><span class="Author-Date">2000</span><span class="NothingChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan. Straits Times. Lexis</span></span>

THE high-intensity …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> destruction of civilisation.</span></span> 
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Subpoint B is North Korea



US-Japan alliance is key to preventing North Korean War

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Okimoto</span></span> President of Okamoto Associates and Special Adviser to the Cabinet and Chairman of the Japanese prime minister's <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Task </span></span>Force on Foreign Relations 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span></span>

[Yukio, “Japan and the United States: The Essential Alliance,” spring 2002, Vol. 25, No. 2, http://www.twq.com/02spring/okamoto.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite its years…</span>__<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">. forces in Japan</span>__<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>



North Korean War goes nuclear

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN</span></span>, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span> 

[CNN, “N K. Warns of nuclear conflict,” 2/26/2003 , http://www.cnn.com/2003/WORLD/asiapcf/east/02/25/nkorea.missile/index.html] 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pyongyang cites upcoming …</span>__<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> of the Korean War</span>__<span style="-moz-background-clip: -moz-initial; -moz-background-inline-policy: -moz-initial; -moz-background-origin: -moz-initial; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>