[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC- Greenhill== 

**Contention One: Inherency**
**Obama’s attempt to further expand an interrogation facility at Bagram Air Base fails to comply with international norms**
**Vermelen 10** (Mathias, June 11, Research assistant of Martin Scheinin, the UN Special Rapporteur on the Protection of Human Rights while Countering Terrorism at the European University Institute., US seeks Afghan prison interrogation deal, http://legalift.wordpress.com/2010/06/11/us-seeks-afghan-prison-interrogation-deal/ LP) 
The United States is seeking a….and deprived of sleep. 

**And, Guantanamo’s close means an expansion for Bagram Air Base**
**Raustiala 09** ( Kal, May 27, director of the UCLA Burkle Center for International Relations and a professor at the UCLA Law School and the UCLA International Institute, where he teaches in the Program on Global Studies, Will Bagram Air Base become the new Guantanamo?, http://www.today.ucla.edu/portal/ut/will-bagram-air-base-become-the-93250.aspx) 
Thursday morning Barack Obama …be hearing more about: Bagram. 

**THUS WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING PLAN:**
**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD CLOSE BAGRAM AIRBASE.**
**WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.**


**Contention two: Advantages**
**Advantage One: International Law**

**Detainees at Bagram Airbase have no right to habeas corpus putting prisoners out of reach of lawyers and federal courts**
**Savage and Parsons 10** (David, Christi, Tribune Washington bureau David S. Cloud of the Washington bureau contributed to this report, Court: No habeas rights for prisoners in Afghanistan Obama wins what Bush sought: the right to hold suspects without judicial oversight at the Bagram air base. http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/21/nation/la-na-court-bagram-20100522 lp) 
Reporting from Washington — — The Obama ….not prohibit the facility's purchase. 

**The harsh conditions and the detention of prisoners without right to Habeas Corpus at Bagram airbase violates international law**
**Fisher 10** (William, March 05 ,2010, US-AFGHANISTAN Habeas Challenges for Bagram Prisoners , served as a member of the White House Committee on Export Promotion, consultant to U.S. government agencies, including the Department of State and the U.S. Agency for International Development, and to a number of governments and international organizations, written extensively on foreign policy, human rights, and the Middle East, http://ipsnorthamerica.net/news.php?idnews=2898) LP 
Four men who have been …run by US Special Forces. 

**International law incorporation key to democracy**
**Benvenisti 8** (Eyal, Professor of Law, Tel Aviv University, RECLAIMING DEMOCRACY: THE STRATEGIC USES OF FOREIGN AND INTERNATIONAL LAW BY NATIONAL COURTS, 102 A.J.I.L. 241) 
Not so long ago the …and international law. 

**Global democratic consolidation prevents many scenarios for war and extinction**
**Diamond 95** Larry Diamond, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, December 1995, Promoting Democracy in the 1990s, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm) 
OTHER THREATS This hardl…. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to …can be built. 


**Advantage Two: Human Rights**
**Detainee abuse at Bagram air base is a serious set back for human rights**
**Fisher 10** (William, May 26,2010, Rights Groups Condemn on Bagram Detainees, served as a member of the White House Committee on Export Promotion, consultant to U.S. government agencies, including the Department of State and the U.S. Agency for International Development, and to a number of governments and international organizations, written extensively on foreign policy, human rights, and the Middle East, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=51588) LP 
NEW YORK - Human rights ……secret evidence." 

**Torture and abuse of human rights continues at Bagram airbase but US officials continue to deny despite detainee testimony**
**Andersson 10** (Hilary, April 15, 2010, studied politics at Edinburgh University, BBC correspondent, Afghans 'abused at secret prison' at Bagram airbase, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8621973.stm LP) 
Afghan prisoners are…. allegations of abuse. 

**Torture towards prisoners brutalizes and dehumanizes them which is worse than any “ticking bomb” scenario**
**Pfiffner 05** (James P., June 2, 2005, University Professor of Public Policy at George Mason University. major areas of expertise are the Presidency, American National Government, and Public Management., panel member or on project staffs of the Volcker Commission, the National Academy of Public Administration (of which he is an elected member), the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and the National Academy of Sciences, service in the Director's Office of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, Torture and Public Management: The Ethics of Interrogation, http://soc.kuleuven.be/io/ethics/paper/Paper%20WS5_pdf/James%20Pfiffner.pdf LP) 
In the end, the most compelling arguments against torture are moral and practical rather than legal…. The practice of become a monster.”104 

**Dehumanization is the root cause of genocide, war crimes, and rights violations. It strips both the victims and the perpetrators of their humanity.**
**Maiese 03** [Michelle Maiese is a graduate student of Philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder and is a part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium: Beyond Intractability Version IV Copyright © 2003-2007 The Beyond Intractability Project: Guy Burgess and Heidi Burgess, Co-Directors and Editors. July 2003. Accessed 7/15/09.< http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/>] 
Once certain …,. however, is controversial. 


**GENOCIDE OUTWEIGHS ALL IMPACTS**
**Gur 81** (Harff-Gur, Northwestern, HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION AS A REMEDY FOR GENOCIDE, 1981, p. 40) 
One of the most enduring and abhorrent problems of the world is genocide, which is neither particular to a specific race, class, or nation, nor is it rooted in any one, ethnocentric view of the world. ….Prohibition of genocide universal concern. 

**Advantage Three: Middle East Stability**

**US detainment of prisoners at Bagram airbase is losing the hearts and minds Afghan citizens**
**Horowitz 2009** (Jonathan, Consultant for the Open Society Institute, “Bagram Prison Threatens Success in Afghanistan” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html) 
The U.S. military … supposed to be courting. 

**Bagram detention policies are counterproductive in its mission to stabilize Afghanistan, and only fuel the enemy**
**Serwer 09** ( Adam, October 29, 2009, fellow at The American Prospect and a graduate of the Columbia University School of Journalism, Can Human Rights Win the War?, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=can_human_rights_win_the_war LP) 
When Marine Reserve Gen. Douglas Stone addressed New America's Counterterrorism Conference last week, he almost sounded … indoctrinate them." 

**Winning the War is key to Middle East Stability**
**Nagl et al. 2009** (John, President for Center for a New American Security, Andrew Bacevich, Professor of history and International Relations @ Boston University, and Erin M. Simpson, Former professor at the Marine Command and Staff College, “Is the War in Afghanistan Worth Fighting?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/08/31/AR2009083103131.html Waldman) 
America has …, but we've really only just begun. 

**Afghan instability spillover to Pakistan sends off a nuclear security threat to the world**
**Brown 10** (6/23/10, VANDA FELBAB, professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service The Sydney Herald, “In Afghanistan the Cost in Sacrifice is High, But that cost must be paid,” http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/politics/in-afghanistan-the-cost-in-sacrifice-is-high-but-that-cost-must-be-paid-20100622-yvgp.html) 
The long hot spring and summer in … defeated by the salafists in Afghanistan. 

**Pakistani instability results in a coup**
Stephen John **Morgan, 2007** (Stephen John, former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory; wrote “The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist – the Cult of Al Qaeda,”; lived and worked in more than 27 different countries including crisis situations in Northern Ireland and Yugoslavia, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) 
Fundamentalism is deeply rooted … against the US. 

**Pakistani coup causes radical takeover of there nuclear arsenal creating a scenario for short term nuclear exchange**
**Rosenbaum**, **2007** (Ron. “Talkin' World War IIIThe return of the repressed” Nov. 29,http://www.slate.com/id/2178792/pagenum/3/) 
I don't want to be …unforeseeable nightmare. 

**Indo-Pak Nuclear war results in extinction**
**Fai, 2001** (Dr. Ghulam, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council; invited by the European Parliament to present a briefing paper for "Kashmir Round- Table," held in Brussels in October 1993, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir”, July 8th, 2001. Washington Times.) 
The foreign policy of the …Material/Cut-off Convention. 


**This it the most likely scenario for extinction**
**Ferguson,07** (Niall, Ph.D., Prof. of History at Harvard, William Ziegler Prof., Harvard Business School, 6-18-2007. [Los Angeles Times, Should we simply ignore the Mideast? http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/la-oe-ferguson18jun18,0,5521291.column?coll=la-opinion-rightrail] 
For some … a recipe for Armageddon. 


**Contention Three: Solvency**

**The U.S has the obligation to prevent acts of torture**
**Center for Human Rights and Global Justice 06** (Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, Enabling Torture: 
International Law Applicable to State Participation in the Unlawful Activities of Other States (New York: 
NYU School of Law, 2006 , www.chrgj.org/docs/BriefingPaperEnablingTorture.pdf) 
What are a State’s primary human rights obligations? Prevent torture and CID treatment The prohibition against torture in international … obligation will be dealt with next. 


**Closing the base would help us win the war- hearts and minds of Afghans and the U.S. strategy in Afghanistan**
**Ally 2009** (Sahr Muhammed , Senior Associate in the Law and Security Program @ Human Rights First, “An examination of Detention and Trials of Bagram Detainees in April 2009” http://www.humanrightsfirst.info/pdf/HRF-Undue-Process-Afghanistan-web.pdf) 
Consistent with international law …to take these steps.138 



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]