[[toc]]
For Aff questions/cites, email [[mailto:byang188@gmail.com|byang188@gmail.com]]
For Neg questions/cites, email [[mailto:evanj39@gmail.com|evanj39@gmail.com]]
=<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan 1AC - Valley</span>== 


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention One is Institutional Politics</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">The U.S.-Japan Alliance is being prioritized over the interests of Okinawa as a result of exclusive realist paradigm—U.S. military presence in Okinawa functions as the crucial faultline to define ‘security’ in Japan.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, Accessed 07-26-2010, p. 85-86)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 115%;">The diminishing population…outside of Okinawa.</span>** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">As a result, we find the latest instance of colonial violence, where the status quo is waging war on the daily lives of Okinawans. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, p. 96-101)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Gavan McCormack describes… future of Okinawa.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">This dominant conception of ‘security’ not only allows the justification of US military presence in Okinawa but ensures global military violence that kills millions.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(McCormack 10)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Gavan McCormack, Emeritus Professor and Visiting Fellow in the Division of Pacific and Asian History at the Australian National University, 2010 (“The Travails of a Client State: An Okinawan Angle on the 50th Anniversary of the US-Japan Security Treaty,” Japan Focus, March 12th, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.ips-dc.org/articles/the_travails_of_a_client_state]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, Accessed 07-26-2010)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">While official 50th … Okinawa as a result. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Furthermore, the militarism that the status quo perpetuates jeopardizes our very survival. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Pollard 03)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Irina Pollard, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, 2003 (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics, Volume 13, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, Accessed 07-26-2010)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The hostile actions … human over-appropriation. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention Two is Gendered Violence</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">First, US military presence is justified through the reinforcement and exploitation of gender stereotypes. We must reconstruct our concept of security within this sphere to end this violence. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Kirk & Feffer 08) </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Gwyn, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of World Policy Journal. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">]</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The power dynamics … benefit Okinawan people</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">As a result of this justification and sexual exploitation, it leads to violence equivalent to gendered warfare—it causes incalculable suffering and affects entire communities.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Chowdhury 02)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">works in a domestic abuse help office (Rumna, “Kadic v Karadzic – rape as a crime against women as a class” 20 Laq & Ineq J 91)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Feminist scholars have … has traditionally received</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Ultimately, Gendered Security based on Hierarchies is a self perpetuating prophecy– it perpetuates a cycle of violence that will escalate into a doomed cycle. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Nhanenge 07)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The androcentric premises … than these experts. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Thus we present the following plan, </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">We’ll clarify.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention Three is Solvency </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">First, Plan is key in opening up the discussion of security on an international scale, it means to reconceptualize dominant discourse in Asia </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">and the rest of the world to consider the individual. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Tanji 07)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Miyume Tanji, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa and several other publications, 2007 (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, p. 11-12)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">As discussed in this paper … and grown up either.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Second, Okinawan protests and actions are linked to grass root movements worldwide - heeding Okinawan demand would be a rallying cry against militarism and pave the way for a new order of genuine international security</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Tanji 03)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Miyume, Ph.D, Research Fellow @ CAASP, Curtin University, Professor of Political Science and International Relations @ Sophia University, Australian National University, and Murdoch University, “THE ENDURING MYTH OF AN OKINAWAN STRUGGLE: THE HISTORY AND TRAJECTORY OF A DIVERSE COMMUNITY OF PROJECT”, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://wwwlib.murdoch.edu.au/adt/pubfiles/adt-MU20040510.152840/02Whole.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, pgs. 19-20]</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Chapter 8 focuses on … global civil society.</span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Third, plan is key to redefine and reimagine security, this is key to breaking out of the violent dominant discourse. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, p. 102-103)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The May 2006 U.S …must be reworked. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Fourth, Withdrawal is key to actualize Okinawan feminism—our methodology precludes nuclear proliferation and achieves perpetual peace.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Cornell 04)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Drucilla Cornell, Professor of Political Science, Comparative Literature, and Women's Studies at Rutgers University, 2004 (Defending Ideals: War, Democracy, And Political Struggles, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415948835, p. 115-116)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">In Okinawa, Japan, … ideal—of perpetual peace. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Rejection of the rape and other violence committed by U.S. soldiers is essential to allow women of Okinawa to resist the myth of cultural homogeneity and US military power – proves the identity politics of the plan are positive.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Angst 01)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Linda Isako Angst, asst. prof of anthropology @ Lewis and Clark, 2001, The Sacrifice of a Schoolgirl: The 1995 Rape Case, Discourses of Power, and Women’s Lives in Okinawa, p. 248</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Finally, not only … of Okinawan subjugation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Your counterplans aren’t enough, only a total withdrawal from Okinawa will be able to solve and redefine security. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Shin et al. 10)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Chiba Shin, Professor of Political Thought at the International Christian University, et al., co-signed with 38 prominent scholars and professionals in Japan and Okinawa, 2010 (“For the Withdrawal of the US Marines: (Second) Statement on the Futenma Replacement Problem,” April 27th, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?p=6871]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, Accessed 07-19-2010)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The US Marine … to begin this task. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Dominant realist conceptions of security are flawed, vote aff to challenge the hierarchies within the system and breakdown threat construction. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">, Accessed 07-26-2010, p. 89-92)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">‘Ideas are power … within those foundations. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Finally, continued U.S. military presence on Okinawa has no strategic value—the case outweighs their security DA.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">(Network For Okinawa 10)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Network For Okinawa, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, 2010 (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The U.S. Marine … buildup in Guam.</span>

==﻿Japan 1AC - Caucus== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention One is Institutional Politics</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S.-Japan Alliance is being prioritized over the interests of Okinawa as a result of exclusive realist paradigm—U.S. military presence in Okinawa functions as the crucial faultline to define ‘security’ in Japan.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, Accessed 07-26-2010, p. 85-86)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The diminishing population […] outside of Okinawa. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">As a result, we find the latest instance of colonial violence, where the status quo is waging war on the daily lives of Okinawans. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Mantle 06) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gavan McCormack describes […] future of Okinawa.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This dominant conception of ‘security’ not only allows the justification of US military presence in Okinawa but ensures global military violence that kills millions. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(McCormack 10) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gavan McCormack, Emeritus Professor and Visiting Fellow in the Division of Pacific and Asian History at the Australian National University, 2010 (“The Travails of a Client State: An Okinawan Angle on the 50th Anniversary of the US-Japan Security Treaty,” Japan Focus, March 12th, Available Online at http://www.ips-dc.org/articles/the_travails_of_a_client_state, Accessed 07-26-2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">While official 50th […] Okinawa as a result. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Furthermore, the militarism that the status quo perpetuates jeopardizes our very survival.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Pollard 03)</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Irina Pollard, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, 2003 (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics, Volume 13, Available Online at http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm, Accessed 07-26-2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The hostile actions […] human over-appropriation. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention Two is Gendered Violence </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">First, US military presence is justified through the reinforcement and exploitation of gender stereotypes. We must reconstruct our concept of security within this sphere to end this violence. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Kirk & Feffer 08) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gwyn, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of World Policy Journal. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The power dynamics […] benefit Okinawan people. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Each instance of Rape and sexual violence is dehumanizing and must be rejected.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Halley 08) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Janet is Royall Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. Fall 2008. “ARTICLE: RAPE AT ROME: FEMINIST INTERVENTIONS IN THE CRIMINALIZATION OF SEX-RELATED VIOLENCE IN POSITIVE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL LAW” Michigan Journal of International Law. 30 Mich. J. Int'l L. 1)</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Emphasis on the gender […] and subordinating women.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Ultimately, Gendered Security based on Hierarchies is a self perpetuating prophecy– it perpetuates a cycle of violence that will escalate into a doomed cycle. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Nhanenge 07) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The androcentric premises […] than these experts. (Kelly 1990: 112-114; Eisler 1990: 3233; Schumacher 1993: 20, 126, 128, 130). </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thus the plan </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We’ll clarify. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention Three is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">First, Plan is key in opening up the discussion of security on an international scale, it means to reconceptualize dominant discourse in Asia and the rest of the world to consider the individual. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Tanji 07) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Miyume Tanji, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa and several other publications, 2007 (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">As discussed in this […] and grown up either.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Second, Okinawan protests and actions are linked to grass root movements worldwide - heeding Okinawan demand would be a rallying cry against militarism and pave the way for a new order of genuine international security </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Tanji 03) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Miyume, Ph.D, Research Fellow @ CAASP, Curtin University, Professor of Political Science and International Relations @ Sophia University, Australian National University, and Murdoch University, “THE ENDURING MYTH OF AN OKINAWAN STRUGGLE: THE HISTORY AND TRAJECTORY OF A DIVERSE COMMUNITY OF PROJECT”, http://wwwlib.murdoch.edu.au/adt/pubfiles/adt-MU20040510.152840/02Whole.pdf, pgs. 19-20]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chapter 8 focuses on […] global civil society. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Next, the plan spurs a chain of global movement against US basing and militarism.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Feffer 10) </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">John Feffer 3-6-10 the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies “Okinawa and the new domino effect” </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html]]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Wherever the US […] arrow is pointing.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Fourth, plan is key to redefine and reimagine security, this is key to breaking out of the violent dominant discourse. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Mantle 06) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 102-103)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The May 2006 U.S. […] must be reworked. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Fifth, Withdrawal is key to actualize Okinawan feminism—our methodology precludes nuclear proliferation and achieves perpetual peace. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Cornell 04) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Drucilla Cornell, Professor of Political Science, Comparative Literature, and Women's Studies at Rutgers University, 2004 (Defending Ideals: War, Democracy, And Political Struggles, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415948835, p. 115-116)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In Okinawa, Japan, […] of perpetual peace. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Rejection of the rape and other violence committed by U.S. soldiers is essential to allow women of Okinawa to resist the myth of cultural homogeneity and US military power – proves the identity politics of the plan are positive. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Angst 01) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Linda Isako Angst, asst. prof of anthropology @ Lewis and Clark, 2001, The Sacrifice of a Schoolgirl: The 1995 Rape Case, Discourses of Power, and Women’s Lives in Okinawa, p. 248</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Finally, not only […] symbol of Okinawan subjugation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Your counterplans aren’t enough, only a total withdrawal from Okinawa will be able to solve and redefine security. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Shin 10) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chiba Shin, Professor of Political Thought at the International Christian University, et al., co-signed with 38 prominent scholars and professionals in Japan and Okinawa, 2010 (“For the Withdrawal of the US Marines: (Second) Statement on the Futenma Replacement Problem,” April 27th, Available Online at http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?p=6871, Accessed 07-19-2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The US Marine […] to begin this task. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Dominant realist conceptions of security are flawed, vote aff to challenge the hierarchies within the system and breakdown threat construction.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Mantle 06)</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, Accessed 07-26-2010, p. 89-92)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">‘Ideas are power; […] within those foundations. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Finally, continued U.S. military presence on Okinawa has no strategic value—the case outweighs their security DA.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Network For Okinawa 10)</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Network For Okinawa, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, 2010 (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The U.S. Marine […] destructive buildup in Guam.</span>


==Afghanistan 1AC - Rough Rider== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention One is Inherency </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. The military will prevent any Afghan withdrawal**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Schmitt et al 10)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Eric Schmitt, Helene Cooper, David E. Sanger, New York Times, August 11, 2010, “U.S. Military to Press for Slower Afghan Drawdown”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/12/world/asia/12policy.html?pagewanted=1&partner=rss&emc=rss&src=ig </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WASHINGTON — American military officials […] to get their work done.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. There’s no way we’re withdrawing in 2011 – base expansions prove**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Linkins 10)</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jason Linkins (political reporter for the Huffington Post), Huffington Post, August 9, 2010, “U.S. Expands Its Footprint At Bagram Air Force Base”, accessed September 14, 2010, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/08/09/us-expands-its-footprint_n_675566.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Sometime around the spring of 2011 […] air base an hour away from Kabul." </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thus, plan: </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in Afghanistan. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We reserve the right to clarify </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention Two is Advantages, Advantage One is Collateral Damage </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Dorronsoro 10/7) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro (visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), Foreign Policy, October 7, 2010, “Think Again: The Afghan Surge”, accessed October 18, 2010, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/07/think_again_the_afghan_surge</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"All We Need Is Time." […] United States and the Pakistani military. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Ullman 10)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">If that report were released in […] is likely to produce a lasting effect. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Ludwig 8/11)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The United Nations announced […] 3,268 killed or injured so far. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">4. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Akhtar 10)**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">As one can see, it was America's […] contentious issues is a laudable initiative.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">5. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Ricks 01)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The prospect of Pakistan being […] for Strategic and International Studies. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">6. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Robock and Toon 10) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">India and Pakistan, which together […] military bases with traditional forces.</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Advantage Two is the Graveyard of Empires </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Lieber 09) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In general, effective alternatives to the […] global liberal democratic order – depend on it.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. However, protracted mission failure in the Afghan war guarantees US hegemonic collapse </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Innocent and Carpenter 09)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Malou Innocent (foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan), and Ted Galen Carpenter (vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute), Cato Institute, September 11, 2009, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global […] undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Friedman 10)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">From the grand strategic point […] up forces and re-establish its ground reserves. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">4. Afghanistan occupation drains economic and military resources and political focus essential to maintain US foundations of power </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Walt 10)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thomas Wright has an interesting op-ed in […] overall quality of life here at home. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">5. Withdrawal from Afghanistan is key to revitalizing US soft power </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Zachary 09)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">G. Pascal Zachary (a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. Professor of journalism at Stanford University and fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Toward Freedom, October 12, 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, accessed August 12, 2010, http://www.towardfreedom.com/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Morality must return to the center of America's […] regional solutions to problems in distant lands.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">6. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Thayer 06)**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in […] international body time and again on matters great and trivial. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">7. US unipolarity empirically and comparatively maintains global stability </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Wohlforth 09)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Does unipolarity promote peace among major powers […] and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9 </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">8. Specifically, primacy checks seven scenarios for global war </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Kagan 07) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Such order as exists in the world rests not merely […] draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention Three is Solvency </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. Afghan withdrawal allows the US to refocus its power – solving stability, rising powers, and global cooperation without destabilizing the country </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Bajpai 10) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The Indian strategic community thinks […] not lose the woods for the trees. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. Withdrawal allows regional fill in that solves stability </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(Hadar 10)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">My guess is that a U.S. military disengagement would […] order to avoid a regional military conflagration.</span>



=<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">﻿Negative</span>= 

==﻿Consult NATO== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Counter Plan Text: The United States should engage in prior, binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether to (((PLAN))). The </span>United States<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> should advocate the plan throughout the process of consultation and should enact the result of consultation. </span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US influence ensures NATO says yes </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Webber 09)</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mark Webber, professor of politics, international relations and European Studies at Loughborough University (UK), “NATO: The United States, Transformation and the War in Afghanistan”, The British Journal of Politics and International Relations, January 21, 2009 [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-856X.2008.00349.x/full%20accessed%20August%2031|http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-856X.2008.00349.x/full accessed August 31]], 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No one would deny […] Washington summit in 1999. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC - NATO Collapse Neg Benifit </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US – NATO relations high but remains vulnerable to US unilateralism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Slocombe 10) </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Walter B. Slocombe “Towards A New NATO Strategic Concept A View from the United States” Perspective, June 2010 http://library.fes.de/pdf-files/id/ipa/07299.pdf accessed August 5, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nonetheless, NATO remains […] interests than their own.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(((INSERT SPECIFIC LINK))) </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NATO key to deal with political violence and prevent nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Brzezinski 09) </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zbigniew Brzezinski, former U.S. National Security Adviser, Sept/Oct 2009, “An Agenda for NATO,” Foreign Affairs, 88.5, Ebsco</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NATO's potential is not […] and the West more generally.</span>

==NATO Links== 

===Afghanistan=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The war is run by the US – consultation is key to preserve the alliance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**(NATO Watch 10)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">No Author Given, NATO Watch, Think tank on NATO policymaking, July 2010, Observatory no. 11, p.2</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The real issue in Afghanistan is not the Runaway […] prove detrimental to the alliance. </span>


===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Asia</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Consultation over Asia is key to the NATO alliance** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Rasmussen 10) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO secretary General, Voltaire Net, February 7, 2010, “Speech by Anders Fogh Rasmussen at the 46th Munich Security Conference”, http://www.voltairenet.org/article163917.html accessed August 31, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">So let me get straight to business. In my […] own thoughts on this as well. </span>


===Middle East=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Consultation on Middle Eastern issues is key to the alliance**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Kaye 03)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Dalia Kaye, assistant professor of political science and international affairs at the George washing university and a council on foreign relations international affairs fellow at the Netherlands ministry of foreign affairs” Bound to Cooperate? Transatlantic Policy in the Middle East” Winter 2003, The Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/04winter/docs/04winter_kaye.pdf%20accessed%20August%2031|http://www.twq.com/04winter/docs/04winter_kaye.pdf accessed August 31]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, 2010</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Since the United States presented […] cooperation on core Middle East policy issues. </span>



===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">TNW’s</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Consultation over TNW’s is CRITICAL – unilateral decision-making will fracture the alliance, unity, and credibility**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Schlesinger 08)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">James R. Schlesinger, former secretary of defense, “Report of the Secretary of Defense Task Force on DoD Nuclear Weapons Management”, Defense Link, December 2008, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.defenselink.mil/pubs/pdfs/PhaseIIReportFinal.pdf%20accessed%20August%2031|http://www.defenselink.mil/pubs/pdfs/PhaseIIReportFinal.pdf accessed August 31]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, 2010</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The Special Case of NATO Even though their number […] on the perceptions of our allies elsewhere. </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Philippines DA </span>== 



**Abandonment of COIN in Afghanistan spills over and ends US counter-insurgent efforts in the Philippines**
**(Henriksen 09)**
Thomas Henriksen (Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution and the U.S. Joint Special Operations University), National Post, November 3, 2009, “As goes Afghanistan ...”, accessed September 6, 2010, [[http://network.nationalpost.com/np/blogs/fullcomment/archive/2009/11/03/thomas-henriksen-as-goes-afghanistan.aspx]]

The outcome of the Afghanistan strategy […] to threaten the United States.


**Without US aid the Philippines will be overwhelmed and focus their meager military on the internal insurgency, opening the door to Chinese claims over the Spratly Islands**
**(Castro and Lohman 10)**
Renato de Castro (in the International Studies Department of De La Salle University (Manila) and holds the Dr. Aurelio Calderon Professorial Chair of Philippine–American Relations), and Walter Lohman (Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation), Heritage Foundation, June 28, 2010, “Empowering a New Era in the United States–Philippines Security Alliance”, accessed September 7, 2010, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/06/empowering-a-new-era-in-the-united-states-philippines-security-alliance]]

During the Cold War, the U.S., with its military […] security crisis in East Asia.


**Chinese aggression in the Spratlys sparks US- Sino war**
**(Bodansky 06)**
Yossef Bodansky (Director of the Task Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare of the U.S. Congress, as well as the World Terrorism Analyst with the Freeman Center for Strategic Studies, former senior consultant for the Department of Defense and the Department of State), Freeman Institute for Strategic Studies, 2006, “BEIJING'S SURGE FOR THE STRAIT OF MALACCA”, accessed September 7, 2010, [[http://www.freeman.org/m_online/bodansky/beijing.htm]]

By 1993, the PLA High Command [….] Sea will become a second Persian Gulf!"

==**<span style="border-bottom: #000000 1px solid; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Hegemony DA</span>**== 
**1. The US possesses strong power foundations– but its role abroad is not guaranteed**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">In general...depend on it.</span>

**2. Withdrawal destroys US credibility and power projection**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Thus, it is no surprise...align themselves with the United States.</span>

**3. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute,September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The jostling... unfavorable circumstances.</span>


==[[#Negative-Security K]]<span style="border-bottom: #000000 1px solid; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Security Critique]]Security K**</span>== 

**1. The 1AC calls into existence a world inhabited by dangerous flaws in need of correction at all costs - the image of catastrophe is not an objective depiction of the way things are, but a rallying cry to eliminate otherness**

David Campbell, Professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle, Writing Security, pp. 47-8. 1998.

To talk of the endangered...acting as a bridge.

**2. V****iolence is inevitable****—the affirmative will always be able to locate external threats - however, the desire to fight against external dangers gives way to a war on difference**

<span style="color: black;">James Der Derian, Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University ON SECURITY</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, 32-4</span>

Originating in the...desire for security.

**3. The end result is total war and genocide – representations of extraordinary risk ensure astonishing violence**

Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k <span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">[//Peace and Conflict Studies// 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,”<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>]</span>

The problem...never questioned.

**4. The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s logic of security – only through rejection can we allow actual political thought**

Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 08 [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way...return the gift.[[Sioux Falls Lincoln - Evan Jones & Bryant Yang]]