[[toc]]
For neg cites email: [[mailto:savonayodeji@gmail.com|savonayodeji@gmail.com]]
For aff cites email: [[mailto:ana.calizo@gmail.com|ana.calizo@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Wake Forest - Khorasan 1AC== 
__Observation 1: The Language of War__

Khorasan has been labeled a “good war”. But War is hell and Khorasan is no exception. Pilots have run out of ‘military’ targets and are now destroying homes, hospitals, storage warehouses and refugee camps.

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Jaffry ’10</span>
(Abdul-Majid, Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer, “Afghanistan War -- A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction”, 5-26, [[http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378]])

The frightening death…children of Afghanistan.


We see this debate as a chance to make a critical stance against the discursive violence against Khorasani womyn and US representations of Khorasani womyn as unprotected, disowned by their own culture, and in need of US “liberation” to hide us colonialist policies. We realize these representational and discursive practices shape our actions toward Khorasan and need to be addressed thus we offer the following advocacy:

The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in Khorasan. We’ll Clarify

__Observation 2: War on the Muslim Identity__

1. Our invasion of Khorasan is a perfect example of how our representations and discourse on the Muslim other as “terrorists”, and womyn abusers was used to justify American imperialism and colonialism

Bowles and Ayub ‘4
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Matthew T. Bowles Independent Scholar and Fatima Ayub Johns Hopkins University, “Liberating Muslim Women” as Colonial Discourse: Gendering the US Conquest of Afghanistan”, August 14-17, 2004, [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/1/0/8/7/pages110879/p110879-1.php|http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/1/0/8/7/pages110879/p110879-1.php]], Accessed 8/15/10] soap</span>

Western representations of…for this aggression

__Scenario 1: Linguistic colonialism__

1. The name Afghanistan is the product of colonial domination

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Rupee News ‘10</span>

Rupee News “The British constructed ‘Afghanistan’ as a buffer state from remnants of Khorasan”. July 15, 2010. [[http://rupeenews.com/2010/07/15/the-origins-of-the-british-construct-of-afghanistan-buffer-lie-in-the-state-of-khorasan/]]

The Afghans did not…always been Khurassan

2. Using the name “Afghanistan” endorses a history of violence and colonization

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nazary ‘6</span>

Ali Maisam Nazary is a student in Politics at UCLA who was born in Kabul. He is a contributor to Khawaran Magazine and has a weekly TV show. June 2006. “Name Change in Afghanistan.”
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.khawaran.com/Engl_AliMuslimNazari_NameChangeInAfghanistan.htm]]</span>



Even to this day…and sectarian violence

3. Refusing to use the name “Afghanistan” in the place of Khorasan is key to solve linguistic colonialism and domination

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Tajikam ‘8</span>

Team Tajikam is a team of Tajiks who are upset with the current oppression and Pashto domination. February 5 2008. “I am Tajik, not Afghan.” [[http://www.fravahr.org/spip.php?article424]]

The threat of…the name afghan

__Scenario 2: Clash of Civilizations__

1. Depictions of Khorasani men with weapons and as terrorist create a clash of civilizations where war is legitimized to destroy the “Islamic” other

<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 50%; display: block;">Cloud ‘4</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[Dana L. Cloud, Associate Professor of Communication Studies at the University of Texas, “To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations in the Imagery of the U.S. War on Terrorism, published on 2004, [[http://courses.essex.ac.uk/gv/gv905/W%2017%20coud_terror_afghan_women.pdf]], Accessed 7/17/10] soap</span>

Finally, images posses…treatment of women

2. Terrorism is a fabricated threat used to instill fear in the population – the discourse surrounding terror is the root of American imperialism


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Said ‘1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">(Edward, university professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University, International Socialist Review, Aug/Sep 2001</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Terrorism/Resistance_Terrorism_Said.html) JPG</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">First of all…to intimidate people</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">3. Representations of terror turn into racist forms of discrimination</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Bizri 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">(Siwar, Policy Analyst @ SAIC, 11/16/7, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-12042007-153628/unrestricted/finalthesis.pdf) JPG</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">research shows that…discrimination and stereotyping</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">4. Racism is both institutional and individual but focusing only on the individual allows it to thrive</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Bardnt ’91</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">[Joseph Bardnt -ordained minister Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Racism can be expressed…to our benefit</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">5. A stance against the institutional walls of racism is the only mechanism for survival</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Bardnt ’91</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">[Joseph Bardnt -ordained minister Director of Crossroads, a nonprofit Organization; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33]</span>

To study racism…it to continue

<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 50%; display: block; font-size: 14pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">Robinson 5</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Executive Director of Pax Christi USA David-; “The Racism at the Core of US Nuclear Weapons Policy; COMMONDREAMS.org; May 15; [[http://www.commondreams.org/views05/0515-22.htm]] )</span>

Over the years…deadly toll today


Scenario 2: The Burqa


1. The US uses images of Khorasani womyn behind veils and under oppression to legitimize their military intervention because they must be the “protectors”

Ayotte and Hussain ‘5
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Kevin J. Ayotte, Mary E. Hussain, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, Accessed 7/16/10) soap</span>

There seems to…as pure benevolence

2. The US drive to “unveil” Khorasani womyn is a patriarchal process that only covers Khorasani feminist agency and conform them to US feminist values

Ayotte and Hussain ‘5
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Kevin J. Ayotte, Associate Professor California State University Department of Communication, Mary E. Hussain, Professor at CSU Fresno, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, Accessed 7/16/10) soap</span>

Third, the fetishization…to epistemological registers


__Observation 3: Solvency__

1. Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the Khorasani war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives – key to solvency

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Crowe ‘7</span>

(Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in) Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])

The historical production…is being disappeared

Systemic harms come first in the evaluation process
Mohan 93,
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Brij Professor at LSU, ECLIPSE OF FREEDOM p. 3-4. (DRGCL/B1049)</span>

Metaphors of existence…are concerned about

Racism comes first
Memmi 2K
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span>
Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165

The struggle against…to someone else

4. Westernized ‘aid’ undermines systems of resilience key to a winning in Khorasani

Brodsky 10
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Anne Brodsky PhD – </span><span style="display: block; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Associate Professor and Associate Chair of Psychology, UMBC; Has interviewed more than two hundred Afghan women, children, and men about Afghan women’s risk and resilience; Author, //With All//</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Our Strength</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Routledge, 2003)</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">; “Centuries of threat, centuries of resistance: The lessons of Afghan women’s resilience”, (p.) in //Land of the Unconquerable: The Lives of Contemporary Afghan Women//, (editors: Jennifer Heath, Ashraf Zahedi), University of California Press 7/12/10 </span>

Today, Afghan women…hope’s can dream’s

==GDS - Khurassan 1AC== 

Same Aff:
Replaced Khorasan spelling with Khurassan
Replaced Robinson with
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">Racism is the driving force to nuclear weapon policies </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green 98</span></span>
[Green, Jim. Writer @ Green Left. //Nuclear Racism and Nuclear Colonialism.// Green Left Weekly. 1998. Accessed: 09/21/2010. < http://www.sea-us.org.au/no2reactor/stoopidnnukes.html>] Ana
Racism makes the...means in practice

==Bronx - Neo-Gender 1AC== 

Afghanistan has been labeled a “good war”. But War is hell and Afghanistan is no exception. Pilots have run out of ‘military’ targets and are now destroying homes, hospitals, storage warehouses and refugee camps.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Jaffry ’10</span></span> (Abdul-Majid, Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer, “ Afghanistan War -- A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction”, 5-26, [[http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378]])
War admonished, "War… children of Afghanistan.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government will substantially reduce its military and police presence in the Geographical area known as the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. We’ll clarify</span>

Observation 2: Colonialism

Our invasion was based on orientalist understandings of the “eastern other” that were used to justify violent neocolonialism and imperialism
Bowles and Ayub ‘4 [Matthew T. Bowles Independent Scholar and Fatima Ayub Johns Hopkins University, “Liberating Muslim Women” as Colonial Discourse: Gendering the US Conquest of Afghanistan”, August 14-17, 2004, http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/1/0/8/7/pages110879/p110879-1.php, Accessed 8/15/10] soap//
//Western representations of… for this aggression.//

//Neocolonialism is imperialism in its final and most dangerous stage//
//Nkrumah’66 [KWAME NKRUMAH, FIRST PRIME MINISTER AND PRESIDENT OF GHANA, “NEO-COLONIALISM: THE LAST STAGE OF IMPERIALISM” PUBLISHED 1966, http://www.marxists.org/subject/africa/nkrumah/neo-colonialism/introduction.htm,Accessed 9/26/10] DEV//
//THE neo-colonialism of… directed from outside.//

//Neocolonialism is the breeding ground for limited wars//
//Nkrumah’66 [KWAME NKRUMAH, FIRST PRIME MINISTER AND PRESIDENT OF GHANA, “NEO-COLONIALISM: THE LAST STAGE OF IMPERIALISM” PUBLISHED 1966, http://www.marxists.org/subject/africa/nkrumah/neo-colonialism/introduction.htm,Accessed 9/26/10] DEV//
//Non-alignment, as… of nuclear conflict.//

//Continued colonial oppression will compound the genocidal effects ending in extinction//
//Porter ‘98//
//Robert B. Porter, Seneca and Professor of Law and Director of the Tribal Law and Government Center,//
//University of Kansas, Chief Justice, Supreme Court of the Sac and Fox Nation, 21 University of Michigan Journal//
//of Law and Reform, 1998//
//Nonetheless, this otherwise… point of extinction//

//Observation 3: Gender War//

//September 11, 2001 was not only the beginning of a lethal and endless war on terror but it marked the day the United States lost its virginity//
//Riley et al ‘8 [Robin L. Riley, Assistant Professor of women’s studies at Syracuse University. She is co-editor with Naeem Inayatullah of ‘Interrogating Imperialism: Conversations on Gender, Race, and War (2006), Chandra Talpade Mohanty, Professor of Women’s studies and Dean’s Professor of the Humanities at Syracuse University. Her most recent book is ‘Feminism without Borders: Decolonizing theory, Practicing Solidarity (2003), Minnie Bruce Pratt, Professor of Women’s and Gender Studies at Syracuse University; a co-author of ‘Yours in Struggle: Three Feminist Perspectives on Anti-Semitism and Racism’ (1984); and an organizer with the National Women’s Fight-back Network. “Feminism and War: Confronting U.S. Imperialism”, 2008, Book pg. 118-119] soap//
//Consider the range… indicates a prior lack.//

//We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios//

//Scenario 1: Terrorist Bodies//

//After 9/11 America felt exposed and feminized thus we began to feminize terrorist bodies – calling them cowardly and weak to justify our violent revenge//
//Riley et al ‘8 [Robin L. Riley, Assistant Professor of women’s studies at Syracuse University. She is co-editor with Naeem Inayatullah of ‘Interrogating Imperialism: Conversations on Gender, Race, and War (2006), Chandra Talpade Mohanty, Professor of Women’s studies and Dean’s Professor of the Humanities at Syracuse University. Her most recent book is ‘Feminism without Borders: Decolonizing theory, Practicing Solidarity (2003), Minnie Bruce Pratt, Professor of Women’s and Gender Studies at Syracuse University; a co-author of ‘Yours in Struggle: Three Feminist Perspectives on Anti-Semitism and Racism’ (1984); and an organizer with the National Women’s Fight-back Network. “Feminism and War: Confronting U.S. Imperialism”, 2008, Book pg. 118-119] soap//
//It is deplorably… no rehabilitation program.//

//The notion of the “terrorist” is not new. Current efforts like counterterrorism and counterinsurgency are just manifestations of violent heterosexual patriotism used to “correct the other”//
//Puar and Rai ‘2 [Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002] soap//
//How are gender… to be corrected.//

//The terrorist body turns into the ‘terrorist-monster’ mobilizing discursive practices that inevitably give birth to the emergence of biopolitics//
//Rai ‘2//
//[Rai, Amit S. Associate Professor, PhD, 1996 from the Program in Modern Thought and Literature at Stanford University, previously taught at the New School for Social Research, and since January 2004 has taught courses in Victorian literature, Human Rights, and Global literatures and film studies in the English department at FSU. His research interests include postcolonial perspectives on Victorian studies, the history of sentiment and affect, globalization studies, new media and popular Hindi and Hong Kong cinema, and the anthropology of monstrosity. He has been the recipient of an NEH fellowship, as a Senior Researcher through the American Institute of Indian Studies. The Promise of Monsters. New School University, NYU. 2002. Pg. 3-4. Accessed: 10/01/2010. Ana www.sspp.us/Protected-Essays/2002-SPEP-Rai.doc.]//
//Monsters gave birth… analyses of biopower.//

//Biopolitics enables total annihilation and extinction//
//Bernauer ’90 (James Bernauer, Professor of Philosophy, Boston College, Michel Foucault’s Force of Flight, 1990, p. 141-142)//
//This capacity of… our own necks.//

//Scenario 2: The Burqa//

//The US uses images of Afghan womyn behind veils and under oppression to legitimize their military intervention//
//Ayotte and Hussain ‘5 (Kevin J. Ayotte, Mary E. Hussain, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing [ Afghanistan]Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, Accessed 7/16/10) soap//
//There seems to… as pure benevolence//

//The US drive to “unveil” Afghanistan womyn is a patriarchal process that inflicts epistemic violence against their agency//
//Ayotte and Hussain ‘5 (Kevin J. Ayotte, Associate Professor California State University Department of Communication, Mary E. Hussain, Professor at CSU Fresno, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing [ Afghanistan]Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, Accessed 7/16/10) soap//
//Third, the fetishization… to epistemological registers.//

//Epistemic violence cannot be separated from physical and material violence – it influences it//
//Ayotte and Hussain ‘5 (Kevin J. Ayotte, Associate Professor California State University Department of Communication, Mary E. Hussain, Professor at CSU Fresno, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing [ Afghanistan]Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-139431592/securing-afghan-women-neocolonialism.html, Accessed 9/29/10] soap//
//While the physical… ground adopted later//

//Observation 4: Solvency//

//We demand a complete withdrawal from and Afghanistan – any residual presence can’t solve the aff//
//Ely ‘9 (Mike Ely, founder Kasama Project who was an activist in the miners wildcat strike movements of the 1970s, “Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan,” October 9, 2009 [[http://kasamaproject.org/2009/10/10/we-demand-complete-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan/#more-14148]]//
//We must demand… explored and engaged.//

//Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the Afghan war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives – key to solvency//
//Crowe ‘7 (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])//
//The historical production… self-sustaining war-economy//

//The plan opens up space for a radical regime change to ideological Islam – this challenges all western “isms” of domination//
//Waheed ‘2 [DR. IMRAN WAHEED, a representative of Hizb ut-Tahrir in Great Britain. It is a global Islamist political party with membership in dozens of countries, including a significant group in the United Kingdom. Their ultimate aim is to implement Islam in all aspects of life. The party, which refuses to take part in any political system except that based on Islam and the Sharia, describes as carrying "the Islamic call in a political way, so as to change the current corrupt society and transform it to an Islamic society. It works also to change the current dealings (relationships) so as to become Islamic dealings (relationships) that proceed according to the rules and solutions of Islam." , “THE WEST’S WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND COLONIALIST FOREIGN POLICY”, 3 November 2002, http://www.internetmuslim.com/dossier_3nov02.pdf, Accessed 9/27/10] soap//
//This dossier we… all its value//

==Cap Classic - New Scenario [Nuclear Colonialism]== 

Nuclear policies are reliant on colonialism for existence – conquering colonialism is uniquely key
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Salvador 10</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[Salvador, Richard. Speaker @ Pacific Islands Association of NGOs. //Indigenous Perspective//. NGO. April 2002. Pg. 7. Accessed: 10/01/10. Ana. < http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/legal/npt/NGOpres02/4.pdf>]</span>
Finally as a...in your deliberations

Colonialist practices give birth to nuclear apartheid – to ensure the subjugation and economic underdevelopment of smaller countries and to quarantine the “other” as means to sustain the United States as a global super power
Gusterson 99
[Gusterson, Hugh. Professor at GMY, B.A. in history at Cambridge University in 1980, a Masters degree in Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania in 1982, and a PhD in anthropology at Stanford University in 1992, former professor at MIT from 1992-2006. He has done fieldwork in the United States and Russia, where he has studied the culture of nuclear weapons scientists and antinuclear activists, author of Nuclear Rites (UC Press, 1996) and People of the Bomb (Minnesota, 2004) and co-editor of Cultures of Insecurity (Minnesota, 1999) and Why America's Top Pundits Are Wrong (UC Press, 2005). As well as writing for scholarly journals, he has a regular online column for the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists and has published in numerous newspapers and magazines. //Nuclear// //Weapons and the Other in the Western Imagination.// JStor : Cultural Anthropology, Vol. 14, No. 1. (Feb., 1999), pp. 111-143. Accessed: 10/01/10. Ana. < [[http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/Gusterson1999Nuclear.pdf]]] 

The dominant discourse...of the south
==Blake - Racism 1AC== 
Observation one: welcome to the wars of the middle east
50 u.s. soldiers killed an unwinnable, unjust war that is leading us to spiritual death from militarism, materialism and racism, the challenge is still ahead.
howell <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a professor and chair of the department of communication and journalism at oakland university </span>2k10
shea-; //a way beyond darkness//; the michigan citizen, nov. 4; 
[[http://michigancitizen.com/a-way-beyond-the-darkness-p9118-1.htm]]
This month marks...still before us

There is no end in the near future to our military presence in Iraq
hassan assc professor and dir of honors program dept. english, michigan st. u. 2k8
salah-//never ending occupations,// new centennial review, spring
The obvious parallels...a never-ending occupation


observation two: the racial warrant for affirmation
in general, u.s. military presence is an exposition of institutional racism
BARDNT Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991
Joseph-ordained minister; //“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challengeto White America//; p.31-33

Racism can be...to our benefit


THE WARS IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN ARE REPRESENTATIVE OF AMERICA’S INSTITUTIONALLY RACIST FOREIGN POLICY
HUDSON Intl Relations major @ Stanford University 2k10
Adam-; //Imperialism, Islamaphopia// and Torture; STANFORD PROGRESSIVE, October;
[[http://www.stanford.edu/group/progressive/cgi-bin/?p=893]]
Racism is not...that first step


ADDITIONALLY, WE WILL ISOLATE A FEW SPECIFIC INTERNALS
FIRST: RACIAL NEOLIBERALISM AND THE MILITARY INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
<span style="font-weight: normal;">US presence in Iraq is strategically key to neoliberal militarism—molded in the form of an ideal neoliberal client state, Iraq serves as a staging point for further neoliberalization throughout Afro-Asia</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Cypher 07 (James M, professor-researcher in development studies at the Universidad Autónoma de Zacatecas, Mexico, coauthor of //The Process of Economic Development//; “</span><span style="color: #440000; font-size: 12pt;">From Military Keynesianism to Global-Neoliberal Militarism” June </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.monthlyreview.org/0607jmc.htm]]) </span>

In the United States...global-neoliberal militarism


NEOLIBERALISM HAS PERPETUATED THE ERASURE OF RACE
BARNHILL independent scholar 2k10
John-book review of David Theo Goldberg “The Threat of Race: Reflections on Racial Neoliberalism (Blackwell Manifestos); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ISSUES.com;
[[http://indigenouspeoplesissues.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1495:the-threat-of-race-reflections-on-racial-neoliberalism&catid=67:general-books&Itemid=94]]
The neoliberal crusade...a universal shortcoming


WAR HAS LEFT US ON THE BRINK OF STARVATION
MARSHALL Research Assc with the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG) 2k10
Andrew Gavin-currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; //War, Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1//; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22; [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263|www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263]]
Thus, the American...of society in tact


The blinding of RACE by neoliberal policies that obscures the links between POVERTY and military make NUCLEAR WAR inevitable
NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE A PRODUCT OF INSTITUTIONAL RACISM
OAK RIDGE ENVIRONMENTAL PEACE ALLIANCE 2k9

OREPA-; //Stop the Racism Imperialist Weapons? Building a world of peace requires making the connections.//; member of COMMUNITY SHARES; site content copyright 2006-2009; http://www.stopthebombs.org/articles/stop-the-racism
Funny thing, Almost...called institutionalized racism


we must begin the process of racing neoliberalism
roberts & mahtani dpt. of geography and planning univ of toronto 2k10
david j. and minelle- //neoliberalizing race, racing neoliberalism: placing “race” in neoliberal discourse//; a paper first presented in 2008 at the aags in boston, ma in april; published online february 18th; antipode, vol. 42, issue 2; pp. 248-257, march.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ccrri.ukzn.ac.za/docs/Neoliberalizing_Race,_Racing_Neoliberalism_Placing_Race_In_Neoliberal_Discourses_.pdf|http://ccrri.ukzn.ac.za/docs/neoliberalizing_race,_racing_neoliberalism_placing_race_in_neoliberal_discourses_.pdf]]</span>
We draw from...our case study


second: colonial racism: the war in the middle east is seeped in colonialist racism and the invisibility of whiteness blinds us to the affects
cheng koo <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">teaches asian literatures and cultures at the university of victoria in british columbia </span>2k3
gaik-human rights and anti-war activist; electroniciraq.net, march 23, opinion/editorial;
[[http://www.mafhoum.com/press5/138S26.htm|http://www.mafhoum.com/press5/138s26.htm]]
victoria, b.c. -->

politicians are enemies...this new century


colonialism is alive in the present system of evaluation
singh prof of sociology @ york university in toronto 2k7
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">hira- associate professor in the department of sociology at york university, toronto, canada. he has a ph.d. from the delhi school of economics, university of delhi, and another ph.d. from the university of toronto; //confronting colonialism and racism: fanon and ghandi//; human architecture: journal of the sociology of human knowledge, special double issue, summer 2007, p. 341-342; [[http://www.okcir.com/Articles%20V%20Special/HiraSingh.pdf|http://www.okcir.com/articles%20v%20special/hirasingh.pdf]]</span>
Today, we are...so relevant today


colonialization is a process of dehumanization
singh prof of sociology @ york university in toronto 2k7
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">hira- associate professor in the department of sociology at york university, toronto, canada. he has a ph.d. from the delhi school of economics, university of delhi, and another ph.d. from the university of toronto; //confronting colonialism and racism: fanon and ghandi//; human architecture: journal of the sociology of human knowledge, special double issue, summer 2007, p. 346; [[http://www.okcir.com/Articles%20V%20Special/HiraSingh.pdf|http://www.okcir.com/articles%20v%20special/hirasingh.pdf]]</span>
Fanon understood the...to secure victory


the impacts of colonialization outweigh any possible benefits
cesaire [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_people|african-]][[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martinique|martinican]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francophone|francophone]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poet|poet]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Author|author]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politician|politician]]. he was "one of the founders of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A9gritude|négritude]] movement 1972
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">aime – //discourse on colonialism//; translated by joan pinkham. this version published by monthly review press: new york and london, 1972. originally published as discours sur le colonialism by ediions presence africaine, 1955.</span>
Truly, there are...the non-European civilizations


third: the salvation:
we must abandon the need to maintain the structure of white supremacy
black self proclaimed pan africanist scholar 2k9
kofi-; //the origin, ramifications and rectification of white supremacy, racism = white supremacy = globalization//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/The-Origin-Ramifications-and-Rectification-of-Racism-White-Supremacy-Revised|http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/the-origin-ramifications-and-rectification-of-racism-white-supremacy-revised]]</span>
Often times i'm...it is today


global white supremacy is the root of all exploitation
black self proclaimed pan africanist scholar 2k9
kofi-; //the origin, ramifications and rectification of white supremacy, racism = white supremacy = globalization//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/The-Origin-Ramifications-and-Rectification-of-Racism-White-Supremacy-Revised|http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/the-origin-ramifications-and-rectification-of-racism-white-supremacy-revised]]</span>
Today, the global...other explanation fits


racism is solved through the commonality of struggle
<span style="background: gray;">makhijani</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">president of the institute for energy and environmental research in takoma park, maryland </span>19<span style="background: gray;">92</span>
arjun-; //racism, resources, and nuclear weapons: some reflections on rodney king case//;
institute for energy and environmental research; [[http://www.ieer.org/comments/rodneyking.html]]
there is another...around the world


Fourth: impact framing
<span class="Heading2Char2">nuclear war claims are exaggerated by the white elites as a global issue when most of the damage would only effect first world countries. the real starvation, poverty, disease, and torture of third world countries oueweigh their probable impact.</span>
<span class="Heading2Char2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">martin 84</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(brian, research associate in the dept. of mathematics, faculty of science, australian national university, and a member of sana; sana update (scientists against nuclear arms newsletter), number 16, may 1984, pp. 5-6. [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html]])</span>
Most of the...to achieve this


the only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism
memmi professor emeritus of sociology @ unv. of paris 2000
albert-; //racism//, translated by steve martinot, pp.163-165
the struggle against...stakes are irresistable


colonialism subsumes makes all impacts inevitable
cesaire [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_people|african-]][[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martinique|martinican]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francophone|francophone]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poet|poet]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Author|author]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politician|politician]]. he was "one of the founders of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A9gritude|négritude]] movement 1972
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">aime – //discourse on colonialism//; translated by joan pinkham. this version published by monthly review press: new york and london, 1972. originally published as discours sur le colonialism by ediions presence africaine, 1955.</span>
Because, after all...Haterd, lying,conceit.

=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T - Inhericality=== 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Interpretation – the aff has to be a substantial change from status quo policy – not a reduction based on the hypothetical possibility the U.S. deviates from that policy.</span></span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Substantially means real at present time</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Words and Phrases</span></span>19<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">64</span></span> (40 W&P 759) (this edition of W&P is out of print; the page number no longer matches up to the current edition and I was unable to find the card in the new edition. However, this card is also available on google books, __Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases__, Volume 8, p. 7329<span style="color: black;">)</span>
<span style="color: black;">The words "outlawed...App. 308. 318.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Violation - The U.S. is committed to the deadlines now, your aff is the status quo</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">LA Times7/29</span></span> (UsamaRedha, 7/29/10, " Deadly assault exposes Iraq's delicate state of security ", <span style="color: black;">http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/world/la-fg-iraq-mayhem-20100730,0,4501378.story</span>)
meanwhile, officials say...of last year


Standard for interpreting evidence – only official U.S. policymakers are credible sources. They are in charge of implementing the withdrawal and are the only ones with access to the truth. The 1ac evidence are from outsiders speculating about U.S. policy based on some remarks the military made after the Iraq election was inconclusive. 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C. Voting issue – </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">1. no disad ground exists that competes off of the .01% chance that the U.S. doesn’t do the plan now. ALL link arguments are terminally non-unique because the aff IS status quo policy. </span>
<span class="Underline">2. Mixes burdens – it’s impossible to determine whether the plan is topical in a vacuum. Mixing burdens makes the topic unpredictable and dependent upon effects-based evidence determinations – not the action of the plan. In practice, this means the aff will always win – because it’s a question of probability, and there’s always non-zero chance that the status quo might change.</span>

<span class="Underline">3. </span>even if they’re topical, they’re not inherent – they don’t have attitudinal, structural, or even existential inherency – because their plan is in existence now. This is independently a voting issue because ALL negative arguments and research strategies are premised on an affirmative change. 

===T - Non Combat=== 

A. Interpretation – Military presence consists of non-combat troops. This is the only way to give meaning to “presence” and it’s acceptably broad 
Thomason et al, ’02
[James S. Thomason, Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses EDUCATION Ph.D., International Relations, Northwestern University (1978) B.A., Government, Harvard College (1969) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE – HIGHLIGHTS Senior Projects Manager, Institute for Defense Analyses Director of consulting team to the CORM Professional Staff Member, Center for Naval Analyses Consultant, State Department Member, Intergovernmental Cooperation Commission, State of Illinois Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii HONORS AND AFFILIATIONS Division Nominee, Outstanding Research Analyst, Institute for Defense Analyses Dissertation Fellowship Award, Northwestern University National Institute of Health Research Fellowship Magna cum Laude, Honors thesis, Harvard College, IDA Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD Volume I: Main Report,” This paper has been prepared by the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) in partial fulfillment of a task being performed for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness). The task, entitled “Effects-Based Assessments of US Presence and Deployment Patterns,” is being conducted to help the DoD identify evidence of the effects that actual and potential alternative US overseas military presence postures and activities have or may have in promoting key US defense and national security strategy goals, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf]]</span>]
What is Overseas...call for them.


B. Violation – COIN is a combat force
Schreer & Noetzel, ’08 
[Benjamin and Timo, analysts at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, “Counter-what? Germany and Counter-Insurgency in Afghanistan,” in Royal United Services Institute Journal, Feb, Vol. 153, No. 1, RUSI]
the third and...actions against insurgents


Standards – 
1. Limits – Only our interpretation makes a clear bright line between military and unique presence activities. Unpredictable definitions explode negative ground by expanding to the new weapon system of the week forcing debates on boring generics like the Consult CP.

2. The term presence uniquely snowballs
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Southward, ’92</span></span>
[Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy, “THE LOSS OF THE PHILIPPINE BASES: EFFECTS ON USCINCPAC'S ABILITY TO EMPLOY HIS FORCES,” A paper submitted to the Faculty of the Naval War College in partial satisfaction of the requirements of the Department of Operations, [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA249898]]<span style="color: black;">]</span>
Assessing USCINCPAC's ability...deployable ground reinforcements



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D. Vote Negative – It’s not about what you do it’s what you justify and default to competing interpretations it’s the fairest way to judge the debate</span>






==Disads== 
===Iran Hegemony DA=== 
//1. Uniqueness & Link - Iran pushing now but US presence key to check aggression//
//Kern ’09 [William Kern, an Ontario businessman and political figure. He represented Halton in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, “America’s Withdrawal and Iran’s Unquenched ‘Appetite for Expansion’:” Mar 9th, 2009, http://themoderatevoice.com/27027/americas-withdrawal-and-irans-unquenched-appetite-for-expansion-from-sotal-iraq/] soap//
//In some quarters...thinly disguised threats//


//2. Iranian power forms the basis for a Shia revolution in the Middle East//
//Leigh and Vukovic ‘10//
//[James and Predrag, Izvorni naučni rad, Professor at the University of Nicosia AND **Research Assistant at the University of Nicosia February 2010, “POTENTIAL IRANIAN HEGEMONY IN OIL PRODUCING ISLAMIC COUNTRIES –IMPLICATIONS FOR OIL GEOPOLITICS,” http://www.diplomacy.bg.ac.rs/pdf/IP_2010_1_J_Leigh.pdf ]**//
//**In all of this...proxies or vassals**//


//**3. Shia weapons leads to nuclear exchange**//
//**Leigh and Vukovic ‘10**//
//**[James and Predrag, Izvorni naučni rad, Professor at the University of Nicosia AND** Research Assistant at the University of Nicosia February 2010, “POTENTIAL IRANIAN HEGEMONY IN OIL PRODUCING ISLAMIC COUNTRIES –IMPLICATIONS FOR OIL GEOPOLITICS,” http://www.diplomacy.bg.ac.rs/pdf/IP_2010_1_J_Leigh.pdf ]//
//The potential and...at the moment//

===Japan Proliferation DA=== 

Troops key to the __credibility__ of the US nuclear umbrella
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye ‘9</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan Alliance Survive”, 7-14, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html)</span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japan officially endorses...ballistic missile defense</span></span>

And decline forces Japanese proliferation – US commitment key
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bakanic et al 2008</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elizabeth, Mark Christopher, Sandya Das, Laurie Freeman, George Hodgson, Mike Hunzeker, R. Scott Kemp, Sung Hwan Lee, Florentina Mulaj, Ryan Phillips, Princeton University Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Relations, “Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt.” </span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erosion of confidence...first consulting tokyo</span></span>

And re-arm causes an Asian arms race—Risks of nuclearization outweighs any potential benefits
Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To many security...potential stabilizing factors</span>

Asian proliferation uniquely risks nuclear war—Proximity of antagonistic countries and outdated detection systems make miscalculation likely 
Cimbala, Professor @ Penn. State, ’08 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci.—Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>
The spread of...major interstate warfare

===RAWA DA=== 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Uniqueness - The RAWA anti-war movement in Afghanistan is strong and growing</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Markland 2k10</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Markland, Dave. Writer @ RAWA. //The Afghan anti-war movement grows//. Revolutionary Association for the Women of Afghanistan. August 7, 2010. Accessed: 11/02/10. < [[http://www.rawa.org/temp/runews/2010/08/07/the-afghan-anti-war-movement-grows.html]]>] Ana</span>
Coverage of Afghanistan's...here in particular


<span style="font-weight: normal;">Link - THE AFFIRMATIVE’S IMPERIAL DRAWDOWN SECURES EXPLOITATIVE RELATIONS BY EASING MILITARY DISRUPTIONS OF THE GLOBAL ORDER</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Hardt & Negri 04</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(*Michael, Professor of Literature and Italian, Duke University, Ph.D in Comparative Literature, University of Washington, and *Antonio, Former professor in State Theory, Padua University, Multitude </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">274-276)</span>
The unilateralist strategy...the Iraq war


<span style="font-weight: normal;">Impact - THIS GLOBAL ECONOMIC ORDER NORMALIZES WARFARE AND PROLIFIC MILITARISM TO CONSTRUCT AND REPRODUCE ITSELF—NEW BIO AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS GIVE THIS SYSTEM AN INFINITE POWER TO DESTROY</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Hardt & Negri 04</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(*Michael, Professor of Literature and Italian, Duke University, Ph.D in Comparative Literature, University of Washington, and *Antonio, Former professor in State Theory, Padua University, Multitude </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">37-40)</span>
The new model...its form temporarily


==Politics== 
===START DA=== 
New bipartisan START ratification measures coming now
//Rogin 9/7//
//Josh, Staff Writer at Foreign Policy Magazine,http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com//
///posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback//
//The initial draft...week's committee vote//

//Signs of partisanship during the ratification process will derail ANY benefits of the START treaty – crushing US credibility//
//Klass 4/25//
//Richard <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klass</span></span>, retired USAF colonel. He served as a White House Fellow in the Nixon administration and in the Pentagon in the Carter administration where he dealt with strategic arms control issues. New START treaty crucial for U.S. security,” <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Apr 25</span></span>, 20<span class="tagChar">10</span> 12:00 am http://www.sunjournal.com/node/828345//
//Over the course...side of civility//

//Ratification this year is key to resetting US-Russian Relations – synchronization key//
//Solash 4/22//
//Richard <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solash</span></span> “New START Ratification Process To Begin In Early May” April 22, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. and Russian...by the public</span></span>[[#_Toc264986023]]//


===FTA DA=== 
//Free trade agreements will pass – polcap key – solve trade, jobs, economic recovery, leadership, and agenda.//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">IBD ‘10</span></span>, Investor’s Business Daily, 3/10/10 (“Fresh Trade Winds?,” http://www.truthabouttrade.org/news/latest-news/15680-fresh-trade-winds)//
//Economy: U.S. trade...turnaround on trade//


//Continued economic decline causes global great power wars.//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead ’09</span></span>, Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy at the Council of Foreign Relations, 2/4/09 (“Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)//
//None of which...have to fight//

===RES DA=== 

RES will pass in lame-duck.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restuccia 10/7</span></span>, Andrew, Energy and Environment Reporter, The Washington Independent, 10/7/10 (“Sierra Club’s Pierce Weighs Chances of Energy Bill Passage Next Year,” http://washingtonindependent.com/99966/sierra-clubs-pierce-weighs-chances-of-energy-bill-passage-next-year)
In an interview...the Bingman bill

Plan costs political capital
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Engelhardt ’10</span></span>, Tom, co-founder, American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com (“Yes, We Could…. Get Out! – Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq,” Atlantic Free Press, LN)
Have you noticed...strategic oil lands

Polcap key.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGowan 10/6</span></span>, Elizabeth, SolveClimate (“The White House Goes Solar. Why Now?,” http://www.reuters.com/article/idUS340785526620101006)
The white house...and climate front

RES solves economic recovery and renewable development – global signal now key to transition to green economy.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huffington Post 10/4</span></span>, 10/4/10 (“Let's Seize the Opportunity to Pass a Renewable Electricity Standard This Year,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tulsi-tanti/lets-seize-the-opportunit_b_749164.html)

As Sen. Brownback...legislation this year

Economic recovery key to prevent global great power wars
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead ’09</span></span>, Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy at the Council of Foreign Relations, 2/4/09 (“Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)
none of which...have to fight

Hegemonic collapse inevitable absent transition to green economy – key to solve growth and warming.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klarevas ’09</span></span>, Louis, Prof, Center for Global Affairs, NYU, 12/15/09 (“Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html#)
As national leaders...strategy of greengemony

Warming causes extinction
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell ’08</span></span>, Oliver, 8/11/08 (“On A Planet 4C hotter, All We Can Prepare For is Extinction,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to...similar hothouse earth

==CPs== 
===Phase CP=== 
CP Text: The United States Federal Government should commence a phased withdrawal from Iraq extended for more than six months that includes a rapid withdrawal from highly populated areas and immediate cessation of aggressive operations against Jihadists and militias. The United States Federal Government should increase troop levels on its bases in Kuwait and create a series of bases on the south and west of the Euphrates with air power, cruise missiles, and troops

Observation 1: Competition

Normal means withdrawal is 3 to 6 months
Friedman ‘7 (George, CEO of STRATFOR, “Endgame: American Options in Iraq,” 8/27/07, accessed 6/26/10, http://www.stratfor.com/endgame_american_options_iraq, SSD) soap
the third option...order was given

Observation 2: Solvency

The CP solves and avoids the link to the Iran Hegemony DA
Friedman ‘7 (George, CEO of STRATFOR, “Endgame: American Options in Iraq,” 8/27/07, accessed 6/26/10, http://www.stratfor.com/endgame_american_options_iraq, SSD) soap
The mission would...in the world



===Drones Courts CP=== 
CP Text: The United States federal Judiciary should rule that the United States use of targeted killing and assassination forces are in violation of Protocol I Article 17, Article 51, Article 52, Article 53, Article 57 and Protocol II, Article 6 of the Geneva Convention under International Humanitarian Law.
CP Solves – Targeted killing and assassination forces are in direct violation of protocol I and II of the Geneva Convention under International Law
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kantar ‘9 </span>
[Max Kantar, an independent writer and Michigan based human rights activist. He frequently writes on U.S. foreign policy, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, social justice, and mainstream American media coverage, “International Law: The First Casualty of the Drone War”, Friday, December 11, 2009,
[[http://www.zcommunications.org/international-law-the-first-casualty-of-the-drone-war-by-max-kantar]]
, Accessed 9/19/10] soap

In the aftermath...relevant international laws

===Iraq Courts CP=== 
CP Text: The United States Federal Judiciary should rule that our military and police presence in Iraq violates UN Charter Article 51 under international law.

CP Solves - Iraq invasion and occupation violates Article 51s clause over self defense under international law
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">King ’10</span></span> [ Ryan King, Head of Learning and Development at Reinvigoration Demographic info Management Consulting | Nottingham, United Kingdom Current: Head of Learning and Development at Reinvigoration Past: External Lean Service Consulting at Unipart Expert Practices, Operations Manager at Unipart Logistics, Internal Consulting at Unipart Group, Cont... Education: Cardiff University / Prifysgol Caerdydd, Sheffield Hallam University, “Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are not Just” May 31, 2010, [[http://dailycensored.com/2010/05/31/wars-in-iraq-and-afghanistan-are-not-just/]], Accessed 9/28/10] soap
In any war...be discussed later


===Afghanistan Courts CP=== 

CP Text: United States Federal Judiciary should rule that invasion and occupation of Afghanistan violated Council Resolution 1368 and Article 51 of the UN Charter on the grounds of international law. The United States federal Judiciary should rule that the invasion and occupation of Iraq was and is not justifiable under the self-defense amendment to Article 51of the UN Charter under international law.
CP Solves – Invasion and occupation of Afghanistan are in violation of international law based on Article 51 of the UN Charter
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wildman & Bennis 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Wildman, Executive Secretary for Human Rights and Racial Justice, General Board of Global Ministries and Phyllis Bennis, Institute for Policy Studies (Washington) and Transnational Institute (Amsterdam), 2010, //Ending the US War in Afghanistan: A Primer//, pg. 64-65) Ross</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States...by international law</span>


===Aircraft PIC=== 

Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce all counterinsurgency presence, with the exception of counterinsurgency aircrafts, to levels consistent with a counter terrorism doctrine in Afghanistan.
And the CP solves best, it avoids every internal link to why generic COIN is bad and is sustainable even without other troop presence
Dorr, 10-18-10 (Robert F. Dorr, Journalist and retired U.S. Diplomat, Defense Media Network,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.defensemedianetwork.com/stories/coin-aircraft-past-present-and-future/]]</span>)

The idea is...on the ground


Observation Two: Net Benefit

Key to intelligence
Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, 07
(Tyler Moselle, Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and The U.S. Army War College, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, September 6-7, 2007, “Air and Land Power in Counterinsurgency Operations: Implications of a Civilian Center of Gravity”, Project on the Means of Intervention,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/pdf/Air_Ground.pdf]]</span>) 
A participant explained...of U.S. command


Information dominance is key to solve every threat of the 21st century
Nye, former Chairman of the National Intelligence Council and Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Affairs in the Clinton administration, is Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Admiral William A. Owens is former Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Clinton administration, and Owens, 1996 (Joseph, “America's Information Edge” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/51840/joseph-s-nye-jr-and-william-a-owens/americas-information-edge]]</span>)
The American Century...the global environment




==Kritiks== 

===War On Terror Kritik=== 
Uniqueness- Their understanding of the war on terror is clearly mired in a fantasy land – key persons involved in the war on terror hate the gay-terrorist parallel 
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elshtain, 2003 </span></span>//
//Jean Bethke, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School, and is a contributing editor for The New Republic. “Just War Against Terror”//
//A distinguished Johns...of fellow feeling//


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Link – </span></span>identifying and targeting terrorists is key to the success of the moderate war on terror. Terrorism is a unique form of violence which targets civilians exclusively – this makes comparing terrorism to any other violence engender moral nihilism//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elshtain, 2003 </span></span>//
//Jean Bethke, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School, and is a contributing editor for The New Republic. “Just War Against Terror”//
//the designation of...more from us//


//Impact – Failure to condemn terrorism is apologizing for murder. Their critique of the war on terror invites moral relativism which justifies homophobia, religious persecution and all oppression.//
//<span class="cite">Hanson 2004</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Victor Davis, Professor of Classical Studies at CSU Fresno, City Journal, Spring, http://www.city-journal.org/html/14_2_the_fruits.html</span>//
//but still, how...deportation or incarceration//


//Our alternative is patriotic moderate leftism.//
//<span class="cite">Our methodology begins from the starting point that the war on terror is ideologically correct but still criticize the war has been enacted. Moderate leftism is the only alternative to the radical left-neoconservative binary.</span>//
//<span class="cite">Gitlin 2005</span>//
//[Todd, professor of journalism and sociology at Columbia University, “The Intellectuals and Patriotism” http://www.ciaonet.org/book/git01/ ]//
//But these two...anger is intimate//


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our limited patriotism is more effective than the aff – they force people with legitimate criticisms of the US to side with neocons, prevents any reform</span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elshtain, 2003 </span></span>//
//Jean Bethke, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School, and is a contributing editor for The New Republic. “Just War Against Terror”//
//The Patriot Act...and what cannot//


===Distancing Kritik=== 
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A. The psyche exists and comes first. It shapes our understanding of the world – Everything depends on it.</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jung, ’56 </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Carl G. Jung, Renowned Scholar of Psychoanalysis and Founder of the Jung Institute, “The Undiscovered Self”, New American Library, New York, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.compilerpress.ca/Competitiveness/Anno/Anno%20Jung%20Undiscovered%20Self.htm]]</span>]</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">for more than...the decision depended</span>//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">B. War is ingrained in our society – History has been littered with the wars of our ancestors.</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hillman, ’04 </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 17-18] AP</span>//
//Halt! is war...aspect of battle//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">C. The Affirmative’s withdrawal from the battlefield embraces modern warfare and the distancing of Apollo. Separating ourselves from the enemy justifies horrific atrocities as the enemy can be eliminated with the push of a button. This sort of warfare quashes our desire for combat. Instead of preventing war we should embrace it.</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hillman, ’04 </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 90-92] AP</span>//
//Why dwell on...would be enough//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">D. The affirmative’s distaste for conflict is symptomatic of America’s addiction to innocence. This addiction allows for our inability to comprehend war and for its replication. Only by engaging in war, by imaging our enemies can we ensure the populace understands what war truly means. Failure to engage in war leaves it to the hawks whose unimaginative mindset causes a procession of violence in a never-ending quest for destruction. </span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hillman, ’06</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “War, Peace and The American Imagination”, Lecture @ Emory University, <span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.mythicjourneys.org/podcast_2feb06.html]]</span>] AP</span>//
//In thinking about...imagination that seizes//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">E. The alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to affirmative solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society. Unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hillman, ’04</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 1-3] AP</span>//
//We can never...of this book//


===Black Feminsim=== 
SEXIST SILENCING OCCURS WITHIN RACIAL POLITICAL DISCOURSE
//Public discourse on race and racism are spoken through the voices of males. A DIRECT REFLECTION of SEXIST and RACIST thinking representing race and racism as MALE TURF has invoked a cultural REFUSAL to listen to and legitimize womyn speaking on the politics of RACE. The business of race is down and dirty, there is only one gender when it comes to Racism and black womyn’s voices do not count. Inclusion of feminism within racial discussions is seen as DERAILING important politics, this SEXIST SILENCING has the TACIT COMPLICITY of audiences and means political discourse on race SUFFERS in critical gaps of theoretical vision and concrete strategy.//
//Hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995//
//Bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;//
KILLING RAGE Ending Racism//; pp. 1-3//
//When race and...on the left//


//BLACK FEMINISM IS KEY TO ANY EFFORT TO END RACISM//
//Challenging and changing the devaluation of black womynhood is CENTRAL to any effort to end racism, white supremacist degradation of black womyn undermines anti-racist struggle and the PROGRESSIVE standpoint REVOLUTINARY feminist Black womyn have offered ALL Black people that can alter old ways of thinking about Black female reality//
//hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995//
//bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;//
KILLING RAGE Ending Racism//; p. 77-78//
//Challenging and changing...thought and values//


//There is credibility in the charge that only focusing on Black oppression can breakdown solidarity among racial minorities and allow white supremacy to remain unopposed but there is also a strong argument for the using the unique experiences of Blacks in America as a model for developing strategies to fight against systemic, institutional and structural racism that exist in America. No other minority that exists in America has an identity that was born from the racist structure that it opposes and no other historical root of identification. A theory of racist oppression should recognize the impact of resistance strategies developed by black Americans. Out of the black experience actions such as protests, petitions and large-scale revolts have come.//
//FEAGIN President of the American Sociological Association 2000//
//Joe-Prof of Sociology, Univ. of Fla. Gainesville;// “RACIST AMERICA: Roots, Current Realities and Future
Reparations”; //239-240.//
//The resistance to...the pressure ebbs//


===Afghan Feminism=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Link - Depictions of afghan men with weapons and as terrorist create a clash of civilizations where war is legitimized to destroy the “patriarchal other”__<span style="background: gray;">Cloud ‘4</span>__ <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[Dana L. Cloud, Associate Professor of Communication Studies at the University of Texas, “To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations in the Imagery of the U.S. War on Terrorism, published on 2004, [[http://courses.essex.ac.uk/gv/gv905/W%2017%20coud_terror_afghan_women.pdf]], Accessed 7/17/10] soap</span></span>
//Finally, images posses...treatment of women//


//Empirically, framing these problems as Womyn’s or feminist issues has been used to further the US imperialist agenda//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Momand ‘4</span></span> [Sahar Momand, Student at Yale in political science, “Wartime Agendas: The Portrayal of Afghan Women by the United States”, 2004, [[http://www.themarj.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/Wartime_Agendas-Portayal_of_Afghan_Women_by_the_United_States.pdf]], Accessed 8/16/10] soap</span>
//There is a...for the war//


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Impact - The US uses these images to portray the “enemy” as a womyn oppressor – makes military intervention inevitable – means their impacts are inevitable__<span style="background: gray;">Ayotte and Hussain ‘5</span>__ <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Kevin J. Ayotte, Associate Professor California State University Department of Communication, Mary E. Hussain, Professor at CSU Fresno, Feminist Formations, Volume 17, Number 3, Fall 2005, pp. 112-133 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press DOI: 10.1353/nwsa.2005.0052 For additional, “Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, Accessed 7/16/10) soap</span></span>
//The oppression of...war on terrorism//


//Alternative – Reject the affs representations of afghan women – only then can we begin unpacking[[#_GoBack]] these images and engaging in true policy//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Cloud ‘4__ <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[Dana L. Cloud, Associate Professor of Communication Studies at the University of Texas, “To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations in the Imagery of the U.S. War on Terrorism, published on 2004, [[http://courses.essex.ac.uk/gv/gv905/W%2017%20coud_terror_afghan_women.pdf]], Accessed 7/17/10] soap</span></span>
//A rhetorical situation...solidarity, and peace//


===Lesbianism K=== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt; line-height: 115%;">The distinction between the “domestic” and the “International” is used by the state to construct an understanding of the world that excludes gender differences called the Public/Private Dichotomy</span>//
//<span style="background: gray; font-size: 13pt;">Pettman ‘96</span>(Jan Jindy Pettman, Author of Wording Women (A feminist international politics),Page 4 (women, gender, and the state) First published in 1996 by Allen & Unwin) soap//
//This distinction between...difference between states//

//The state is a masculine actor and its actions only serve to exacerbate the dichotomy and create manifestations of patriarchy//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="background: gray; font-size: 13pt;">Saloom ’06</span> Rachel Saloom "A Feminist Inquiry into International Law and International Relations" Roger Williams University Law Review 2006 JD Candidate UGA Lexis</span>//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;">While there are...types of feminism</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The dichotomy only serves to exclude and devalue womyn giving warrant to exclude all feminist ideas from the “public” realm because the “private” is seen as a feminine sphere</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mirchandani ‘99</span>(Mirchandani, Kiran, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Copyright 1999 Canadian Sociology and Anthropology Assn. The Canadian Review of Sociology and Anthropology,”</span> Legitimizing work: telework and the gendered reification of the work-nonwork dichotomy. The Canadian Review of Sociology and Anthropology” February 1, 1999http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?cc=&pushme=1&tmpFBSel=all&totaldocs=&taggedDocs=&toggleValue=&numDocsChked=0&prefFBSel=0&delformat=XCITE&fpDocs=&fpNodeId=&fpCiteReq=&fpSetup=0&brand=&_m=ff4a4b531bb768e20d372e8a1eff28de&docnum=6&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAA&_md5=dbb103d357a3378db2bad3653598e5d8&focBudTerms=&focBudSel=all) soap 
A third set...of social life

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Alternative- Advocate lesbianism to reject the traditional heterosexual relation model posed by the affirmative</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">And, Lesbianism is a way of expressing sexuality which is a pre-requisite to understanding gender- that shows that the dichotomy is sexualized. Heterosexual understandings of the dichotomy only limits our understanding of gender</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Simile ’99</span><span style="line-height: 115%;"> (Catherine Simile, writer for Genderwatch.com, A Penny Earned Lesbian Lifestyles: Women's Work and the Politics of Sexuality, [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?cc=&pushme=1&tmpFBSel=all&totaldocs=&taggedDocs=&toggleValue=&numDocsChked=0&prefFBSel=0&delformat=XCITE&fpDocs=&fpNodeId=&fpCiteReq=&fpSetup=0&brand=&_m=7fa041aef2b0b9bf3d8635ccaddfc9b7&docnum=3&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzW-zSkAz&_md5=e63061e69d50d33bc4f55a542e44ac43&focBudTerms=&focBudSel=all]], October 22, 1999) soap</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Finally, the third...desires and practices</span>

<span style="display: block; page-break-after: auto; text-align: justify;">[[#_Toc256363958]]</span>
[[#_Toc264427856]][[#_Toc264427231]][[#_Toc264185467]][[#_Toc264096745]][[#_Toc264096608]][[#_Toc264045390]][[#_Toc257627939]][[#_Toc257555913]][[#_Toc257433502]][[#_Toc257293912]][[#_Toc257215036]][[#_Toc256363959]]
Claire, Edinburgh University, Catherine, University of Strathclyde, Gender and the Nuclear Weapons State: A Feminist Critique of the British Government’s White Paper on Trident, Prepared for the 2nd International Faslane Academic Conference and Blockade, June 2007
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Such bland descriptors...of their work</span>


<span style="display: block; page-break-after: auto; text-align: justify;">[[#_Toc256363960]]</span>
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Der Derian</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, prof political science Brown, __2k2__ </span></span>
James, Professor of Political Science at Brown University, “__Theory & Event__ //The War of Networks//
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Without falling into...most rational discourse</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC’s impact scenarios only justify and romanticize war while reproducing gendered representations, this transforms womyn into reasons for violence making war inevitable turning the case</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pettman ‘96</span>__(Jan Jindy Pettman, Author of Wording Women (A feminist international politics),Page 97 (women, gender, and the state) First published in 1996 by Allen & Unwin) soap
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">These war stories...with enemy women</span>


The epistemology of traditional IR divorces ethics from politics by relegating ethical considerations to the feminine banished from public political action
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pandey 2k6</span>__ (Anupam, thesis submitted to faculty of graduate studies and research in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of doctorate of philosophy department of political science Carleton university, //forging bonds with women, nature and the third world: an ecofeminist critique of international relations//, proquest) <103-105>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Both traditional IR...relationships between humans</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dominant discourse in international relations is centered around masculinity which silences the “other”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vivienne Jabri and Eleanor O’Gorman, (Authors of Critical Perspectives on World Politics: Women, Culture, and International Relations, published in 1999) soap</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As we indicated...their ontological origins</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This excludes the possibility of womyn being “knower’s” or agents of knowledge</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sylvester ‘94</span>
Christine Sylvester, (renown feminist writer and author of “Feminist Theory and International Relations in a postmodern era” [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=CZO4EQumX4sC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Feminism+International+Relations&ots=kcfDREhRI_&sig=xH4AugewENcxfV8ooOzKjvkaBa8#v=onepage&q=Feminism%20International%20Relations&f=false]], first published in 1994) soap
We might say...an elephants palette


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political Otherization creates an enemy which necessitates a reason for violence making war inevitable</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman ’04</span>__ [James Hillman, Hillman has written more than twenty books, including “the force of character, re-visioning psychology, and the soul’s code” he was nominated for a Pulitzer prize in 1975, taught at Syracuse, Yale, and currently at the University of Chicago. “ A terrible Love of War, published in 2004 pg. 24]soap
"Warre", writes Hobbes...on and eliminate









==Specific Rounds== 
===Wake=== 
Wake - Rd 2 - MBA - Japan BMD
1NC: T - Aspec, DA - Japan Prolif, DA - Hegemony, K - Distancing, Case - US-China War Good
2NC: K - Distancing
1NR: DA - Japan Prolif
2NR: K - Distancing

Wake - Rd 4 - GDS - Okinawa
1NC: K - Distancing, DA - Japan Prolif, DA - Hegemony, Case - Biopower
2NC: K - Distancing
1NR: DA - Hegemony, Case - Biopower
2NR: K - Distancing, Case - Biopower

Wake - Rd 6 - National Cathedral SS - Iraq (Colonialism)
1NC: T - Substantial, CP - Iran Condition, CP - Phase, DA - Iran Hegemony, Case - Realism + Utilitarianism Good
2NC: T - Substantial, CP - Phase, Case - Realism + Utilitarianism Good
1NR: DA - Iran Hegemony
2NR: CP - Phase, DA - Iran Hegemony, Case - Utilitarianism Good

Wake - Double Octas - Centennial LM - Japan (Futenma)
1NC: T - Substantial, T - In means Throughout, A-spec, CP - Request, K - Distancing, Case - East Asia Prolif Good, US-China War Good, North Korea Prolif Good
2NC: K - Distancing
1NR: A-spec
2NR: A-spec

===GDS=== 
GDS - Rd 1 - University KT - Critical Drones
1NC: T - Aspec, CP - Global Posture Review, DA - Politics (START), CP - Courts (I'Law), K - Empire, Case: Biopower, Threat Construction
2NC: CP - Courts (I'Law), Case: Biopower, Threat Construction
1NR: Politics
2NR: CP - Courts (I'law), Case: Biopower, Threat Construction

GDS - Rd 3 - Centennial LM - Japan (Futenma)
1NC: T - Substantial, T - In means Throughout, A-spec, DA - Politics (START), K - Distancing, Case -Alliance, Asian Stability, China Containment
2NC: K - Distancing
1NR: Aspec
2NR: K - Distancing

GDS - Rd 5 - Beacon OS - Empire
1NC: K - War on Terror Good, K - Capitalism, Case - Queer theory
2NC: K - War on Terror Good
1NR: K - Capitalism
2NR: K - War on Terror Good

GDS - Rd 7 - Centennial KP - Japan (Futenma)
1NC: T - Aspec, T - In, T - Substantially, CP - Request, DA - Politics (START), K - Distancing. Case: Alliance, Asian Stability, China Containment
2NC: K - Distancing
1NR: T - Aspec
2NR: T - Aspec

===Bronx=== 
Bronx - Rd 2 - Riverhill DF - Iraq Neoliberalism
1NC: CP - Status of Forces Agreement. CP - Phase, DA - Iran Hegemony, DA - Free Trade Agreements, Case - Neoliberalism defense/Impact Turns
2NC: CP - Phase, DA - Iran Hegemony
1NR: DA - Free Trade Agreements, Case: Neoliberalism Defense/Impact Turns
2NR: CP - Phase, DA - Iran hegemony, Case defense

Bronx - Rd 4 - Centennial JK - South Korea (Performative)
1NC: K - Black Feminism, CP - "The" PIC, Framework, Case - Realism
2NC: K - Black Feminism, CP - "The" PIC
1NR: Framework, Case - Realism
2NR: CP - "The" PIC, Case - Realism

Bronx - Rd 6 - Brooklyn Technical - Afghanistan (Drones) 
1NC: T - Aspec, T - USFG, CP - Courts, CP - Presidential Commission, DA - FTA
2NC: CP - Courts
1NR: DA - FTA
2NR:CP - Courts, DA - FTA

===Capitol Classic=== 
Cap Classic - Rd 1 - Broadrun FP - Afghanistan/Iraq (drones)
1NC: CP - Iraq , CP - Courts, DA - FTA, Case defense
2NC: CP - Iraq, CP - Courts
1NR: FTA, Case defense
2NR: CP - Iraq

Cap Classic - Rd 3 - Carrolton SR - Afghanistan (COIN)
1NC: CP - Afghanistan, K - Afghanistan Feminism, DA - RES, Case - COIN Good/Counterrorism Bad
2NC: CP - Afghanistan, K - Afghanistan Feminism
1NR: DA - RES, Case
2NR: CP - Afghanistan

Cap Classic - Rd 6 - National Cathedral SS - Iraq (Colonialism/Security)
1NC: T - Substantial, CP - Courts, CP - GDPR, DA - FTA, DA - Iran Hegemony, Case Defense
2NC: CP - Courts, Case Defense
1NR: DA - FTA, DA - Iran Heg, Case Defense
2NR: CP - Courts, Case Defense

Cap Classic - Quarters - Carrolton AU - Japan BMD
1NC: T - In, T - Aspec, T - Presence = Troops, CP - Presidential Commission, CP - Request, DA - RES, Case Defense
2NC: T - Presence = Troops
1NR: T - Aspec
2NR: T - Aspec

===Scranton Round Robin=== 
Scranton RR - Rd 2 - Lexington BE - Afghanistan (COIN)
1NC: T - Non Combat, DA - RES, CP - Afghanistan, K - Afghan Fem, K - Crenshaw, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad
2NC: CP - Afghanistan
1NR: DA -Politics
2NR: CP - Afghanistan

Scranton RR - Rd 4 - Edgemont MX - Japan (Navy/Pan)
1NC: CP - Okinawa, K - Lesbianism, Case Turn
2NC: K - Lesbianism
1NR: Case Turns
2NR: Case Turns

Scranton RR - Rd 5 - Cathedral Prep HW - Iraq (Orientalism/Democracy bad)
1NC: T - Inhricality, T - Substantial, CP - Iraq, DA - Iran Heg, DA - RES, Case Turn
2NC: CP - Iraq, Case Turns
1NR: DA - RES
2NR: Case Turns

Scranton RR - Rd 7 - Baltimore City College MN - Afghanistan/Iraq (Imperialism)
1NC: T - Inhericality, CP - Courts, CP - Iraq, DA - RES, DA - RAWA, Case Defense/Util Good
2NC: CP - Courts, Case Defense/Util Good
1NR: DA - RES
2NR: CP - Courts

===Scranton=== 
Scranton - Rd 2 - Lexington YM - Afghanistan (COIN)
1NC: T - Non Combat, K - Schmitt, CP - Aircraft, DA - RES, DA - Withdrawal, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad
2NC: CP - Aircraft, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad
1NR: DA - RES
2NR: CP - Aircraft, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad

Scranton - Rd 3 - Cathedral Prep - Iraq (Realism)
1NC: T - Inhericality, CP - Iraq PIC, CP - Courts, DA - RES, Case Defense
2NC: CP - Courts
1NR: DA - RES
2NR: CP - Courts, DA - RES

Scranton - Rd 5 - Centennial KS - South Korea (Concientiazation)
1NC: T - The, CP - Request, CP - NPT QPQ, DA - FTA, Case - Util Good
2NC: T - The, CP - Request, Case - Util Good
1NR: DA - FTA
2NR: T - The, CP - Request, DA - FTA, Case - Util Good

Scranton - Octas - Edgemont MX - Asia (Debate Masculinity)
1NC: Framework, K - Normativity, K - Hillman, CP - Should Case - Util Good
2NC: Framework
1NR: CP - Should
2NR: Framework

Scranton - Quarters - Edgemont JK - Navy (Japan)
1NC: T - Sub Spec, T - Substantial, CP - SSBN, K - Hillman, Case Turns
2NC: CP - SSBN, K - Hillman
1NR: Case Turns
2NR: Case Turns

===Blake=== 
Blake - Rd 1 - Marist CM - COIN
1NC: T - non-combat, DA - Bulgaria, CP - Afghanistan, K - Race, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad
2NC: K - Race
1NR: DA - Bulgaria, Case
2NR: K - Race

Blake - Rd 3 - Greenhill PP - Futenma (Japan)
1NC: DA - Senkaku, DA - START, DA - Japan Prolif, K - Race, Case - Alliance
2NC: DA - Senkaku, Case
1NR: DA - START
2NR: DA - Senkaku, Case

Blake - Rd 6 - GBS VW - COIN
1NC: T - non-combat, DA - Bulgaria, CP - COIN, K - Race, Case - COIN Good/CT Bad
2NC: CP - COIN
1NR: DA - Bulgaria, Case
2NR: CP - COIN

Blake - Rd 7 - Dexter HC - Afghanistan
1NC: DA - Withdrawal, DA - Bulgaria, K - Race, CP - Afghanistan, Case - Russia
2NC: K - Race
1NR: DA - Bulgaria, Case
2NR: Bulgaria

===﻿Big Lexington=== 
Lex - Rd 1 - National Cathedral SS - Iraq (Orientalism)
1NC: T - Should, CP - HTS, DA - Iran Heg, DA - Debt Ceiling, K - Subaltern, Case - Util, Realism
2NC: CP - HTS, Case
1NR: DA - Debt Ceiling
2NR: CP - HTS, Case

Lex - Rd 3 - Dallas Jesuit GM - Futenma
1NC: T - Substantial, DA - Debt Ceiling, Race K, Science K, Case - Alliance
2NC: T - Substantial, Race K
1NR: DA - Debt ceiling
2NR: T - Substantial

Lex - Rd 5 - UC Lab - Security Korea
1NC: CP - Phase, DA - Deterrence, K - Subaltern, DA - Politics, Case - Util, realism
2NC: CP - Phase, K - Subaltern, Case - Util, Realism
1NR: DA - Politics
2NR: DA - Politics, Case - Util, Realism










[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]