[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**India/Pakistan Plan AC**</span>=== 

OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:
V: Morality

Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.
Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

"But the human...or go forward."

Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.
Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

"This question brings...to have it?"

Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.

Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29

"The fact that...as an individual."

S: Treating people as ends in themselves.

OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament

ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:

The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers

Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.

"In South Asia...restriction on India."

A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.
Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.

"What is morally...kind of case."

B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.
Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.

"What is also...about to do."

ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:

A) Accidental Launch is likely.
Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service

"In addition to...strike from India."

B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE
Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.

"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."

C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.
V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.

"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."

Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.
Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”

"Even a limited...a global scale."

ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:

The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.
Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.

"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."

Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.
J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.

"in terms of...might be used."

Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.
Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.

"Last week's brutal...global security concerns."

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Security Dilemma NC**</span>=== 

Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."


In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"But let us...for disarmament research."

The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.
Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.

"Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."

preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.

Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2

"War accounts for..of our civilization."


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]