[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

__DE AC__

V:Morality

Will defend implementation/neg can specify

Within a moral framework, harming of innocents permissible if not intended.

Allison Hills "Defending Double Effect" Philosophical Studies: An international journal for philosophy in analytic tradition. 2003.
"The focus of...bringing it about"

prefer for 3 reasons.
1) When you intend a negative harm, you devalue the humans by using them as a mere tool.
Warren Quinn. "Actions, Intentions and Consequences: the doctrine of double effect." Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 18, No. 4. (Autumn, 1989).
"What seems specifically...the agent's goal."

Treating people as though they only exist for an external purpose undermines any moral theory.
Warren Quinn. "Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing" The Philosophical Review.
"Whether we are...really being ours."

2) There are unique moral harms that occur when you intend harm to a victim.
Thomas Nagel. The View from Nowhere. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print. Pages 25-26
"So far this...of this restriction"

3) Only an ethic that forbids the intending of harm takes adequate concern for the moral implications on the victims.
Nagel 2
"I have concentrated...aiming to destroy."

Burden: possession of nukes intends to cause harm to those who don't deserve it

First, nuclear weapons, even if never used, use people as a means to an end by holding them hostage.

Steven Lee "Morality, Prudence, and nuclear weapons" Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45.
"Making nuclear threats...of that policy"

Second, possession of nuclear weapons means there are different things that we can use them for like blackmail. Conditionally intending harm is bad too.
Gregory Kavka "Some Paradoxes of Deterrence" The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 75, No. 6 (Jun., 1978), pp. 285-302
"Let us return...form the intention"

Third, possession of nuclear weapons requires adjustments to maintain a nuclear threat.

Gerald Dworkin "Nuclear Intentions" Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, April 1985.
"It must be...threats are empty"

And, Sagan explains why possession of nukes leads to misuse.
Scott Sagan "The Perils of Proliferation: Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear WEapons" International Security Vol. 18, No. 4, 1994.
"Waltz asked: why...of nuclear weapons"

Finally, Daniel Geller provides the empirical verification that nuclear weapons increase conflict.
Daniel Geller, “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation,” <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=jconfreso|__The Journal of Conflict Resolution__]]</span> Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310 Published by: <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=sage|__Sage Publications, Inc.__]]</span>http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196
"This analysis has...and violent one."


<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Democracy AC V:Morality</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> government must be consistent with authority to be legitimate need authority to have nuclear weapons</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Rousseau, Jean Jacques. “The Social Contract or Principles of Political Right”. 1762. Translated by G.D.H Cole. [[http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau%27s%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf|http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau's%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf]] "I suppose men...most frightful abuse"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Individual have self-determination that government must respect.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Rousseau 2 "The public force...would be dissolved"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Government loses authority to act.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> VC: consistency with democratic checks prefer the standard because:</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> 1) governments only moral agents because of the moral personhood of the people, thus must be the focus</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> 2) Free discussion and dissent are pre-requsities to accurate formation of principles of rights.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Amartya Sen [Thomas W. Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, at Harvard University and was until recently the Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. He has served as President of the Econometric Society, the Indian Economic Association, the American Economic Association and the International Economic Association. He was formerly Honorary President of OXFAM and is now its Honorary Advisor]“Development as Freedom” Anchor Books. 1999. "The instrumental roles...permitted or not"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> 3) Individuals have a right to democracy in matters of self-defense because when you attack someone, you forfeit your right to be protected and people should have a say in forfeiting their rights.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> 4) Democratic rights best recognize the worth of individuals because they are directly empowered Also, people have worth so their decision ought to be recognized directly</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Subpoint A. Nuclear weapons put too much power in the hands of too few.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Richard H. Ullman [Director of the 1980s Project of the Council on Foreign Relations and Professor of International Affairs at Princeton University] “Denuclearizing International Politics” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 567-588, University of Chicago Press. "The second consideration...national nuclear capability"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Subpoint B. Nuclear weapons require a form of undemocratic society.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> Sissela Bok [Formerly a Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis University, Sissela Bok is currently a Senior Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard School of Public Health.] “Distrust, Secrecy, and the Arms Race” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 712-727, University of Chicago Press. "Secrecy is equally...confronted their nations"</span>

__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">Kant AC</span>__
I value morality 

Human beings’ ability to rationally self-reflect is how we derive all forms of reason and value.
Christine Korsgaard, The Sources of Normativity . 1996. 
And this … reflection is done. 

Rationality is the only thing that is not regressive
Lewis, C.S. Miracles. 1942. Collins. Print. 
But the very … getting inside again. 

This practical reason of humans necessitates a moral maxim be universalized to all rational agents. Stephen Engstrom, The Form of Practical Knowledge, Harvard University Press, 2009, p. 124-125. 
As we saw, … of practical knowledge. 
Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory.
Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18. 
Now on the … the same freedom. 

Thus, the sufficient affirmative burden is to prove that possession of nuclear weapons uses people as a means to an end. 

Evaluating action solely based on the ends they produce leads to a contradiction by failing to respect the inherent value of individuals
Seiriol Morgan (2009). Can There Be a Kantian Consequentialism? Ratio 22 (1):19-40. 
“In my view, … which I doubt.” 

We can’t predict the consequences of an action 

I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons uses people as a means to an end. 

Nuclear weapons are especially dependent on technology.
Thomas Donaldson “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense” Source:Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear 
The critical moral… culpable or insane. 

Nuclear weapons, even if never used, use people as a means to an end by holding them hostage. Nuclear deterrence and strategy is dependent on nations’ ability to harm innocents. However, the possibility of this harm is always in violation of the standard.
Steven Lee [professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges] “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45 
Making nuclear threats … of that policy. 

This violates the standard by using individuals as a means to the end of coercion of another state. 

Conditionally intending an action is wrong
Gregory S. Kavka. “Some Paradoxes of Deterrence.” The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 75, No. 6 (Jun., 1978), pp. 285-302 
Let us return… entails having it). 

Finally, the risk of failure and retaliation is real.
Scott Sagan [Professor of political science and co-director of Stanford’s Center for International Security and Cooperation .] “The Perils of Proliferation: Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons” International Security , Volume 18, No. 4, 1994. JSTOR.
Waltz asked: why… of nuclear weapons.



__Non-domination AC__
I value **MORALITY**,

I advocate a metaethical framework of practical reason,
<span style="color: black;"> Christine Korsgaard, The Sources of Normativity . 1996.</span>
<span style="color: black;">And this … reflection is done.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Further, rationality is the only thing that is not regressive</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Lewis, C.S. Miracles. 1942. Collins. Print. </span>
<span style="color: black;">But the very … getting inside again.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Therefore humans are necessarily ends in themselves, as they are capable of rational self-reflection.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18. </span>
<span style="color: black;">Now on the … the same freedom. </span>

Second, domination of other’s ability to express their will is impermissible because it denies their agency. Barbara Herman explains,
Barbara Herman, The practice of moral judgment Harvard University Press, 1993
“Here is where …**__for rational agents__**__.__”



Therefore, the standard is **consistency with non-domination**, as Ripstein explains:

Ripstein, Arthur. //Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.// Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. Pg 34-35.
**__The right to…__**some other end.


Domination denies individuals’ voices as rational agents. Philip Pettit writes,
Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.
But the primary-good …not command respect.

This violates the obligations of practical reason because we fail to treat individuals as rational agents, by making their will irrelevant, and thus the universalization of that principle would deny our own rationality. Domination denies peoples’ relevance in despite of their humanity.

It is morally impermissible to violate independence. Ripstein TWO continues:
Kant on Law and Politics.” Arthur Ripstein. //University of Toronto Law School//.[[http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/Kant_on_law.pdf]].
This recasting of…of legitimate institutions.

**I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons is a tool of domination.**

**First,** the possession of nuclear weapons arbitrarily dominates innocents in other nations by holding them as hostages. 
Steven Lee [professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges] “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. Pg. 46.
**__Nuclear deterrence is…as mere means.__**

Domination is immoral under any condition.

**Second,** a nation that puts itself in a position to coerce others imposes dominating power.
Philip Pettit [Princeton University]. “A Republican Law of Peoples.” //European Journal of Political Theory//. 2010. Sage.
But **__A may__**… would not be.

Therefore, nuclear weapons put nations in a position to coerce others because of their destructive power, and are thus immoral. This has two additional implications:

Possession of nuclear weapons by developing nations forces other nations to alter their foreign policy.
“Weapons of Mass Destruction: Nuclear Weapons.” [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/iran/nuke.htm]].
**__If Iran did… in the region.__**]


Also, possession of nuclear weapons alters behavior of nearly all states to avoid catastrophe.
Henry Nash "Nuclear Weapons and International Behavior," 1975. Sijthoff International Publishing.
**__If Iran did…in the region.__**
Finally, the risk of failure and retaliation is real. 
Scott Sagan [Professor of political science and co-director of Stanford’s Center for International Security and Cooperation .] “The Perils of Proliferation: Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons” International Security , Volume 18, No. 4, 1994. JSTOR. 
Waltz asked: why… of nuclear weapons.




==Negative== 

__Roth NC__

V: M
<span style="text-align: justify;">The nature of human equality is such that all people have a right to self definition, which demands a fundamental right to sovereignty. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Brad R. Roth [Associate Professor of Political Science and Law, Wayne State University. J.D., Harvard Law School, 1987; LL.M., Columbia Law School, 1992; Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996.] COMMENTARY: THE ENDURING SIGNIFICANCE OF STATE SOVEREIGNTY. Florida Law Review December, 2004. 56 Fla. L. Rev. 1017</span>
“There is good…be democratic about.”
Thus the sole burden is to prove that the possession of nuclear weapons functions as an expression of states’ sovereignty. 
By possessing nuclear weapons, states are able to define their own desires. 


__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Hobbes NC</span>__
We need an incentive to obey moral rules, or else they dont function as a guide for action.

Further, contractarianism is the only theory that supplies moral content without circularity. David Gauthier<span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[2010-2011 --- Walt Whitman (MD) --- Alex Zimmermann?template=space.template.LD&responseToken=2bbf6362688d2212b93390926fb91c01#_ftn1|[1]]</span>] explains

<span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[2010-2011 --- Walt Whitman (MD) --- Alex Zimmermann?template=space.template.LD&responseToken=2bbf6362688d2212b93390926fb91c01#_ftnref|[1]]</span>] Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
Morals by agreement… presumption against morality.

Finally, contractarianism is the sole moral system that establishes the rationality of compliance to moral principles as well as providing the rational basis for those principles. Gauthier TWO<span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[2010-2011 --- Walt Whitman (MD) --- Alex Zimmermann?template=space.template.LD&responseToken=2bbf6362688d2212b93390926fb91c01#_ftn2|[2]]</span>] continues:

<span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[2010-2011 --- Walt Whitman (MD) --- Alex Zimmermann?template=space.template.LD&responseToken=2bbf6362688d2212b93390926fb91c01#_ftnref|[1]]</span>] Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
A contractarian theory… morally neutral, base.

Therefore, the negative burden is to prove that a prohibition on the possession of nuclear weapons is inconsistent with self-interested contractarian restrictions on action.


Wihtout a sovereign all actions are permissible. Hobbes writes.
Hobbes. The Leviathan. 1660. 

THE right of… so to do.

Second, a policy of nuclear deterrence is consistent with a true understanding of our rational self-interest. David Gauthier<span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[2010-2011 --- Walt Whitman (MD) --- Alex Zimmermann?template=space.template.LD&responseToken=2bbf6362688d2212b93390926fb91c01#_ftn4|[4]]</span>]concludes,

David Gauthier “Deterrence, Maximization, and Rationality” Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 3 (Apr., 1984), pp. 474-495Published by: The University of Chicago Press URL: <span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380819]]</span>
This objector insists… utilities is greatest.


__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Honor NC</span>__
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Arthur Ripstein explains Kant’s derivation of the innate right to independence:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Arthur Ripstein [University of Toronto Law Professor]. Kant on Law and Justice. 2-3.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The core idea</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">...used to pursue."</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Rejecting independence, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Engstrom. </span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">The Form of Practical Knowledge</span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">. 18.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> <span style="color: black;">"Now on the...**the same freedom.**</span>"</span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Ripstein TWO explains the necessity of rightful honor for state independence</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Ripstein, Arthur. </span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.</span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;"> Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **"The same right...to rightful honor."**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> While individuals may be constrained by ethical obligations to not dominate others, states are constrained by right conduct, as they have no property, or ends, to pursue means to.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Ripstein, Arthur. </span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.</span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;"> Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The absence of...rightfully acquire another.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">"</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Therefore, the sufficient negative burden is to prove that a states refusal to sacrifice its right to possession of nuclear weapons for the sake of an objective good is consistent with its rightful honor.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> No state may sacrifice its interests to others for the sake of an objective good, as states arise from the state of nature for the sake of self-defense and resolving rights disputes.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Ripstein, Arthur. </span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.</span>//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;"> Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The idea that...of such matters."</span>



=**November-December**= 
==Affirmative== 

__Bringing back the felons AC__
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The resolution should be limited to the actions of the United States because:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**First**, we live in the United States—education</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Second**—applicability. When evaluating ethical claims or the normative basis for action many types of ethical theories are circumstance-dependent. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Third**—predictability. Specifying relevant impacts to the U.S. is the most predictable interpretation because the vast majority of the research debaters have access to is U.S. specific. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Fourth**—Neg ground. Specifying the U.S. opens the possibility for means and ends- based arguments specific to the nature of the U.S. legal system. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Moreover, if my opponent wins a preferable counter-interpretation, then we should accept that interpretation rather than punishing the affirmative with a loss.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I value MORALITY.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Morality must primarily be concerned with avoiding stratification. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Philip Pettit<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> writes,</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">“But the primary-good…not command respect.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Second, they prevent states of affairs from controlling the power and voice of an individual. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Thus the standard is maintaining minority power. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 60pt 0.0001pt 0in;">//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Second-Order Diversity</span>//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Heather Gerken [Professor of Law at Yale Law School where she specializes in election law, constitutional law, and civil procedure]. Harvard Law Review. February 2005. LEXIS.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 60pt 0.0001pt 0in;">There are…**__to group division.__**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**I contend that the criminal justice system uniquely exacerbates the harms of racism.** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Kenneth Nunn<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> explains:</span>
//Critical Race Theory: The Cutting Edge.// p. 429. “Law as a Eurocentric Enterprise.” 2000. Ed. Richard Delgado and Jean Stefanic.
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__Law contributes to…__**accomplishes its goals. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">James Mosher<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> explains</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“Public Health, Not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy.” James Mosher and Karen Yanagisako. Journal of Public Health Policy, 12.3. 1991. JSTOR.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__Nonmedical drug use…__**the policy proponents. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Kathleen Sandy<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn4|[4]]]</span> explains,</span>
“The Discrimination Inherent in America's Drug War: Hidden Racism Revealed by Examining the Hysteria over Crack.” Alabama Law Review. 2003. Lexis.
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__Black Americans constitute…__**the drug problem.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Figler<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn5|[5]]]</span> continues, </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bailey Figler. New York University Annual Survey of American Law. //A Vote for Democracy: Confronting the Racial Aspects of Felon Disenfranchisement. 2006. Lexis.//</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__Felon disenfranchisement negatively…__****__urban minority communities.__**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">This leads to a vicious cycle where these groups have no way to check injustices against themselves. </span>
Devah Pager<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn6|[6]]]</span> explains
“<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Mark of a Criminal. Devah Pager. The American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 108, No. 5 (Mar., 2003), pp. 937-975. </span>The University of Chicago. http://www.jstor.org/stable/3568287

----
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span> //Critical Race Theory: The Cutting Edge.// p. 429. “Law as a Eurocentric Enterprise.” 2000. Ed. Richard Delgado and Jean Stefanic.
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[3]]]</span> “Public Health, Not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy.” James Mosher and Karen Yanagisako. Journal of Public Health Policy, 12.3. 1991. JSTOR.
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[4]]]</span> “The Discrimination Inherent in America's Drug War: Hidden Racism Revealed by Examining the Hysteria over Crack.” Alabama Law Review. 2003. Lexis.
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Bailey Figler. New York University Annual Survey of American Law. //A Vote for Democracy: Confronting the Racial Aspects of Felon Disenfranchisement. 2006. Lexis.//</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[6]]]</span> “<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Mark of a Criminal. Devah Pager. The American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 108, No. 5 (Mar., 2003), pp. 937-975. </span>The University of Chicago. http://www.jstor.org/stable/3568287


__Gautheir AC__
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I affirm and value MORALITY</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Mark Mercer<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> argues</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> In Defence of Weak Psychological Egoism.: Mark Mercer. Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 55, No. 2 (2001), pp. 217-23</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">To begin: **__To…__****__unfathomable and inexplicable.__**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Additionally, any motive that I can have to act must be my own motive and not someone else’s. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">We condition motivation via self-motivation. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">A moral claim about how agents should act must both be able to explain the content of rules as well as the motivation to follow them. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">David Gauthier<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> explains:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Morals by agreement …presumption against morality. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Rationality is determined by the individual agent, so objective concerns of harm external to perceptions do not generate obligations.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">So the standard is **consistency with the moral claims of rational contractarianism**. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Gauthier TWO<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> continues: </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__A contractarian theory…morally neutral, base.__**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Paul Voice<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn4|[4]]]</span> explains:</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[1]</span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Contractarianism connects rationality**__…we all inhabit.__** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Voice<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn5|[5]]]</span> 2 argues: </span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[1]</span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Contractarianism explains how…**__things go wrong.__** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I contend that rational agents would never affirm a moral system that allows the criminal justice system to punish them for victimless crimes, but would affirm a system of public health. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cussen and Block<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn6|[6]]]</span> explain,</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span> Legalize Drugs Now!: An Analysis of the Benefits of Legalized Drugs Author(s): Meaghan Cussen and Walter Block Source: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Jul., 2000), pp. 525-536 Published by: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc.
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">The laws of…a legal inconsistency.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Voice<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn7|[7]]]</span> 3 explains. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__According to Gauthier…expense of others.__** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Additionally, if your actions only harm yourself, then I get no benefit by creating a prohibition to my action because your corresponding prohibition fails to benefit me in any way. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Mill<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn8|[8]]]</span> writes:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[1]</span> //On Liberty,// People’s Edition, London, 1859</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">But **__neither one…field of action.__**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">However, rational agents would still hold open the possibility for public health. Public health is concerned not primarily with restricting options but with opening them up.</span>

----
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> In Defence of Weak Psychological Egoism.: Mark Mercer. Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 55, No. 2 (2001), pp. 217-23</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span></span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[4]]]</span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[5]]]</span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[6]]]</span> Legalize Drugs Now!: An Analysis of the Benefits of Legalized Drugs Author(s): Meaghan Cussen and Walter Block Source: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Jul., 2000), pp. 525-536 Published by: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc.
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[7]]]</span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[8]]]</span> //On Liberty,// People’s Edition, London, 1859</span>


==Negative== 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I negate and value morality as ought implies a moral obligation.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Rousseau explains<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>,</span>
Rousseau, Jean Jacques. “The Social Contract or Principles of Political Right”. 1762. Translated by G.D.H Cole. [[http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau%27s%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf|http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau's%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf]]
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">I SUPPOSE men…**__most frightful abuse.__**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Montesquieu<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn2|[2]]</span> explains,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Charles de Montesquieu “ The Spirit of Laws” Book XI. Of the Laws Which Establish Political Liberty, with Regard to the Constitution 1748</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Democratic and aristocratic…the law permits.[[#005]]</span>__**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Thus, the standard is maintaining adequate restrictions on state power. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">C.S. Lewis<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> explains,</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. 6 Res Judicatae 224 (1953). //God and the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics//. P. 287.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">The distinction will…the old system?</span>

----
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> Rousseau, Jean Jacques. “The Social Contract or Principles of Political Right”. 1762. Translated by G.D.H Cole. [[http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau%27s%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf|http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau's%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf]]
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; line-height: 115%;">Charles de Montesquieu “ The Spirit of Laws” Book XI. Of the Laws Which Establish Political Liberty, with Regard to the Constitution 1748</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftnref|[3]]]</span> “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. 6 Res Judicatae 224 (1953). //God and the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics//. P. 287.


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

__Adversarial AC__
I value morality as ought implies a moral obligation.
All moral obligations must link to a conception of practical reason as practical reason alone can supply an obligation. David Velleman explains 
David. Velleman. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press. 
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">As we have seen… act for reasons. </span>
If based only in reason then circumstance is irrelevant so we must universalize
Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory. Stephen Engstrom continues,
Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18.
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">Now on the… the same freedom.</span>
In order to maintain the rights of an individual we require an adversarial system. Stephan Landsman explains,
Stephan Landsman. “The Adversary System. A description and Defense”. American Enterprise Institute Studies in Legal Policy. 1984.
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">A number of… reducing impositional costs. </span>
Landsman again,
Party control has…governmental repression increased. 
This voice is also key to respect individuals Philip Pettit writes,
“Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">But the primary… not command respect.</span>
Thus the standard is maintaining an adversarial system. 
CONTENTION ONE:
Juvenile courts, by embracing rehabilitation, attempt to avoid the adversarial system and expand the power of judges in an inquisitorial way. Stacey Hiller explains
“THE PROBLEM WITH JUVENILE SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION: THE DETRIMENTAL EFFECTS OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE” Spring, 1998. 1998 The Trustees of Boston University The Boston University Public Interest Law Journal
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">Parens Patriae Facilitates… adult criminal trials.</span>
This sort of system is incompatible with a system in which the defendant is able to speak out in defense within the proper adversarial context. Federle argues:
WILL THE JUVENILE COURT SYSTEM SURVIVE?: Is There a Jurisprudential Future for the Juvenile Court?. 1999 The American Academy of Political and Social Science. Lexis Nexis.
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">Finally, abolishing the… value of rights.</span>
CONTENTION TWO:
The use of judges as a major decision maker in the courtroom allows the judge to insert his own ideas and beliefs into proceedings. Barry Feld argues:
Barry C. Feld. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy Source: The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology” (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136. Northwestern University <http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">Quite apart from…or appellate checks.</span>
This is inconsistent with the adversarial system. Landsman 3 explains,
NOTE: A Criminal's Justice or a Child's Injustice? Trends in the Waiver of Juvenile Court Jurisdiction and the Flaws in the Arizona Response”. Spring, 1999. Arizona Board of Regents Arizona Law Review
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">The adversary system…all the evidence. </span>
CONTENTION THREE:
The rehabilitative logic of juvenile courts has undermined due process checks. Brenda Gordon writes,
NOTE: A Criminal's Justice or a Child's Injustice? Trends in the Waiver of Juvenile Court Jurisdiction and the Flaws in the Arizona Response”. Spring, 1999. Arizona Board of Regents Arizona Law Review
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">In philosophy, these…In re Gault.</span>


__Domination AC__


I value morality as ought implies a moral obligation.
All moral obligations must link to a conception of practical reason as practical reason alone can supply an obligation. David Velleman explains 
David. Velleman. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press. 
As we have seen… act for reasons. 
If based only in reason then circumstance is irrelevant so we must universalize
Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory. Stephen Engstrom continues,
Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18.
Now on the… the same freedom.
Therefore, the standard is consistency with non-domination, as Ripstein explains:
Ripstein, Arthur. Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. Pg 34-35.
The right to…some other end.
Domination denies individuals’ voices as rational agents. Philip Pettit writes,
“Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.
But the primary-good… not command respect.
Individual preferences are the best way to achieve consequentalism. 
I contend that treating juveniles as adults in the criminal justice system is consistent with independence, while treating them differently in the juvenile justice system is not.
First, juvenile courts, by embracing rehabilitation, attempt to avoid the adversarial system and expand the power of judges in an inquisitorial way. Stacey Hiller explains
“THE PROBLEM WITH JUVENILE SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION: THE DETRIMENTAL EFFECTS OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE” Spring, 1998. 1998 The Trustees of Boston University The Boston University Public Interest Law Journal
Parens Patriae Facilitates… adult criminal trials.
Rehabilitative systems inflate state power to control the means of individuals arbitrarily. C.S. Lewis explains:
The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. 6 Res Judicatae 224 (1953). God and the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics. P. 287.
The distinction will… the old system?
This is empirically verified within the juvenile system. Cynthia Noon writes:
49 U. Miami L. Rev. 473 (1994-1995).Waiving Goodbye to Juvenile Defendants, Getting Smart vs. Getting Tough; Noon, Cynthia R.
Other critics of… of their crime. 
Retribution is consistent with non-domination Ripstein TWO continues,
Kant on Law and Politics.” Arthur Ripstein. University of Toronto Law School. http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/Kant_on_law.pdf.
Public right also… to treat others.
Second, treating juveniles outside of the adult system places too much sentencing power in the hands of individual actors like judges. 
Barry C. Feld. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy Source: The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology” (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136. Northwestern University <http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075>
Quite apart from… or appellate checks
By combining the system we are able to unearth and criticize abuse of state power. 
Federle explains:
WILL THE JUVENILE COURT SYSTEM SURVIVE?: Is There a Jurisprudential Future for the Juvenile Court?. 1999 The American Academy of Political and Social Science. Lexis Nexis.
Setting aside questions… coercion and violence.
Instead, abolishing the juvenile system provides children with an important status necessary to be an agent that constrains state power. Federle TWO argues:
WILL THE JUVENILE COURT SYSTEM SURVIVE?: Is There a Jurisprudential Future for the Juvenile Court?. 1999 The American Academy of Political and Social Science. Lexis Nexis.
Finally, abolishing the… and value of rights.


==Negative== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">__Simmons NC__</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The state claims the authority to coerce </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Thus, the standard is consistency with government authority</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Governments are not rationalistic entities in the conventional sense, and thus do not have some moral obligation that arises from an autonomous nature but are instead a tool created by individuals. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">A. John Simmons. Locke and the Right to Punish. Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 20, No. 4 (Autumn, 1991). Jstor. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> Now for Locke's… to govern themselves.30</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Merely local is insufficient Simmons TWO continues,</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Justification and Legitimacy. SSRN February 16, 2009. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1344452.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> The mere fact… just state elsewhere. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Juvenile courts both best achieve that social protection and help to reintegrate juveniles in society so that they can act within the benefits of the social contract until old enough to truly consent to the law. Enrico Pagnanelli explains,</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">NOTE: CHILDREN AS ADULTS: THE TRANSFER OF JUVENILES TO ADULT COURTS AND THE POTENTIAL IMPACT OF ROPER V. SIMMONS” 2007 American Criminal Law Review American Criminal Law Review Winter, 2007</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> The juvenile court… protecting the public.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">This is an obligation that society must provide to reintegrate children to provide them again with access to consent. Simmons three concludes,</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Justification and Legitimacy. SSRN February 16, 2009. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1344452.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> The suggestion here… best half-hearted. </span>


__Studies in Words NC__

I negate and value morality, as ought implies a moral obligation.
Reason is a fact from which all obligation is derived. David Velleman explains:
David. Velleman. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press. 
As we have…act for reasons.
Additionally, to determine the stringency of duties derived from a maxim, all rational agents must be able to will the maxim. 
Denying individuals’ independent choice, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory. Steven Engstrom writes,
Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18.
Now on the…the same freedom.
Ripstein explains the legitimate basis for contracts:
Authority and Coercion. Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 32, No. 1 (Winter, 2004), pp. 2-35. 
Contract enables parties…the other person.
Thus, the standard is consistency with agreements
Further prefer this standard because when creating an agreement I make a mutual commitment that I will follow through in exchange for your compliance. 
I contend that treating juveniles as adults violates international agreements.
Connie de la Vega and Michelle Leighton [Connie de la Vega is Professor of Law and Director of the Frank C. Newman International Human Rights Clinic, University of San Francisco School of Law. Michelle Leighton is Director of Human Rights Programs, Center for Law and Global Justice, University of San Francisco School of Law]“Sentencing Our Children to Die in Prison: Global Law and Practice” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 42. Spring 2008.
The United States…of the treaty.
Moreover, the ICCPR requires movement towards a separate juvenile system. Roger Levesque writes:
Roger Levesque [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, Indiana University. J.D., Columbia University School of Law, 1993; Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1990] “Future Visions Of Juvenile Justice: Lessons From International And Comparative Law” 29 Creighton L. Rev. 1563, June 1996.
Despite the long…and its requisite procedures.



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]