[[toc]]
NEG: [[mailto:gsmail718@gmail.com|gsmail718@gmail.com]]
AFF: [[mailto:vishruth.reddy@gmail.com|vishruth.reddy@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Manchester 1AC== 
===Plan Text=== 
**The United States Federal government should reduce nearly all of its forces in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counterterrorism strategy.**

===Inherency=== 
**The US won't withdraw now - both the 2011 deadline and the December review are mechanisms for increasing troop level**s
__**Klein 6/24**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”, [[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">But the policy...until July 2011.</span>

**Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail - a minimalist approach is sufficient to contain al Qaeda and prevent a Taliban takeover**
**__Nelson 9__** <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Rick "Ozzie" Nelson, Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, 2009, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Probably not. Counterinsurgency...approach would entail.</span>

**Now is the key time - the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delaying the transition risks precipitous withdrawal**
__**Simon and Stevenson 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">It follows that...for that purpose.</span>

===Hegemony=== 
**US global leadership is on the brink, and a counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan risks the devastation of hegemony - however a counterterrorism mission would maintain US hard power**
__**Kretkowski 10**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Over the winter...a reinvigorated Russia.</span>

**Heg key to de-escalate conflict and prevent great power wars - multiple internal links**
__**Thayer 6**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Bradley A., November/December 2006, "In Defense of Primacy," NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Throughout history, peace...of a blitzkrieg.</span>

**Independently, counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan causes overstretch and devastates troop morale and readiness - that collapses hegemony**
__**Pyne 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(David T. Pyne, Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America, 2009/11/07, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> In Iraq and...this past year.</span>

**And, continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan tanks our international credibility - makes leadership impossible**
__**Innocent and Carpenter 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Former national security...than would withdrawal.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Certainty of withdrawal is key - it shores up international credibility and boosts political support**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Schlesinger 10**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Stephen Schlesinger, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City. He is the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, [[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The deadline is...be the last.</span>

===Terror=== 
**Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use - nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast**
__**Evans 10**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%; line-height: 15px;">Terrorists including al-Qaeda...bombs are available.</span>

**Single greatest threat to global security - material's already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
__**Hall 10**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Obama said "the...attack" by 2013.</span>

**Afghanistan is the ONLY Staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack - there can only be one**
__**Arkedis 9**__ <span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">As deliberations about...it can access.</span>

**A nuclear strike by al Qaeda causes US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction**
__**Morgan 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In a remarkable...of strategic weapons.</span>

**Al Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat - religious ideology short-circuits deterrence**
__**Gorka 10**__ <span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">Almost immediately after...not be achievable.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**US Presence strengthens al Qaeda - it drives militant groups to ally with it and increases recruiting**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Clemons et al 10**__ </span><span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">In short, a...by similar motivations.</span>

**A large footprint makes Pakistani cooperation impossible - that's necessary to solve terror**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Simon and Stevenson 9__**</span> <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The Obama administration's...be against foreigners.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A targeted counterterrorism force posture is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent the recreation of al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Cortright 9**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The analysis suggests...with greater justice.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism - presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Boyle 10**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Another set of...essential counterterrorism goals.</span>

==Pennsbury 1AC== 
===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independent from any decision regarding the location of the First Marine Air Wing Headquarters, the location of the headquarters of the Third Marine Expeditionary Force or the Jungle Warfare Training Center at Camp Gonsalves, the United States Department of Defense should substantially reduce its Marine presence, other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit or Marine Security Guard Battalion, from Japan.</span>**

===Alliance=== 
**Collapse of alliance inevitable in the squo - cold war posture, public anger and no solution to base issue**
__**Jitsuro 10**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Terashima, President of Tama University, President of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute and chairman of the Japan Research Institute, former foreign policy advisor, “The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future,” Foreign Policy in Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">But history is...of the bases.</span>

**Now is key - the Alliance will crumble this spring - clashing agenda's and reelection of Nakaima will overwhelm other issues - only marine reduction solves**
**__Ennis 10__** <span style="font-size: 80%;">Dispatch Japan is written by Peter Ennis, a long-time chronicler of Japan and US-Japan relations. “Okinawa: Why the Nakaima win spells trouble” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The problem with...Marines on Okinawa.</span>

**Local opposition to large US presence is the root cause of alliance stress**
__**Barkdoll 6**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Timothy C., commander in the US Navy, in a USAWC Strategy Research Project, 3-15-06 “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA449819)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Much of Japan's...over 50 years.</span>

**Reduction of Marines prevents a fracturing alliance - means we avoid multiple nuclear wars across Asia**
__**Armitage et al 2K**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">Richard L. Armitage, Armitage and Associates; Dan E. Bob, Office of Senator William V. Roth, Jr.; Kurt M. Campbell, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Michael J. Green, Council on Foreign Relations; Kent M. Harrington, Harrington Group LLC; Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff, Senate Foreign Relations Committee; James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; Joseph S. Nye, Jr., JFK School of Government, Harvard University; Torkel L. Patterson, GeoInSight; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; Robin H. Sakoda, Sakoda Associates; Barbara P. Wanner, French and Company; and Paul D. Wolfowitz, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, The Johns Hopkins University. “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership” Institute for National Strategic Studie</span><span style="font-size: 80%;">s October 11, 2000 National Defense University</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Asia, in the...throughout the region.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, the Spratlys will be a flashpoint for conflict with China</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Joyner 99</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Christopher, Professor of Government and Foreign Service at Georgetown University, “The Spratly Islands Dispute in the South China Sea: Problems, Policies, and Prospects for Diplomatic Accommodation”, [[http://www.southchinasea.org/docs/Joyner,%20Spratly%20Islands%20Dispute.pdf]]).</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">ASEAN states are...waiting to happen.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That will stop all shipping and trade in the South China Sea</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Joyner 99</span>__** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Christopher, Professor of Government and Foreign Service at Georgetown University, “The Spratly Islands Dispute in the South China Sea: Problems, Policies, and Prospects for Diplomatic Accommodation”, [[http://www.southchinasea.org/docs/Joyner,%20Spratly%20Islands%20Dispute.pdf]]).</span>


<span style="font-size: 80%;"> All of the...South China Sea.</span>

**It would be impossible to stabilize due to oil disruption**
__**Lam 96**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Peng-Er, Professor of Political Science at National University in Singapore. member of the Advisory Panel to the Government Parliamentary Committee for Defence and Foreign Affairs, October, “Japan and the Spratlys Dispute: Aspirations and Limitations”, Asian Survey, Vol. 36, No. 10, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2645630]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">If an armed...foreign aid recipient.</span>

**Economic repercussions would global**
__**Havely 99**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Joe, staff writer, "Analysis: Flashpoint Spratly", BBC World News, [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/279170.stm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The disputed territory...the global economy.</span>

**Depression causes global war - proliferation ensures it threatens survival**
__**Kerpen 8**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Phil policy director for American’s for Prosperity 08 October 28, 2008 [http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/201 From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> It's important that...even greater scale.</span>

**We control the best internal into war - as long as those trade routes stay open there won't war**
**__CNS 99__** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Copley News Service, December 1, Lexis Academic)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> For decades, many...be celebrating it.</span>

**Relations are key to check prolif and terrorism**
__**Przystup 5**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(James J. Przystup, Senior Research Fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies, June 2005, “U.S.-Japan Relations: Progress Toward a Mature Partnership”, http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps82539/Przystup_OP_072005.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">When the Security...common strategic objectives.</span>

**Proliferation leads to extinction**
__**Utgoff 2**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Victor A., Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90 Victor A Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In sum, widespread...even whole nations.</span>

**The U.S.-Japan Security alliance is key to contain the North Korean nuclear program and aggression**
__**Cronin 5**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Richard P., Specialist in Asian Affairs with the Congressional Research Service, Winter 2005 “The North Korean Nuclear Threat and the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Perceived Interests, Approaches, and Prospects” [[http://beta.stimson.org/southeastasia/pdf/Cronin_The_North_Korean_Nuclear_Threat_and%20the_US_Japan_Security_Alliance.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In broad terms...American nuclear umbrella.</span>

**That prevents nuclear war**
__**Chol 2**__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 80%;">Chol, Director Center for Korean American Peace, 2002 10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Any military strike...second-class nuclear power.</span>

===Kadena=== 
**Grassroots movements will force Japan to kick us out now**
__**Auslin 6/16**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Michael, Resident scholar at AEI, Wednesday, June 16, 2010, “The Real Futenma Fallout”, [[http://www.aei.org/article/102196]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">Japanese military officials...national security establishment</span>

**Withdrawal is key to avoid ultimate backlash and loss of Kadena**
__**O'Hanlon 1**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Michael, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, November 2, 2010, “Come Partly Home, </span>America<span style="font-size: 80%;">: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx]] Accessed: 11/2/10)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Keeping so many...Japanese security policy.</span>

**Kadena is a strategic necessity - it's key to air power and essential for training missions**
__**Axe 2k7**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(David, David Axe is a military correspondent living in Washington, D.C. Since 2005 he has reported from </span>Iraq<span style="font-size: 80%;">, </span>Lebanon<span style="font-size: 80%;">, East Timor, Afghanistan and </span>Somalia<span style="font-size: 80%;">. He is a regular contributor to Wired, The Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, among many other outlets “Fortress Hubs,” Defense Technology International, pg nexisghs-ef)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Indeed, the linchpin...to the distance.</span>

**South China Sea is a Critical Flashpoint - miscalculation and lack of communication makes the risk of escalation high**
__**Global Post 6/27**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(“South China Sea: The coming war?,” pg online @ http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military ghs-ef)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">It's a 3.5...getting crowded underwater.</span>

**Conflict in the South China Sea draws in major powers and causes World War III**
__**Waldron 97**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Arthur, Prof Strategy and Policy – Naval War College, Commentary, 3-1, http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Then there is...the United States.</span>

**Kadena is critical to U.S. Deterrence in the region - Chinese perceptions of US power rest with Kadena - loss of the base causes China to attack Taiwan**
__**Ross 2k2**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations,” ghs-ef)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Deterrence could fail...in March 2002.</span>

**Chinese aggression against Taiwan will escalate and go nuclear**
__**Adams 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Jonathan, reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan 3/31/09, “The dragon sharpens its claws,” [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china-and-its-neighbors/090331/the-dragon-sharpens-its-claws]] Accessed: 11/2/10)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">TAIPEI - It's the...rising Asian giant.</span>
==Harvard JV 1AC== 
===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independent from any decision regarding the location of the First Marine Air Wing Headquarters, the location of the headquarters of the Third Marine Expeditionary Force or the Jungle Warfare Training Center at Camp Gonsalves, the United States Department of Defense should substantially reduce its Marine presence, other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit or Marine Security Guard Battalion, from Japan.</span>**

===**Alliance**=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**All attempts at relocating Futenma have failed, and continuing operations are unsustainable - all it takes is one accident to ignite Okinawan dissent**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Kato 10__** </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Yoichi, visiting research fellow for National Strategic Studies/ National Defense University and Center for Strategic and International Studies, M.A. in International Relations, 4-16-10 “Futenma issue reaching danger zone” http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201004150385.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">After three years...the United States.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And there's no chance of relocation in time - it's critical we act by this spring, but the governor won't back the Henoko plan**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Ennis 11/29__** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Dispatch Japan is written by Peter Ennis, 11/29/10, a long-time chronicler of Japan and US-Japan relations. “Okinawa: Why the Nakaima win spells trouble” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The problem with...Marines on Okinawa.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The question of Futenma is a priority issue - if not addressed, local opposition will paralyze the US-Japan Security Alliance**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Barkdoll 6**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Timothy C., commander in the US Navy, in a USAWC Strategy Research Project, 3-15-06 “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA449819)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Much of Japan's...over 50 years.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, the alliance is on the brink now - Futenma distracts from other issues and by itself is a key point of tension**</span>
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kitazume citing Calder and Brooks 9/24**</span>__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Takashi Kitazume, Staff Writer for The Japan Times, Kent Calder, director of the Edwin O. Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at the School of Advanced Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University, William Brooks, an adjunct professor at SAIS who had earlier monitored Japan-U.S. relations at the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo for 15 years, “ New vision of Japan-U.S. ties needed at key turning point Tokyo must get past Futenma; APEC host has chance to bring relations on track” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100924d1.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Japan-U.S. relations are...Futenma has done.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Reduction of Marines prevents a fracturing alliance - means we avoid multiple nuclear wars across Asia**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Armitage et al 2K**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">Richard L. Armitage, Armitage and Associates; Dan E. Bob, Office of Senator William V. Roth, Jr.; Kurt M. Campbell, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Michael J. Green, Council on Foreign Relations; Kent M. Harrington, Harrington Group LLC; Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff, Senate Foreign Relations Committee; James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; Joseph S. Nye, Jr., JFK School of Government, Harvard University; Torkel L. Patterson, GeoInSight; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; Robin H. Sakoda, Sakoda Associates; Barbara P. Wanner, French and Company; and Paul D. Wolfowitz, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, The Johns Hopkins University. “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership” Institute for National Strategic Studie</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">s October 11, 2000 National Defense University</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Asia, in the...throughout the region.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, the alliance is key to contain the North Korean nuclear program and aggression**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Cronin 5**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Richard P., Specialist in Asian Affairs with the Congressional Research Service, Winter 2005 “The North Korean Nuclear Threat and the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: PerceivedInterests, Approaches, and Prospects”</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://beta.stimson.org/southeastasia/pdf/Cronin_The_North_Korean_Nuclear_Threat_and%20the_US_Japan_Security_Alliance.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In broad terms...American nuclear umbrella.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**That prevents nuclear war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Chol 2**__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">Chol, Director Center for Korean American Peace, 2002 10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Any military strike...second-class nuclear power.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Kadena**</span>=== 
**Currently the public is only opposed to Futenma - however if the US fails to close it, dissent will spill over to all the bases**
**__Allen and Sumida 4/27__** <span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(David, longtime journalist, and Chiyomi, journalist specializing in Japanese and Okinawan government agencies, Stars and Stripes, April 27th, 2010, “Thousands rally against Futenma plan”, http://www.stripes.com/news/thousands-rally-against-futenma-plan-1.10162</span><span style="font-size: 80%;">1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Tens of thousands...military from Okinawa.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, this backlash will force the closure of the Kadena base**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Thomason et al 2__** </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">James S. Thomason, Project Leader Senior Analyst Ph.D., International Relations B.A., Government Robert J. Atwell Robert Bovey William E. Cralley James Delaney Michael P. Fischerkeller Kongdan Oh Hassig Charles Hawkins Gene Porter Institute for Defense Analysis “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD” http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In East Asia...to about 5,000.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kadena is a strategic necessity - it's key to air power and essential for training missions**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Axe 7**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(David, David Axe is a military correspondent living in Washington, D.C. Since 2005 he has reported from </span>Iraq<span style="font-size: 10px;">, </span>Lebanon<span style="font-size: 10px;">, East Timor, Afghanistan and </span>Somalia<span style="font-size: 10px;">. He is a regular contributor to Wired, The Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, among many other outlets “Fortress Hubs,” Defense Technology International, pg nexisghs-ef)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Indeed, the linchpin...to the distance.</span>

**And this is critical to deterrence - Chinese perceptions of US power rest with Kadena - prevents attack on Taiwan**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Ross 2**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations,” ghs-ef)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deterrence could fail...in March 2002.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Chinese aggression against Taiwan will escalate and go nuclear**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Adams 9**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Jonathan, reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan 3/31/09, “The dragon sharpens its claws,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china-and-its-neighbors/090331/the-dragon-sharpens-its-claws]]</span> Accessed: 11/2/10)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">TAIPEI - It's the...rising Asian giant.</span>

<span style="line-height: 15px;">**Additionally, Kadena is a major asset to the US - a complete loss of Japanese bases would cripple US leaders**hip</span>
__**<span style="line-height: 15px;">McCormack 10</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">Gavan is a coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, "The Battle of Okinawa 2010: Japan-US Relations at a Crossroad," The Asia-Pacific Journal, 45-4-10, November 8, 2010. http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3443</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> 65 years since...in the world.</span>

**And, leadership solves nuclear war**
__**Khalizad 95**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Zalmay Khalilzad, senior defense policy analyst at the RAND Corporation and former undersecretary of defense, Spring 1995. Washington Quarterly, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Under the third...of power system.</span>

===Solvency=== 
**There is no reason to keep marines on Okinawa - a withdrawal solves for Japanese opposition to US presence and prevents the loss of Kadena**
__**O'Hanlon 1**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Michael, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, November 2, 2010, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx]] Accessed: 11/2/10)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">About half of...Japanese security policy.</span>


**The plan supports our rhetoric of attempting to ease Japanese burdens – solves for public discontent with US presence**
__**Barkdoll 6**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Timothy C., commander in the US Navy, in a USAWC Strategy Research Project, 3-15-06 “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA449819)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Public support is...in that pursuit.</span>

**And resolving Futenma allows room for the alliance to focus on more important issues**
__**Foster and Kanak 9/15**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Jim Foster and Dan Kanak, Jim Foster, a former State Department official, is vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. Dan Kanak is a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J. “ A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations?” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Life rarely gives...America will benefit.</span>

==Lakeland 1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**Plan Text**</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independent from any decision regarding the location of the First Marine Air Wing Headquarters, the location of the headquarters of the Third Marine Expeditionary Force or the Jungle Warfare Training Center at Camp Gonsalves, the United States Department of Defense should substantially reduce its Marine presence, other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit or Marine Security Guard Battalion, from Japan.</span>**

===**Alliance**=== 
**All attempts at relocating Futenma have failed, and continuing operations are unsustainable - all it takes is one accident to ignite Okinawan dissent**
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Kato 10__** </span><span style="font-size: 10px;">(Yoichi, visiting research fellow for National Strategic Studies/ National Defense University and Center for Strategic and International Studies, M.A. in International Relations, 4-16-10 “Futenma issue reaching danger zone” http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201004150385.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">After three years...the United States.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And there's no chance of relocation in time - it's critical we act by this spring, but the governor won't back the Henoko plan**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Ennis 11/29__** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Dispatch Japan is written by Peter Ennis, 11/29/10, a long-time chronicler of Japan and US-Japan relations. “Okinawa: Why the Nakaima win spells trouble” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The problem with...Marines on Okinawa.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The question of Futenma is a priority issue - if not addressed, local opposition will paralyze the US-Japan Security Alliance**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Barkdoll 6**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Timothy C., commander in the US Navy, in a USAWC Strategy Research Project, 3-15-06 “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA449819)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Much of Japan's...over 50 years.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, the alliance is on the brink now - Futenma distracts from other issues and by itself is a key point of tension**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kitazume citing Calder and Brooks 9/24**</span>__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Takashi Kitazume, Staff Writer for The Japan Times, Kent Calder, director of the Edwin O. Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at the School of Advanced Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University, William Brooks, an adjunct professor at SAIS who had earlier monitored Japan-U.S. relations at the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo for 15 years, “ New vision of Japan-U.S. ties needed at key turning point Tokyo must get past Futenma; APEC host has chance to bring relations on track” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100924d1.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Japan-U.S. relations are...Futenma has done.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Reduction of Marines prevents a fracturing alliance - means we avoid multiple nuclear wars across Asia**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Armitage et al 2K**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">Richard L. Armitage, Armitage and Associates; Dan E. Bob, Office of Senator William V. Roth, Jr.; Kurt M. Campbell, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Michael J. Green, Council on Foreign Relations; Kent M. Harrington, Harrington Group LLC; Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff, Senate Foreign Relations Committee; James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; Joseph S. Nye, Jr., JFK School of Government, Harvard University; Torkel L. Patterson, GeoInSight; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; Robin H. Sakoda, Sakoda Associates; Barbara P. Wanner, French and Company; and Paul D. Wolfowitz, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, The Johns Hopkins University. “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership” Institute for National Strategic Studie</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">s October 11, 2000 National Defense University</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Asia, in the...throughout the region.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Additionally, the current alliance is abusively unilateral - inhibiting Japan to aid in security**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**McCormack 11/8**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Gavan, emeritus professor at Australian National University, and coordinator of the Asia-Pacific Journal Japan Focus, "The Battle of Okinawa 2010: Japan-US Relations at a Crossroad," The Asia-Pacific Journal, Japan Focus, 45-4-10, November 8th, 2010, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3443 | <3)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">During the prolonged...client state was.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**This unequal alliance disrupts Japanese domestic issues and disrupts their identity**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Kingston 7**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Jeff, Director of Asian Studies at Temple University, Japan, "Japan, just a puppet of America?", July 8th, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fb20070708a1.html | <3)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Prime Minister Shinzo...own Truman Show.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Only the plan solves - Okinawa is a key example of the client-state relationship**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**McCormack 11/8**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Gavan, emeritus professor at Australian National University, and coordinator of the Asia-Pacific Journal Japan Focus, "The Battle of Okinawa 2010: Japan-US Relations at a Crossroad," The Asia-Pacific Journal, Japan Focus, 45-4-10, November 8th, 2010, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3443 | <3)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">To both sides...contempt in Washington.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, the alliance is key to contain the North Korean nuclear program and aggression**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Cronin 5**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Richard P., Specialist in Asian Affairs with the Congressional Research Service, Winter 2005 “The North Korean Nuclear Threat and the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: PerceivedInterests, Approaches, and Prospects”</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://beta.stimson.org/southeastasia/pdf/Cronin_The_North_Korean_Nuclear_Threat_and%20the_US_Japan_Security_Alliance.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In broad terms...American nuclear umbrella.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**That prevents nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Chol 2**__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">Chol, Director Center for Korean American Peace, 2002 10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Any military strike...second-class nuclear power.</span>

===Kadena=== 
**Currently the public is only opposed to Futenma - however if the US fails to close it, dissent will spill over to all the bases**
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Allen and Sumida 4/27__** <span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(David, longtime journalist, and Chiyomi, journalist specializing in Japanese and Okinawan government agencies, Stars and Stripes, April 27th, 2010, “Thousands rally against Futenma plan”, http://www.stripes.com/news/thousands-rally-against-futenma-plan-1.10162</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">1)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tens of thousands...military from Okinawa.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, this backlash will force the closure of the Kadena base**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Thomason et al 2__** </span><span style="font-size: 10px;">James S. Thomason, Project Leader Senior Analyst Ph.D., International Relations B.A., Government Robert J. Atwell Robert Bovey William E. Cralley James Delaney Michael P. Fischerkeller Kongdan Oh Hassig Charles Hawkins Gene Porter Institute for Defense Analysis “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD” http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In East Asia...to about 5,000.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kadena is a strategic necessity - it's key to air power and essential for training missions**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Axe 7**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(David, David Axe is a military correspondent living in Washington, D.C. Since 2005 he has reported from </span>Iraq<span style="font-size: 10px;">, </span>Lebanon<span style="font-size: 10px;">, East Timor, Afghanistan and </span>Somalia<span style="font-size: 10px;">. He is a regular contributor to Wired, The Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, among many other outlets “Fortress Hubs,” Defense Technology International, pg nexisghs-ef)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Indeed, the linchpin...to the distance.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And this is critical to deterrence - Chinese perceptions of US power rest with Kadena - prevents attack on Taiwan**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Ross 2**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Robert, Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, International Security, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations,” ghs-ef)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deterrence could fail...in March 2002.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Chinese aggression against Taiwan will escalate and go nuclear**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Adams 9**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Jonathan, reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan 3/31/09, “The dragon sharpens its claws,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china-and-its-neighbors/090331/the-dragon-sharpens-its-claws]]</span> Accessed: 11/2/10)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">TAIPEI - It's the...rising Asian giant.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 15px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Additionally, Kadena is a major asset to the US - a complete loss of Japanese bases would cripple US leaders**hip</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="line-height: 15px;">McCormack 10</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">Gavan is a coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, "The Battle of Okinawa 2010: Japan-US Relations at a Crossroad," The Asia-Pacific Journal, 45-4-10, November 8, 2010. http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3443</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">65 years since...in the world.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, leadership solves nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Khalilzad 95**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Zalmay Khalilzad, senior defense policy analyst at the RAND Corporation and former undersecretary of defense, Spring 1995. Washington Quarterly, lexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Under the third...of power system.</span>

===Solvency=== 
**There is no reason to keep marines on Okinawa - a withdrawal solves for Japanese opposition to US presence and prevents the loss of Kadena**
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**O'Hanlon 1**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Michael, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, November 2, 2010, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx]]</span> Accessed: 11/2/10)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">About half of...Japanese security policy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The plan supports our rhetoric of attempting to ease Japanese burdens – solves for public discontent with US presence**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Barkdoll 6**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Timothy C., commander in the US Navy, in a USAWC Strategy Research Project, 3-15-06 “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA449819)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Public support is...in that pursuit.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And resolving Futenma allows room for the alliance to focus on more important issues**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Foster and Kanak 9/15**__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Jim Foster and Dan Kanak, Jim Foster, a former State Department official, is vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. Dan Kanak is a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J. “ A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations?” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Life rarely gives...America will benefit.</span>

=Negative= 
==CPs== 
===Consult NATO=== 
**The United States federal government should engage in prior binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether [insert plan here]. The United States federal government should support this proposal during consultation. Relevant modifications will be permitted.**

__**Observation 1 is Competition:**__
**A. CP tests the world resolved, which means 'to make a firm decision about', American Heritage Dictionary 3, and tests should which means 'used to express obligation', Dictionary.com 3 - counterplans that test the resolution are key to predictable neg ground. Any perm is untopical and severs the plan's advocacy.**

**B. Fiat ensures competition - consultation after by fiat is perceived as dishonest**
__**Haass 99**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Richard, former senior aide to President George H.W. Bush and director of foreign policy studies at Brookings, Transatlantic Tensions – Chapter 12: Conclusions. Pg 234.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Still, consultations are...than disguise unilateralism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 16px;">﻿C. Textually competitive - we use the word "removal" instead of "withdrawal".</span>**

__**Observation 2 is the Net Benefit:**__
**Specifically, lack of consultation over Afghanistan fragments the alliance**
__**Morellie and Belkin 9**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(12/3/09, Vincent & Paul, Section Research Manager for Europe and the Americas AND European Affairs Analyst at Congressional Research Service, Congressional Research Service, “NATO in Afghanistan: A Test of the Transatlantic Alliance”, http://ftp.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33627.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">NATO's mission in...two neighboring states.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NATO solves multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jackson 99</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Bruce, President of US Committee on NATO, “The Conservative Case for NATO,” Policy Review, Apr/May, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/3552212.html]])</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">NATO is at...blood and treasure.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**Futenma PIC**</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Futenma base in Japan.**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A. The CP better protects interests in Asia by keeping non-Futenma based marines in Okinawa**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Goodenough 5**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Patrick, is the International Editor for CNSNews.com. [[@http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1400632/posts]] [[@http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1400632/posts|Panel Advises Against Extensive Withdrawal of US Marines from Okinawa]] | MAY 10)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 80%;">Apart from Futenma...in the region.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**B. Pulling more Marines out would crush deterrence in Asia and freak out our allies**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Lawless 10**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 16px;">(Richard P. Lawless was an employee at the Central Intelligence Agency, serving in Washington, D.C. and various postings in the Far East and Europe received his B.S. in International Relations from Bradley University’s School of International Studies, and studied at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California. As interviewed by YOICHI KATO, Asahi Shimbun Senior Staff Writer [[@http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201003040361.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Q: So the entire...United States. A: No.</span>

===XO=== 
**The President of the United States should [insert plan here].**

__**Observation 1 is Competition:**__
**A. Definitional: "The" means all parts - they're definitionally bound to defending all branches**
__**MW No Date**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Merriam Webster's Online Collegiate Dictionary, http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary, No Date)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Used as a...as a whole.</span>

**B. Resolutional - Resolved means legislative action**
__**LHR 5**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Louisiana House of Representives, 2005, http://www.house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Resolution: A legislative...to governor's veto.</span>

__**Observation 2 is Solvency:**__
**A. The President can authorizes billions of dollars for the plan without any Congressional involvement**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Mayer 1**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Kenneth, professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, 4/12/01, http://pup.princeton.edu/chapters/s7095.html)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">In response Clinton...any meaningful interference.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**B. Executive orders can be used for troop withdrawals - empirically proven**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Cooper 2**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">In addition to...early in 1992.</span>

**C. Executive orders avoid politics, have the force of law, and are rarely overturned**
__**Cooper 2**__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px; line-height: 15px;">(Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Executive orders are...orders generated elsewhere.</span>

__﻿**Observation 3 is the Net Benefit:**__
**A. Unilateral executive action expands presidential power and sets a precedent - each order is key. The counterplan fiats uniqueness to the link**
__**Mayer 1**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Much of the time...of the Constitution.</span>

**B. Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming**
__**PCAP 8**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">This legacy could...for climate action.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Tickell 8**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Oliver, Environmental Researcher and Journalist, and founder of the Kyoto 2 Climate Initiative, 8/11/08, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">We need to...similar hothouse Earth.</span>
==Ks== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**Security**</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. The discourse of danger is paramount – the aff's construction of threats produces securitization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Grondin 4**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(David, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Approaches that deconstruct...existence are generated.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Be skeptical of their impact claims - they parrot the logic of security from the State</span>**
__**Neocleous 8**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunei Univ, Critique of Security, 182-3)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">I have been...the state itself.</span>

**C. Security discourse makes war inevitable**
__**Lipschutz 98**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Ronnie D., Professor, Department of Politics at the University of Santa Cruz, California, 1998, "Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End", Cioanet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz18.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">For the state...geopolitics and realists.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D. The impact is biopolitical control of the populace to justify endless apocalypse and violence in the name of survival</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Coviello 1**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Perhaps. But to...be done without.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">E. And this pure example of biopower, justified by a constant desire to survive, in itself is the cause of war, genocide, and ultimately extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Foucault 78**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Michel, former professor of philosophy at the College de France, “The History of Sexuality: An Introduction”, Volume 1, 136-137)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">There has been...phenomena of population.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">F. The alternative is to reject the plan to open up space necessary for emancipation from endless securitization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Neocleous 8**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunei Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The only way...return the gift.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Their focus on secondary contradictions rather than capitalism fails and only serves to reify capitalism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Tumino 1**__ (<span style="font-size: 80%;">Stephen, Prof. English @ Pitt, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More than Ever”, Red Critique, p. online)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Any effective political...as social theory.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Reject the aff's naturalization of the Capitalist system. Attempts to manage the symptoms of capitalism within the system fail and legitimize further genocidal violence culminating in extinction</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Herbert 3**__ <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Brent, contributor to Portland Independent Media Center, 10/3/03, “The Genocidal Mentality”, http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2003/10/273190.shtml)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Christian totalists justify...are to survive.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Rejecting capitalism is a pre-requisite to solving the affirmative's harms of imperialism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**Brown 93**__ </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">(Wendy, Professor and Genius, “Wounded Attachments”, Political Theory, Aug. p. 392-394)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">As liberal discourse...explicitly politicized marking.</span>

==**2NRs**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Manchester</span>**=== 
**Round 2:** Lexington KM - COIN
2NR: Taliban Takeover DA + Case

**Round 3:** NFA CI - Japan
2NR: NMS Recommendation CP + START DA

===**Pennsbury**=== 
**Round 1:** St. John's College LW - South Korea Prostitution
2NR: Framework + XO + SKFTA DA

**Round 3:** Edgemont GX - COIN
2NR: Consult NATO

**Octas:** Stuyvesant FL - Turkey Biopower/Predictions
2NR: Framework + Consult NATO

===Harvard JV=== 
**Round 1:** Mountain Brook RT - COIN
2NR: Security K + Case

**Round 3:** East Kentwood SG - South Korea Prostitution/Security/DnG
2NR: Capitalism K

**Round 5:** Stuyvesant HL - Okinawa Orientalism
2NR: Framework + Futenma PIC

**Octas:** Puyallup SM - Japan Rearm/BioD/North Korea
2NR: XO CP + SKFTA DA

===Lakeland=== 
**Round 2:** Monticello MP - Afghan Counternarcotics/Heg
2NR: XO CP + SKFTA DA

**Round 4:** Edgemont JK - Naval Nationalism
2NR: Security K

**Round 6:** Bronx Science BK - COIN
2NR: Security K