[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">SHACKLES AC:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Plan Text: The United States Federal Government ought to ban indiscriminate shackling policies in all federal, state, and local criminal justice systems.</span>

<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;">Anita Nabha [J.D. Candidate, Brooklyn Law School, 2009; M.S., Columbia</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University School of Social Work, 2005; B.A., Amherst College, 2001]</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> “Why Children Should Not be Shackled” Brooklyn Law Review. 2008.</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Lexis-Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Bernard P. Perlmutter [Assistant Professor of Clinical Legal Education</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University of Miami School of Law; Director of the Children & Youth</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Law Clinic.] “SYMPOSIUM ISSUE: IN RE GAULT: ARTICLE: "UNCHAIN THE</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING” Barry Law</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Review Fall, 2007. Lexis Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Packer, 2003 [Jeremy, Assistant Professor of Communications at Penn</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> State, Foucault, Cultural Studies, and Governmentality, p. 151-153]</span>


Foucault, Chair in the History of Systems of Thought, College de
France, 1976 [Michel, The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An
Introduction, p. 135-140]

William Spanos [Professor of English at Binghamton University], The
End of Education: Towards Posthumanism, 1993, p. 196.


==Negative== 
LWOP PIC:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 17px; line-height: 26px;">Text: The USFG will ban the imposition of life in prison without parole sentence for convicted juveniles.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">H.L.A. </span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Hart</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 19</span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">55</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 10.0pt;">**__Aero,__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Evelyn [LL.B. Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda] and Ntsika </span>**__& Fakudza__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [B.A. Law, LL.B. - University of Swaziland]. "The United States of America: Juvenile Life without Parole." Indiana Law, Nov.-Dec. 20</span>**__10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Web. 8 Jan. 2011. [[http://indylaw.indiana.edu/humanrights/shadowreports/USA%20Juvenile%20Life%20Without%20Parole.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 10.0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Connie de la</span> **__Vega__** **__and__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michelle </span>**__Leighton__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**__08__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Connie de la Vega is Professor of Law and Director of the Frank C. Newman International Human Rights Clinic, University of San Francisco School of Law. Michelle Leighton is Director of Human Rights Programs, Center for Law and Global Justice, University of San Francisco School of Law]“Sentencing Our Children to Die in Prison: Global Law and Practice” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 42. Spring 2008.</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 13pt;">**__Human Rights Watch__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "Letter from Human Rights Organizations to CERD regarding Juvenile Life Without Parole in the US | Human Rights Watch." //Home | Human Rights Watch//. 4 June 20</span>**__09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Web. 08 Jan. 2011. [[http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/06/04/letter-human-rights-organizations-cerd-regarding-juvenile-life-without-parole-us]]</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 13pt;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**__//Lawyers PIC//__**
Counterplan text: In the U.S. juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be treated as adults in the criminal justice system except legal counsel for them must be mandatory.
solvency advocates yo:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px; margin-right: -0.7in;">Berkheiser, Mary. “The Fiction Of Juvenile Right To Counsel: Waiver In The Juvenile Courts” 54 Fla. L. Rev. 2002.</span>

<span class="LDDebateCard">Grisso 80</span> <span class="LDDebateCut"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Grisso [Professor of Psychiatry, Director of Psychology, and Director of the Law-Psychiatry Program at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. Associations providing special acknowledgement of Dr. Grisso’s research contributions have included the American Psychological Association’s Award for Distinguished Contributions to Research in Public Policy (1995), the American Psychiatric Association’s Isaac Ray Award (2005), an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice (1998), and an Honorary Fellow Award by the Royal College of Psychiatrists (U.K.).] “Juveniles' Capacities to Waive Miranda Rights: An Empirical Analysis” California Law Review, Vol. 68, No. 6 (Dec., 1980), pp. 1134-1166</span></span></span></span>


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]