[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Gewirth AC

definition of ought
Mortimer Adler: “The truth and the good” “A prescriptive statement…A matter of fact”
morality must be prescriptive.
D. Wingerter: “Descriptive and Prescriptive Truth” “The 18th Century British Philosopher…of material events themselves.”
Value is morality
Will Kymlicka: “Rawls on Teleology and Deontology” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 17, No. 3 (Summer, 1988), pp. 173-190 Published by: Blackwell Publishing
agent centric deontological morality
Alan Gewirth: “Reason and Morality” “The agent has, in virtue…involved in his action”
Alan Gewirth: “Reason and Morality” “The agent’s positive…attaining one’s goals.”
autonomy comes first
Mack, Eric. (associate professor of philosophy at Tulane University,) “In Defense of 'Unbridled' Freedom of Contract,” American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 40, No. 1 (Jan., 1981), pp. 1-15
Contention 1
nuclear deterrence is equal to hostage holding
Steven Lee: “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” “The problems…as mere means”

==Negative== 

Moral Obligations NC

burden
Lloyd Gerson. “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach.” Published in Aristotle’s Politics Today, compiled by Lenn E. Goodman and Robert B. Talisse. Albany: SUNY Press, 2007.
“We typically and rightly…are fictions, too.” 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]