[[toc]]
=[[#Bronx 1AC]]AFF= 
=Lexington 1AC= 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__**Observation 1 is Inherency:**__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**Japanese public opinion is strongly against U.S. marine presence – it is focused on domestic politics now, but failure to resolve the issue will spill-over and be displaced threatening ALL U.S. bases in Japan**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"> **Sneider 6/3/****<span style="font-size: 7pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Daniel Sneider is the associate director for research at the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, He currently directs the center's project on Nationalism and Regionalism and the Divided Memories and Reconciliation project, Slate Magazine, “Did Washington Bring Down the Japanese Prime Minister?,”//)//</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">In March, I found...__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">each other. It is a good question</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**Despite tension with North Korea, Okinawa’s election prove Kan can’t stop public opposition to bases**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**__McCurry 11/30__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Justin; Correspondent; posted November 30, 2010 at 10:57 am EST; EST Japan's response to North Korea takes on a sharper edge Prime Minister Naoto Kan is finding his nation dependent on the US in responding to North Korea, even as public opposition to the US base on Okinawa remains high; http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-Pacific/2010/1130/Japan-s-response-to-North-Korea-takes-on-a-sharper-edge/(page)/2)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">While there was no...__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">keep protecting it.</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">”</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**Futenma causes too much public outrage that inevitably spills over, we’ll lose all our bases, most importantly our Air Force and Navy presence there.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**O’Hanlon 2001** //<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span>////<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-style: normal;">Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx|//http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx//]]</span>////<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ending the Occupation Legacy. </span></span>
__The United States keeps__... 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">of Japanese security policy.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all Marines stationed in Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.</span>**



__**Observation 2: The Kadena Airbase**__

**Kadena is strategically more important than our marine presence for deterrence. We need to shore up political support by removing our marines.**
**Mochizuki,** **1-10-10** (Mike & Michael, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University & O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, “A proposed compromise on Futenma: The unnecessary crisis,” The Oriental Economist)

<span style="color: black;">Wh</span>y have washington<span style="color: black;">...of the US-Japan Security Treaty</span>



//**<span style="font-style: normal;">Strategic __speed__ is critical – Air Power is key to checking back conflict escalation throughout the region.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-style: normal;">Tellis et al ’98</span>**// //<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf|//http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf//]]</span>////)//

__//The//__ __//second key...//tanker support__.


**And Kadena is critical to deterring a China – Taiwan conflict**
**Ross 2002** (Robert, Political Sicence Professor at Boston College & Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies at Harvard University, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations, International Security)

__Deterrence could fail if____...maintain the security of Taiwan.__


**The U.S. will get drawn into a China-Taiwan conflict which escalates to nuclear war.**
**Hunkovic**, 200**9** (Lee, of the American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict: Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan, and the United States,” American Military University Course Paper, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]])

World News Connection__...considered in this study.__



__**Observation 3: The Yokosuka Naval Base**__

**Failure to do the plan puts fatal stress on the alliance – We’d lose our ability to station an aircraft carrier in Japan on Yokosuka which militarily isolates Japan and undercuts our credibility in Asia**
**Auslin, 6-16**-10 (Micahel, Director of Japan Studies at the American Enterprise Institute & former History Professor & Senior Research Fellow at the MacMilan Center for Interantation & Area Studes at Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” Wall Street Journal Asia, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/102196]]</span>)
<span class="Underline">A great sigh of relief...however, is another matter.</span>

<span class="Underline"> </span>

**This is one place we cannot budge – Yokosuka prevents global escalation**
**Johnson and Krulak ’96** – *Chief of Naval Operations and **Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps (Jay and Charles, “Forward Presence Essential to U.S. Interests,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=870]]</span>)**
**<span class="Underline">Also this morning, U.S. Navy...uncertain and sometimes fiery times.</span>**



And, the South China Sea is a Critical Flashpoint – Miscalculation and Lack of Communication Makes the Risk of Escalation High
The Global Post 6/27/10 **(“South China Sea: The coming war?,” pg online @ [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military]]//)//**
**TAIPEI, Taiwan — It's a 3.5 million...roaming around as well. So it's getting crowded underwater."** 



China’s rise as a global power is inevitable, they will always seek power in competition with the United States, it’s only a matter of how we frame our interactions.
Kagan, 09 **(Robert, PhD from American University, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Adjunct Professor of History at Georgetown University “Ambition and Anxiety”, The rise of China: essays on the future competition, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)**

**__The struggle between...____willingness to take no for an answer.__**



__Observation 4: Relations__ 
Not reducing Marine deployments in Japan ensures China will perceive that we are trying to control them – Causes an escalation of tensions and conflict, potentially resulting in extended military combat our economic warfare.
Bandow**,** 5-25-10 **(Doug, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, a Senior Fellow at The Cato Institute, & former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia,” [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]])**

**__While the U.S. remains...____<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">one of peace and stability</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span>** 



Strong U.S. – Sino relations and cooperation prevents extinction. Cooperation is the only way to solve economic stability, terrorism, crime, prolif, and disease spread.
Wenzhong, PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2004
**(Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States,” [[http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm]])**
**<span class="underline">China's</span> development need...<span class="underline">rest of the international community.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And, Ensuring continued cooperation over the outcome of the plan, while increasing burden-sharing on Japan results in an Effective Alliance – solves Effective Integration of China, and Solves Multiple Scenarios for Extinction that outweigh your disad.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NYE 2008</span> **(Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, pg online @ [[http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057]]//)//**

**__Many analysts currently...____look more promising than ever.__**


__Observation 5: Solvency__ 

Failure to do the plan results in the loss of the other American bases throughout Japan, this is the only way to maintain our defense capabilities. 
Ennis, 8-18 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-10</span> **(Peter, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, “Gates and Japan,” Dispatch Japan, [[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/08/gates-and-japan.html]])**
**Okinawa is home to the III Marine...the Sasebo naval base in Kyushu.**



And, The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – It’s key to Asian stability.
Barkdoll, 3-15-6 **(Timothy, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College)**

**__The security alliance...____relevance of the alliance.__**




=**Bronx 1AC**= 
**Observation 1 is Inherency:**

Futenma is like a time bomb on the entire U.S. Japan alliance. 
Kusumoto**, from Stars & Stripes,** 6-18-10 **(Hana, “Futenma fight could linger despite Japan's new prime minister,” Stars and Stripes, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689|www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689]])**
**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">Kan is taking a different tack ...“is like a time bomb.”</span>**


Japanese public opinion is strongly against Futenma – it is focused on domestic politics now, but failure to resolve the issue will spill-over and be displaced on the U.S. threatening ALL U.S. bases in Japan
Sneider 6/3/10 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Daniel Sneider is the associate director for research at the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, He currently directs the center's project on Nationalism and Regionalism and the Divided Memories and Reconciliation project, Slate Magazine, “Did Washington Bring Down the Japanese Prime Minister?,”//)//</span>**
**<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">In March, I found...is a good question.</span>**


__Advantage 1: The Kadena Airbase__
Failure to do the plan results in the loss of the other American bases throughout Japan, this is the only way to maintain our defense capabilities. 
Ennis, 8-18 -10 **(Peter, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, “Gates and Japan,” Dispatch Japan, [[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/08/gates-and-japan.html]])**
**<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Okinawa is home to ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">naval base in Kyushu.</span></span>**


Futenma causes too much public outrage that inevitably spills over, we’ll lose all our bases, most importantly Kadena Airbase.
O’Hanlon 2001 **//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span>////<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-style: normal;">Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx|//http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx//]]</span>////<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>//**
**<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Ending the Occupation Legacy...of Japanese security policy.</span>**



Kadena is strategically more important than our marine presence for deterrence. We need to shore up political support by removing our marines.
Mochizuki, 1-10-10 **(Mike & Michael, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University & O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, “A proposed compromise on Futenma: The unnecessary crisis,” The Oriental Economist)**

**<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 9.5pt; text-align: justify;">Why have Washington...US-Japan Security Treaty</span>**




And, Kadena is critical to deterring a China – Taiwan conflict
Ross 2002 **(Robert, Political Sicence Professor at Boston College & Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies at Harvard University, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations, International Security)**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Deterrence could security of Taiwan.</span>**



The U.S. will get drawn into a China-Taiwan conflict which escalates to nuclear war.
Hunkovic**, 200**9 **(Lee, of the American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict: Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan, and the United States,” American Military University Course Paper, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]])**


**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: justify;">World News ...this study.</span>**


<span style="font-style: normal;">//Strategic __speed__ is critical – Air Power is key to checking back conflict escalation throughout the region.//</span> 
<span style="font-style: normal;">//Tellis et al ’98//</span>  **//<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-style: normal;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf|//http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf//]]</span>////<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>//**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: justify;">The second ...tanker support.</span>**


And, the South China Sea is a Critical Flashpoint – Miscalculation and Lack of Communication Makes the Risk of Escalation High
The Global Post 6/27/10 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“South China Sea: The coming war?,” pg online @ [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military]]//)//</span>**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: justify;">TAIPEI, Taiwan — ...getting crowded underwater." </span>**


__Advantage 2: Getting Up in China’s Grill__
Not reducing Marine deployments in Japan ensures China will perceive that we are trying to contain them – Causes an escalation of tensions and conflict.
Bandow**,** 5-25-10 **(Doug, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, a Senior Fellow at The Cato Institute, & former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia,” [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]])**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: justify;"> While the U.S. remains ...one of peace and stability.</span>**




Nuclear war
Hadar, 96 **(Leon, Adjunct Scholar of the Cato Institute, Jan 26th, “The Sweet-and-Sour Sino-Americna Relationship”, Cato Policy Analysis No. 428 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-248.html]])**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The containment hawks and...launches a military invasion.</span>**


Tense conflicts with China are inevitable
Kagan, 09 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Robert, PhD from American University, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Adjunct Professor of History at Georgetown University “Ambition and Anxiety”, The rise of China: essays on the future competition, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The struggle between...for an answer.</span>**



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And, Ensuring continued cooperation over the outcome of the plan, while increasing burden-sharing on Japan results in an Effective Alliance – solves Effective Integration of China, and Solves Multiple Scenarios for Extinction that outweigh your disad.</span>
NYE 2008 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, pg online @ [[http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057]]//)//</span>**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;"> Many analysts currently detect...more promising than ever.</span>**



Last, Strong U.S. – Sino relations and cooperation prevents extinction. Cooperation is the only way to solve economic stability, terrorism, crime, prolif, and disease spread.
Wenzhong, PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2004
**<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: justify;"> (Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States,” [[http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm]])</span>**
**<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">China's</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> development needs...<span class="underline">of the international community.</span> </span></span>**


__Observation 3 is Solvency__

Not doing the plan undermines our ability to hold onto Kadena – The plan saves the base without impacting deterrence.
O’Hanlon, 9-2-4 **(Michael, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, before the Commission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States, [[http://govinfo.library.unt.edu/osbc/documents/OSBC%20transcript%209-2-04.pdf]])**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;"> Second point. Okinawa, Japan... reconsider some of that.</span>**



And, The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – It’s key to Asian stability.
Barkdoll, 3-15-6 **(Timothy, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College)**

**<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: justify;"> The security alliance...relevance of the alliance.</span>**


----
=**NEG**= 

=<span style="line-height: normal;"> Victory DA </span>= 

==<span style="line-height: normal;"> 1NC Shell </span>== 

A-UQ:
North Korean war inevitable by end of year, but the US would win in the case of a war
Manasan 10 **(May 28, 2010, ‘Pressure to bolster North Korean Leader Leads to Conflict’, Althea Manasan, writer for the National Post, The National Post is <span style="color: #464646;">owned and operated by Postmedia Network Inc., Canada's largest publisher by circulation of paid English-language daily newspapers. Its properties include daily newspapers in cities across Canada including the Vancouver Sun, The Province, the Calgary Herald, the Edmonton Journal, the Ottawa Citizen and the National Post, as well as more than 50 destination websites)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: normal;">While some experts believe tensions on the Korean <span style="color: #464646;">........................</span>__that North Korea would lose it.”__</span>**


B-Link:
Presence is key to win – without it we can’t defend South Korea or bring in reinforcements
GLOBAL SECURITY ’10 //(“//**//OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm]]</span>//**//)// 

**<span style="line-height: normal;">Pyongyang can credibly<span style="color: #464646;">........................</span>conducting over-the-shore operations.</span>**



C- Internal Link:
Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American credibility – spills over to an entire destruction of hegemony
GREEN 5-27 **//(Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true|**http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true**]]</span>)//**

**It’s almost certain .....sent is most un-American. “Tread on Me.”**


==**2NC- War Inevitable**== 

North Korea war inevitable- but US presence and strategy is key to winning
Sutherland 10 **(July 27, 2010, ‘US weighs its options in Possible N. Korean Conflict’, JJ Sutherland speaks for the National Public Radio, a thriving media organization at the forefront of digital innovation, NPR creates and distributes award-winning news, information, and music programming to a network of 900 independent stations. Through them, NPR programming reaches 27.2 million listeners every week)**

**<span style="line-height: normal;">About 20 ships and submarines .......... some things still can't be planned for.</span>**


==<span style="line-height: normal;"> 2NC-- Presence Key </span>== 

===<span style="line-height: normal;">**Korean Stability**</span>=== 

<span style="line-height: normal;">[[#_Toc277331667]]</span>
**<span style="line-height: normal;">Jacquelyn S. Porth, USINFO, Staff Writer, U.S. Pacific Command’s Directorate for Strategic Planning and Policy, ’07, “U.S. Military Bases Provide Stability, Training, Quick Reaction”, http://www.america.gov/st/washfile-english/2007/February/20070227132836sjhtrop0.6571466.html</span>**

**<span style="line-height: normal;">Washington -- The United.........on the Korean Peninsula. </span>**


===<span style="line-height: normal;">**Asian Stability**</span>=== 

[[#_Toc277331669]]
**<span style="line-height: normal;">MAJOR SIOBAN J. LEDWITH; Masters In Military Studies Student; 1/7/02; US Forces Korea: The Key to Cooperative Stability and Security in Northeast Asia-Conclusion</span>**
**<span style="line-height: normal;">After examining and analyzing.....countries in the Northeast Asia region.</span>**


===**North Korea/China**=== 


[[#_Toc277331671]]

**Jeane J. Kirkpatrick <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boot,</span></span> Senior Fellow for National Security Studies at the Council of Foreign Relations, May 31, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> (Max Boot, “America is Still the Best Guarantor of Freedom and Propsperity”, published in the Los Angeles Times, pg. 2)** 

**Much <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">nonsense</span>__</span>.....as the world's sole superpower.**


=**Aid DA**= 

==**1NC Shell**== 


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. UQ- Obama has underfunded US AID agencies right now </span>
**[[http://www.nydailynews.com/authors/Michael%20Cohen|**Cohen**]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ’09</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (New York Daily News 11/30, “Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back progress on other fronts,” pg online @ [[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html]] ghs-ef) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sending from 30,000...... foreign policy agencies? </span>**



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B- Link: <span class="Author-Date">Western States and the US are making commitments to Afghanistan now-trades off with African peacekeeping</span></span>
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc277279276]][[#_Toc277279276]]<span style="color: #333333;">13 Mar 10, Empty Rhetoric on African Peacekeeping, Benjamin de Carvalho is a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs (NUPI). His research on peacekeeping has focused on the protection of civilians, rule of law, and sexual and gender-based violence in Sudan, Chad and Liberia)</span></span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A proud nation of peace.....</span>someone in Europe a call.**



<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">C-Internal Link: The US delivers aid in peacekeeping forces mostly for regional dominance-Congo proves</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Gambino 08 {Anthony W. Gambino</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> served for two and half years as USAID mission director for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, receiving USAID's Superior Honor Award. He first went to Congo (then called Zaïre) in 1979, where he served for three years as a Peace Corps volunteer. From 1997 to 2004, he worked for USAID on the Congo and other countries in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. He returned to the Congo in 2006 to monitor presidential and National Assembly elections. He has worked on international development issues for the House of Representatives, the State Department, and nonprofit organizations. He presently works as an independent consultant on international development and foreign policy issues.}</span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As fighting between........</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">in the health sector." </span>**



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D. Impact </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1. <span style="color: black;">US China competition for dominance and influence leads to conflict </span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Klare</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Peace & World Security Studies at Hampshire College, 2K</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">6</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, “The African ‘Oil Rush’ and US National Security,” Third World Quarterly, Volume 27, Number 4) </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is still early days.....</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">critical, scrutiny.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1) Encroaching into</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> China’s sphere of influence leads nuclear conflagration</span>

Eland 05 **(Ivan Eland - Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute - 4/11/05 (“Coexisting with a Rising China,” http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494)**


**<span style="border-style: none; display: block; margin: 0in; padding: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although China.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nuclear conflagration.</span></span>**





==<span style="border-style: none; margin: 0in; padding: 0in;">**UQ**</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There s US Forces in Africa currently, especially for peacekeeping </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paterson 08</span></span>**<span style="color: #252525; font-size: 10pt;">{Lieutenant Commander Patrick Paterson, U.S. Navy LCDR Patrick Paterson is the command foreign area officer at U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command in Mayport, Florida. He received a B.S. from the U.S. Naval Academy and an M.A. from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. He is also a 2002 graduate of the Argentina Naval War College in Buenos Aires. Commander Paterson served on staff with Special Operations Command Europe and was responsible for deploying units in support of Operation Enduring Freedom--Trans Sahara, coordinating African peacekeeping efforts among U.S. and NATO forces and developing maritime strategy in the Gulf of Guinea. </span><span style="color: #555555; font-size: 10pt;">COPYRIGHT 2008 U.S. Army CGSC, COPYRIGHT 2008 Gale, Cengage Learning} </span>**

**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Peacekeeping.....</span>**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">military leaders.</span>




==Links== 

===Iraq=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan prevent US troops from being sent to Africa </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paterson 08</span></span>**<span style="color: #252525; font-size: 10pt;">{Lieutenant Commander Patrick Paterson, U.S. Navy LCDR Patrick Paterson is the command foreign area officer at U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command in Mayport, Florida. He received a B.S. from the U.S. Naval Academy and an M.A. from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. He is also a 2002 graduate of the Argentina Naval War College in Buenos Aires. Commander Paterson served on staff with Special Operations Command Europe and was responsible for deploying units in support of Operation Enduring Freedom--Trans Sahara, coordinating African peacekeeping efforts among U.S. and NATO forces and developing maritime strategy in the Gulf of Guinea. </span><span style="color: #555555; font-size: 10pt;">COPYRIGHT 2008 U.S. Army CGSC, COPYRIGHT 2008 Gale, Cengage Learning}</span>**

**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The difficulty of training........</span><span style="color: #252525;">interest for the United States." (54)</span>**



===**Afghanistan**=== 


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Western States and the US are making commitments to Afghanistan now-trades off with African peacekeeping </span></span>
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc277279282]][[#_Toc277278968]][[#_Toc277276597]][[#_Toc277228341]][[#_Toc277228150]]<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> {13 Mar 10, Empty Rhetoric on African Peacekeeping, Benjamin de Carvalho is a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs (NUPI). His research on peacekeeping has focused on the protection of civilians, rule of law, and sexual and gender-based violence in Sudan, Chad and Liberia}</span></span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A proud nation of peace.........</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">in Europe a call.</span>**



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Soldiers from Afghanistan move to peacekeeping regions in Africa-Canada proves </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fisher 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">{‘After Afghanistan-Canadian Troops Provide Peacekeeping in Congo,’ 10-8-10, Matthew Fisher writes for Canada News, owned and operated by Postmedia Network Inc., Canada's largest publisher by circulation of paid English-language daily newspapers. Its properties include daily newspapers in cities across Canada including the Vancouver Sun, The Province, the Calgary Herald, the Edmonton Journal, the Ottawa Citizen and the National Post, as well as more than 50 destination websites.}</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Canadian soldiers....</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">UN regards as a three-star billet.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Forces are prevented from deployment in Africa because of Afghan war </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Afrol News 10</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (March 25, 2010, ‘Africa left alone over Afghan War,’ afrol News is an independent news agency, established in 2000. We exclusively cover the African continent, in English, Spanish, French and in Portuguese.) </span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Western nations....</span>**its own peacekeeping missions.** 


==Internal Links== 

===Regional Dominance=== 

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The US delivers aid in peacekeeping forces mostly for regional dominance-Congo proves</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Gambino 08 {Anthony W. Gambino</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> served for two and half years as USAID mission director for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, receiving USAID's Superior Honor Award. He first went to Congo (then called Zaïre) in 1979, where he served for three years as a Peace Corps volunteer. From 1997 to 2004, he worked for USAID on the Congo and other countries in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. He returned to the Congo in 2006 to monitor presidential and National Assembly elections. He has worked on international development issues for the House of Representatives, the State Department, and nonprofit organizations. He presently works as an independent consultant on international development and foreign policy issues.}</span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As fighting between....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the health sector."</span>**



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Heg**</span>=== 



<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Peacekeeping organizations further the notion of hegemony of dominant states </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Conteh-Morgan 01</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> {International Journal for Peace Studies, Vol 6-2, April 2001. </span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Earl Conteh-Morgan</span> **<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">is Professor of International Studies in the Department of Government and International Affairs, at the University of South Florida. He authored Democratization in Africa: The Theory and Dynamics of Political Transitions (Praeger, 1997), co-authored Sierra Leone at the End of the Twentieth Century: History, Politics, and Society; and co-edited Peacekeeping in Africa: ECOMOG in Liberia. His articles have appeared in many journals. He is currently analyzing the impact of globalization processes on Africa from a neo-Gramscian perspective.} </span></span>**


**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Institutionalization is an....</span></span>system of diversity.**






<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Peacekeeping and spheres of influence lead to an extended view of the nation-state, furthering hegemony</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Conteh-Morgan 01</span>
**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> {International Journal for Peace Studies, Vol 6-2, April 2001. </span></span>**
**<span class="bold"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Earl Conteh-Morgan</span></span> is Professor of International Studies in the Department of Government and International Affairs, at the University of South Florida. He authored Democratization in Africa: The Theory and Dynamics of Political Transitions (Praeger, 1997), co-authored Sierra Leone at the End of the Twentieth Century: History, Politics, and Society; and co-edited Peacekeeping in Africa: ECOMOG in Liberia. His articles have appeared in many journals. He is currently analyzing the impact of globalization processes on Africa from a neo-Gramscian perspective.}**



**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the developing state......</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">state sovereignty.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">US hegemony is furthered by accommodating needs of Africans</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foot, MacFarlane, Mastanduno et. al 03</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">{©Oxford University Press. US Hegemony and International Organizations brings together a range of leading scholars to examine this crucial phenomenon. Its aims are two-fold: to describe US behavior towards institutions, and to examine the impact of US behavior. Rosemary Foot is Professor of International Relations and Johm Swire Senior Fellow </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">at St. Anthony College. Neil MacFarlane is Lester B. Pearson Professor of International Relations and Fellow of Oxford. Michael Mastanduno is Nelson A. Rockerfeller Professor of Govt. at Dartmouth College.}</span>





It refers......policies



===Impacts=== 
some kind of war