[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==__Afghanistan 1AC -__== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.
OR
Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.

==__Hegemony Advantage__== 
First, we’re not ahead – Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan. 
Nelson, ‘9 – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)
Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to … expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail.

Failure is inevitable in the status quo – Corruption, lack of resources, ethnic tensions, and geography make the strategy ineffective.
Dorronsoro, ‘10 - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863)
The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse … recognize the impossibility of a military solution.

The Afghan COIN model is disastrous for US hegemony – We will control 5 internals
a. Budget Paralysis
The new military posture requires massive investment, which collapses our budget. 
Klare, 10 - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010)
Now we have President Obama and his domineering Defense Secretary … to a world of increased anti-Americanism and violence.

b. Retrenchment 
COIN ultimately results in abandonment – loss of leadership here will result in countless scenarios of destruction. 
Kretkowski, ‘10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)
Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of … or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

c. Morale & Readiness
Afghanistan is a quagmire –presence eviscerates American morale.
Kuhner, 9 - the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) 
America is losing the war in Afghanistan … Afghans into the evil, welcoming arms of extremists

d. Credibility 
The plan restores it with generals and foreign leaders – It ensures a sustainable presence and incentivizes political solutions instead of civil war. 
Stewart, ‘10 - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)
As long as the US asserted that Afghanistan was an existential threat … That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world

e. Overstretch
Reframing our grand strategy is key to an adequate strategic reserve.
Friedman, ‘10 - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,
http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan)
The exit of U.S. forces represents a bid to reinstate … to free up forces and re-establish its ground reserves

Loss of primacy guarantees world wars. 
Kagan 07 - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy … influence and global involvement will provide an easier path

The impact is extinction
Nye 90 (Joseph, University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard University., “Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power”, 17-18)
Perceptions of change in the relative power of nations … which two nations have dominated the balance of power.

Even if they win that a world without hegemony is good, they still lose – getting there would mean massive transition wars across the globe
Brzezinski 5 (Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4) 
History is a record of change, a reminder that nothing endures … enlist others in a common effort to shape a secure international environment.

Less is more – shifting to a counterterrorism strategy maintains public support allows for a smaller, but permanent presence in the region. 
Stewart, ‘9 - Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)
The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of foreign troops … In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.

==__Pakistan Advantage__== 

The SQ counter-insurgency will collapse Pakistan
Akhtar, ‘10- professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)

This was part of the larger design of US military … but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.
Pakistan collapse causes nuclear war
Pitt, ‘9- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)
As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where … gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.

We solve because CT allows more effective war on terror.
Chellany, ‘9 - professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html)
When the administration's principal war target is not … groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e- Mohammed.

Nuclear terrorism independently causes extinction.
Morgan, ‘9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, July 10, Futures 41 (2009) 683–693)
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks … a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well.

Withdrawal immediately turns the population against the Taliban, solving legitimacy
Dorronsoro, ‘9 -Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf)
This three-zone strategy is not, per se, a game- changer … primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.

Indicts misunderstand the plan – it is resourced to provide force protection, intelligence, training and will maintain the support of the locals
Long, 10 - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)
This insoluble problem is why the counterterrorism option is important … it is vastly larger than any other counterterrorism deployment.

==__Government Advantage - Golden Desert__== 
**The December Review set in motion a political battle between the President and his military commanders. In the status quo, Obama will cave and recommit to COIN. This cements DOD control over foreign policy and eviscerates civilian control over the military.**
Joshua **Foust, ‘10**, military intelligence analyst who specializes in the socio-cultural dynamics of irregular warfare, has worked on open-source analysis programs for the Defense Intelligence Agency and as an analyst for Afghanistan, 11-16-2010 (“Don’t bring a knife to a gunfight… over Afghan strategy,” Need To Know—a public affairs program on PBS, November 16th, Available Online at http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/voices/don%E2%80%99t-bring-a-knife-to-a-gunfight%E2%80%A6-over-afghan-strategy/5168/, Accessed 11-18-2010)
__The war in Afghanistan is at a crossroads__… watching them very closely. 

**This usurpation of grand strategy by the military brass will have devastating consequences—military dominance of foreign policy results in tunnel vision, conflict escalation, and adventurist wars that drag the U.S. into perpetual quagmires.**
**Martin,** editor of Obsidian Wings, The Progressive Realist, and American Footprints**, ’10** (Eric holds a B.A. in Philosophy from New York University and a J.D. from Fordham University, 10-09-2010 (“If All You Have Is A Hammer…,” American Footprints—a foreign policy blog, October 9th, Available Online at http://americanfootprints.com/wp/2010/10/if-all-you-ask-is-a-hammer/, Accessed 10-19-2010)
__One of the maladies plaguing … world be damned.__


**COIN destroys the internal working of the government and shreds foreign policy coherence**
**Cohen 09** (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back progress on other fronts", [[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html]])
Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops … and his presidency.

**Presence in Afghanistan also kills our moral legitimacy – withdrawal opens up space for diplomacy**
**Pascal 09** - Zachary Pascal is a member of the In These Times Board of Editors and a professor of journalism at Stanford University and is a fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan|The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan]]”,October 12, 2009, [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1717/106/]]

For President Obama, the stakes … __to problems in distant lands.__ 

**The impact is prolif and stability—cooperation ensures rising powers are stable and prevents nuke war**
**Dyer, 04** - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]

__War is deeply embedded in our history… within the context of the existing state system.__

==__Eurasian Relations Advantage__== 
**US-India relations are in flux but recent announcements, visits, and foreign policy changes mean improvements are coming.**  
Gulshan Madhur, ’11 (1/8, “The Future of U.S.–India Relations: What is on the Menu?” Pravasi News Today, http://www.pravasitoday.com/the-future-of-u-s-%E2%80%93india-relations-what-is-on-the-menu)

The recently concluded strategic dialogue between India and the US promises to clear the misconceptions … better days ahead for Indo-U.S. ties.

**Withdrawal crushes US-India relations – Afghanistan is the key test.**  
Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for New American Security, ’10 (Robert D, South Asia’s geography of Conflict, August, 2010)

India will emerge as the key Eurasian pivot state because of its effect on relations between … just Indian, but also Pakistani and Chinese elites, see the United States

**That solves Sino-Indo border disputes** 
Bidwai ‘7 (Praful, Inter Press Service, July 6 http://www.tni.org/detail_page.phtml?act_id=17111)
India's 'strategic partnership' with the US is having the predictable consequence of worsening its relationship with China.

Indian decision-makers are coming under growing … the price that India pays for courting the U.S."

**Continuing border disputes cause a nuclear war with China.** 
Kahn ’9 (Jeremy, Masters Degree in IR from London School of Economics and freelance journalist based in New Delhi, 10/10, Newsweek, “Why India Fears China”, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/10/09/why-india-fears-china.html)

China claims some 90,000 … China might retaliate against India. 

**Indo-Pak relations are zero-sum – improvements with India cool off US aid and support to Pakistan, which causes regime collapse.**  
Mirzayan, ‘10 (Gevorg, Special Foreign Affairs Correspondent, “Does US/India Strategic Alliance Leave Pakistan Out In the Cold?”, There Are No Sunglasses (Blog), 8-24, http://therearenosun glasses.wordpress.com/2010/08/24/does-usindia-strategic-alliance-leave-pakistan-out-in-the-cold/)

According to most analysts, the information war …Central Asia will become a new Middle East.

Pakistan collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism.
Pitt, ‘9- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)

As familiar as this sounds… addressing the situation. So should we all. 

**Nuclear terrorism independently causes extinction.** 
Morgan, ‘9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, July 10, Futures 41 (2009) 683–693)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, … upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well. 



==//__Hillman 1AC - MBA__//== 
**PLAN: The United States federal government should eliminate its military presence in Afghanistan.**

**Observation One: A Failure of Imagination**
**1. __Hegemony__ –**
**The American military portrays itself as the “Prince of Peace.” To quote a few leading hegemony authors, American unipolarity “deters hostile rivals;” it “projects power;” “it preserve order by acting as a global policeman;” and it “creates a balance of power in world politics that ensures stability.” This goal for primacy is the final crusade for peace itself.**
**Hillman in 2004** (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pg 84)
As latecomers (twenty- five centuries or more) … __battalions go abroad "waging peace__."

**2. __Military Presence__ –**
**It’s an integral part of this war for peace and is rooted in the definition of the phrase.**
**Thomason et al 2002** (IDA Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD Volume I: Main Report” This paper has been prepared by the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) in partial fulfillment of a task being performed for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense . The task, entitled “Effects-Based Assessments of US Presence and Deployment Patterns,” is being conducted to help the DoD identify evidence of the effects that actual and potential alternative US overseas military presence postures and activities have or may have in promoting key US defense and national security strategy goals. James S. Thomason, Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses EDUCATION Ph.D., International Relations, Northwestern University (1978) B.A., Government, Harvard College (1969) , [[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf]]) 
WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? __… should call for them__.2 

**And, our occupation of foreign countries is a failed attempt to manage and fix global problems. In short, our aversion to war is actually producing it.**
Thomas **Moore in 1990** (Thomas Moore is the author of the bestselling book Care of the Soul and fifteen other books. He has Ph. D. in religion from Syracuse University and has won several awards for his work, including an honorary doctorate from Lesley University. //The essential James Hillman: a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition, 1-3)
Because of its family ties to medicine, __… in our symptoms is our soul.__

**3. __Sanitation__ –**
**Our presence in Afghanistan is the logical extreme of this aversion. Drones sanitize war and remove operators from the massive amounts of damage done**
**Payne, ‘9** (Michael, American Foreign Policy Specialist for Online Journal and the Information Clearing House, “Deadly Drones: Immoral Weapons of Civilian Destruction,” October 23, 2009, http://www.opednews.com/articles/Deadly-drones-immoral-wea-by-michael-payne-091021-444.html) 
__I call the drones being used in Afghanistan … what America has become?__
**And, Counterinsurgency attempts to win the hearts of minds of Afghan civilians and our soldiers are made to see themselves as heroes crusading against the evil Taliban. This sanitized understanding of war brainwashes us, the civil soldiers, so we forget what war really is – war in the name of peace is the ultimate psychological delusion.**
**Hillman 04** (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 90-92)
Why dwell on this archaic …__the mind would be enough.__

**4. __Obama__**
**Declared the anti-war president, Obama was awarded the Nobel Peace prize for his vision of disarmament and love. Yet, every year, more drone strikes happen under his administration than the entire Bush presidency. This amplification of violence in Afghanistan is the underbelly of our pursuit of peace.**
**Hillman 04** (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 30-31)
__The worst of war is that it ends …__ declared for a sword.

**5. __Afghanistan__ –**
**We will conclude with a narrative describing the violence that takes place in Afghanistan every day.**
**Jaffry, ’10** (Abdul-Majid, “Afghanistan War: A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction, May 26, 2010, NWO Observer, 
http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/05/27/afghanistan-war-a-saga-of-lopsided-death-and-destruction/
__Today, history of another …__ with swords and lances. 


**Observation Two – The Role of the Ballot**

**The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it. The resolution should only be evaluated on its psychological qualities.**
**Jung 06** (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, __The Undiscovered Self__, New American Library, New York, 81-83)
__For more than fifty years we have known__… __can happen to everyone.__

**Refusing to operate on the terrain of the psyche ensures a loss of soul. This state of dehumanization destroys any meaning to life and risks death.**
**Hillman 1990** (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]], and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 17-18)-mikee
Anthropologists describe a condition among "primitive" … __in search of a soul__."

**Our 1AC is solvent – Military presence is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society. Unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.**
**Hillman 04** (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 1-3)
__One sentence in one scene from …__ is the purpose of this book.

**The negative will attempt to map out the topic and psychologically attempt to silence the soul within the topic by trying to empiricize and literalize it, and looking at implementation. In contrast we offer the plan of archetypal psychology: to explore our deep psychological commitments and affirm our most terrorizing images of the world, namely the topic of military presence.**
**Hillman 1990** (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]], and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 10-11)-mikee
Hillman's later essays flash with the … work, love, and play. 



=Negative= 

==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Kritiks**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">[[#Negative-Kritiks--Imperialism]]Imperialism</span>=== 
A. Pretending we have a voice in the formation of US military policy is politically disabling- it misidentifies the enemy and presumes a democracy which doesn’t exist. The state will never actualize base withdrawal because it wouldn’t advance their imperialist interests. The aff is like trying to explain to mass murderers that killing is wrong, rather than trying to stop them.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2001</span></span> (James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, <span class="NothingChar"><span style="background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9]]</span> Accessed</span> 6/27/10 GAL)
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">So although it is important...</span></span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">imperial power that is.</span>


B. Attempts to contain imperialism through existing political institutions fail- they only cause empire to mutate, rather than shrink. The alternative is to reorient our struggles around broad-based, bottom up resistance to global empire instead of reactive condemnation of particular interventions.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherman 2010</span></span> (Steven, “The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement”, __Dissident Voice__, March 10,<span class="NothingChar"><span style="background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/]]</span></span> Accessed 6/28/2010 GAL)
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The basic narrative ...</span></span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> more arms and bases.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 25px; line-height: 38px;">**T**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">[[#Negative-Kritiks--Imperialism]]Noncombat</span>=== 
A. Military presence consists of non-combat troops. This is the only way to give meaning to “presence” and it’s acceptably broad
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomason et al 2002 </span></span>(IDA Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD Volume I: Main Report” This paper has been prepared by the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) in partial fulfillment of a task being performed for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense . The task, entitled “Effects-Based Assessments of US Presence and Deployment Patterns,” is being conducted to help the DoD identify evidence of the effects that actual and potential alternative US overseas military presence postures and activities have or may have in promoting key US defense and national security strategy goals. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">James S. Thomason, Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses EDUCATION Ph.D., International Relations, Northwestern University (1978) B.A., Government, Harvard College (1969) , <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf]]</span></span>)

WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE?<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Our working definition of</span></span> US overseas <span class="UnderlinedCard">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">military presence</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> is that it consists of all the US military assets in overseas areas that are engaged in relatively routine</span></span>, regular, <span class="UnderlinedCard">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">non-combat</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> activities or functions</span></span>.1 By this definition, forces that are located overseas may or may not be engaging in presence activities. <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">If they are engaging in combat (such as Operation Enduring Freedom), or are involved in a one-time</span></span> non-combat <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">action</span></span> (such as an unscheduled carrier battle group deployment from the United States aimed at calming or stabilizing an emerging crisis situation), <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">then they are **not** engaging in presence activities</span></span>. Thus, an asset that is located (or present) overseas may or may not be “engaged in presence activities,” may or may not be “doing presence.”<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> We have thus far defined presence activities chiefly in “negative” terms—what they are not. In more positive terms</span></span>, what exactly are presence activities, i.e., what do presence activities actually entail doing? <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Overseas military presence activities are generally viewed as a subset of</span></span> the overall class of activities that the US government uses in its <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">efforts to promote important military/security objectives</span></span> [Dismukes, 1994]. A variety of recurrent, overseas military activities are normally placed under the “umbrella” concept of military presence. <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">These include but are not limited to US military efforts overseas to train foreign militaries; to improve inter-operability of US and friendly forces; to peacefully and visibly demonstrate US commitment and/or ability to defend US interests; to gain intelligence and familiarity with a locale; to conduct peacekeeping activities; and to position relevant, capable US military assets such that they are likely to be available sooner rather than later in case an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them</span></span>.2



B. Violation – the aff ends combat missions, not presence missions.

C. Voting issue -

1. limits – allowing combat missions allows affs to change specific strategies in Afghanistan or Iraq, like ending cluster bombing without actually reducing forces themselves, it explodes the literature base

2. negative ground – presence missions are about deterrence and reassurance – including combat missions avoids core negative disads

===Republic of Korea=== 

A. Interpretation and violation: the plan text uses the term "Republic of Korea" but the resolution says "South Korea" - the administration by the plan is larger than the geographical area included in the resolution.
Mullin 2009 (Andrew, REfugee Relief Tribunal, UN HIgh Commissioner on Refugees, Case Reference 0905614, Oct. 19, http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/pdfid/4b1cef832.pdf

The information also indicates...in South Korea.

B. Education: we should reject geographical inaccuracy
James 1997 (Preston E., Honorary President of the Association of American Geographers, "On the Origin and PErsistence of Error in Geography," Annals of the Association of American Geographers, March)

Human error concerning...in the future.



==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**[[#Negative-Politics]]Politics**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**[[#Negative-Politics-China Currency]]China Currency**</span>=== 

A. Uniqueness –
Momentum to pass China currency legislation is mounting but Obama will exert enough pressure to stop it in the status quo.
Doug <span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palmer and</span></span> David <span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lawder 9/16</span></span> (“US lawmakers grill Geithner on China currency stance,” Reuters)
Treasury Secretary Timothy ... standoffs with Iran and North Korea.

B. Links –
1. Obama must avoid heavy lifting, pick and choose battles – Congress will fight overambitious foreign policy goals like the plan.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kupchan, ‘10</span></span> [Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown U, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “Enemies into Friends,” in Foreign Affairs, Mar/Apr, Vol. 89, Iss 2, Proquest]

IF THE <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: fuchsia; font-size: 11pt;">Obama</span> </span>administration's ... <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: fuchsia; font-size: 11pt;">risk coming back empty-handed</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>


2. A politically weakened Obama will be unable to resist China bashing - causes a trade war and collapse of the global economy
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">King, ‘10</span></span> (1/25, Managing director of economics at HSBC, “Danger of a US-China trade war,”<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/comment/stephen-king-danger-of-a-uschina-trade-war-1878033.html]]</span>)

In the old days... suddenly feeling nervous.

C. Impacts –
Global economic crisis causes nuclear great-power war
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span></span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>

If current market turmoil ... <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: fuchsia; font-size: 11pt;">we may still have to fight</span></span>

===DADT=== 
A. Uniqueness: Will pass- the Pentagon has dropped enforcement of DADT
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bronstad, 10-19</span></span>-10 (Amanda, The National Law Journal, “Case against DADT depends on how well injunction against it works”, http://www.law.com/jsp/nlj/PubArticleNLJ.jsp?id=1202473611915&Case_against_DADT_depends_on_how_well_injunction_against_it_works)

Every day that...military," they wrote.

B. Link: Obama must avoid heavy lifting, pick and choose battles – Congress will fight overambitious foreign policy goals like the plan.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kupchan, ‘10</span></span> [Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown U, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “Enemies into Friends,” in Foreign Affairs, Mar/Apr, Vol. 89, Iss 2, Proquest]

If the Obama...back empty-handed.

C. Impact:
1. DADT crushes readiness.
NYT 10, 9/16, Don't Enforce 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/17/opinion/17fri1.html?partner=rssyt&emc=rss

For almost a generation...need for troops.

2. Military readiness is critical to deter conflict-impact is global wars drawing US in.
Spenser 2000 (Jack, Policy Analyst - Heritage Foundation, The Facts About Military Readiness, 9-15, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/BG1394.cfm]]</span>)

The evidence indicates...thereby preserving peace.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]