=<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Affirmative</span>= 
[[toc]]
==<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">1AC- Demilita</span><span style="font-family: futura;">rize debate</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">__**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">CONTENTION ONE: WHAT IS DEBATE?</span>**__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">High school policy debate is becoming militarized. Every year, hundreds of students attend tournaments across the country </span><span style="font-family: futura;">looking to discuss profoundly meaningful issues, but are lost in a perverse rhetoric of militarism. </span>****<span style="font-family: futura;">Every round, debaters engage in depictions of Nuclear Armageddon and global environmental catastrophe. The activity is a breeding ground for detached policymakers that take militarism to heart and regurgitate it through US imperialist foreign policy.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Spanos, 2002** (William, http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Dear Joe Miller … neocon policy makers is leading</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Policy debate has become a laughable simulation of policymaking. Any appeals to accuracy are long buried beneath the desire to imagine as many extinction scenarios as possible.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Schweitzer, 2006** (Nick, Software Consultant in the Milwaukee area. Among various geeky pursuits, he also likes to think he’s a political pundit. “Everything Causes Nuclear War” Janary 24, 2006 http://www.nickschweitzer.net/2006/01/25/EverythingCausesNuclearWar.aspx)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">I have another geeky confession to make … nuclear war damnit!</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Transforming debate into another national security apparatus undermines its libratory potential and suppresses critique.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Giroux, 2005** (Henry, Against the New Authoritarianism: Politics After Abu-Ghraib, Arbeiter Ring Publishing, 2005, Pages 40-43)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">A third feature of the emerging … approach to law enforcement.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">It is our intellectual responsibility to reject militarization and its depictions of violence. The discursive act of 1AC allows us to disrupt global systems of power, creating space for libratory politics.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Giroux, 2004** (Henry, “War on Terror The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States,” Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 220-221)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">As the forces of militarization … abroad stands in the balance.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Militarism in debate translates to militarism in society. Sacrificing our academic and argumentative spaces to the logic of domination undermines democratic values and forecloses public involvement in the political sphere.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Giroux, 2004** (Henry, “War on Terror The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States,” Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 218-219</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">)Militarism in both its … central to a democratic society.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Acting now is especially crucial. As the values of militarization continue to infect our academic spaces, we find ourselves enslaved by its vastness. Democratic activities like debate are the only check against the military’s pervasive presence</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Giroux, 2008** (Henry A. “Against the Militarized Academy,” t r u t h o u t, November 20, 2008, http://www.truth-out.org/112008J)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">In a post-9/11 world ... political, but also pedagogical in nature.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Debate’s unique form of scenario planning, which relies on depicting a limitless number of apocalyptic futures, supports rash decision-making that guarantees miscalculation and violence</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Krepon, 2009** (Michael, Co-Founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, a Diplomat Scholar at the University of Virginia “The Mushroom Cloud That Wasn't: Why Inflating Threats Won't Reduce Them” Foreign Affairs, May 2009 - June 2009 Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 3)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Predicting nuclear disasters ... United States and foreign intelligence services.</span>

__**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">CONTENTION TWO: ITS TIME TO CHANGE</span>**__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">We are resolved that military presence should be substantially decreased from policy debate. Debate is a fluid activity that lacks a concrete set of rules. The norms of debate are ultimately determined through a currency of wins and losses. Voting Affirmative moves the activity away from militarization and mobilizes a reconsideration of our language and motives within debate.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Bjork,1993** (Rebecca, former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">While reflecting on my experiences as a woman … we give up the only real power that we have.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Conventions should be done away with if they serve to reinforce an objectionable system. Challenging the norms of debate are the only means through which positive change can occur.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Skinner, 2007** (Beth, Director of Forensics at Towson University, “Rules and Laws,” 6/17/10, http://www.mail-archive.com/edebate@www.ndtceda.com/msg01716.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">I don't think there's a compelling … fundamental dissatisfactions people feel.</span>


=<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">1NC-- Capitalism K</span>== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The USFG isn’t pursuing the plan as a matter of choice, NOT because they are unaware of the harms. The Aff’s “we should” mentality makes them part of the bootlicking intelligentsia who assume:</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">A) That US imperialism, war-mongering, and oppression are merely a “mistake”</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">And B ) That the USFG actually gives a shit what they think.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Herod, 2001** (James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">I spent several years in the early . . . could begin to see another way.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The affirmative’s focus on immaterial relations rather than class conflict continues capitalism’s hegemony. This prevents a revolutionary mode of consciousness.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Zavarzadeh, 1994** (Mas’ud, Dept English @ Syracuse, 1994, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production,” The Alternative Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter, [[http://www.etext.org/Politics/AlternativeOrange/4/v4nl_cpp.html]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The task of this text [1] is to lay . . . tolerable, justifiable and naturalized.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The aff is not pulling back American Imperialism but redeploying it elsewhere. The removal will be fought against by U.S. elites and carried out a snail’s pace, only for the troops to be redistributed elsewhere.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**RAIM, 2009** (Revolutionary Anti-Imperialist Movement, August 22, 2009, “Obama: more troops, more imperialism, more of the same”[[http://raimd.wordpress.com/2009/08/22/obama-more-troops-more-imperialism-more-of-the-same/]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The election of Barack Obama . . . military to defend it.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The inherent use-value within the capitalist order negates the value to life and makes genocide and extinction inevitable.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Kovel, 2002** (Joel, Professor of Social Studies at Bard, The Enemy of Nature, pg 140-141)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The precondition of an . . . for global capital, the losses are regrettable necessities.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Our primary ethic should be to overcome capitalism because it naturalizes violence against the proletariat and predetermines politics.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Zizek & Daly, 2004** (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">For Zizek it is imperative that . . . in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Our alternative is to reject the affirmative. Our role is not to perform exemplary actions but rather take sides in the ongoing class struggle.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Tumino, 2002** (Stephen, Professor at Pitt, English Professor at Pitt, “Pierre Bourdieu as New Global Intellectual for Capital,” The Red Critique 6, September/October, [[http://redcritique.org/SeptOct02/pierrebourdieuasnewglobalintellectualforcapital.htm]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">It is only such a scientific knowledge . . . (Lenin What Is To Be Done? 41).</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Methodology is the foremost point of departure to any political query. You should prioritize epistemology first because the way you think about problems determines how you respond to them and the consequences they engender.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Smith, 1996** (Steve, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, “Positivism and Beyond,” International theory: Positivism and beyond, New York: Cambridge University Press, 12-1)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">But the stakes are also. . . seem to be the case.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Historical Materialism must come first as it predetermines the subject’s consciousness and the very possibilities of reflective thinking.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Marx, 1859** (Karl, A Contribution to the Critique of the Political Economy – Preface, located at Marxists.org)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">In the social production of their existence, . . . the framework of the old society.</span>


==<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">1NC-- Security K</span>== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The aff is not pulling back the American Empire but redeploying it elsewhere. The removal will be fought against by U.S. elites and carried out a snail’s pace, only for the troops to be redistributed elsewhere.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**RAIM, 2009** (Revolutionary Anti-Imperialist Movement, August 22, 2009, “Obama: more troops, more imperialism, more of the same”[[http://raimd.wordpress.com/2009/08/22/obama-more-troops-more-imperialism-more-of-the-same/]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The election of Barack … to defend it.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The aff’s construction of North Korea as a national security threat relies on aggressive crisis politics doomed to war – rejecting technostrategic discourse of North Korea is critical to challenge dominant narratives.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Bleiker, 2003** (Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, 2003 (“A Rogue Is A Rogue Is A Rogue: US Foreign Policy And The Korean Nuclear Crisis,” International Affairs, Volume 79, Issue 4, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Elite, p. 736-737)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">This article has … dilemmas of Korean security.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Their depiction of the Chinese threat is not a neutral description but a false discursive construct used to assert Western power.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Pan, 2004** (Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August 2004, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 141-142)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">There are some of … cognitively constructed before hand</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">That makes war inevitable.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Pan, 2004** (Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August 2004, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 43-44)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Like the liberal … in world affairs.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Their representation of apocalyptic violence ensures unending warfare and destruction.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Coviello, 2000** (Peter, Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College. “Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. “Apocalypse from Now On.”)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Apocalypse, as I begin by saying … scarcely be done without.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Our alternative is to reject the security logic within the affirmative—critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Cheeseman & Bruce, 1996** (Graeme, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert, Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ (Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">This goal is pursued … understand then, am why?</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Representations must precede policy discussion</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Crawford, 2002** (Neta, PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. Argument and Change in World Politics, 2002 p. 19-21)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Coherent arguments are…framing is a meta-argument.</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">1NC-- Predictions K</span>== 

===<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">South Korea 1NC</span>=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Scary predictions of Asian instability are based on cultural misunderstandings and have been repeatedly disproven.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Kang, 200**3 (David C., Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Colleg, “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Following the end … a necessary theoretical exercise.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Their general IR view of Asia can’t take into account the dynamic and different countries of Asia</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Kang, 2003** (David C., Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Colleg, “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Finally, the concept of “Asia” … from “the West.””</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates the agency of individuals within the system</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Bleiker, 2000** (Roland, Senior Lecturer and Coordinater of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, p. 48-49)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The very notion of prediction … ensuing political practices.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Worse-case thinking fails, causes political and social paralysis, and creates a defenseless society oriented around fear</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Schneier, 2010** (Bruce, Internationally renowned security technologist, Chief security technology officer of BT, Testified on security before Congress, 5/13/2010 “Worst Case Thinking” http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/worst-case_thin.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">At a security conference recently … listening to them.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Middle East 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Scholars severely lack skills necessary to predict Middle Eastern politics—experts agree</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Kramer, 2001** (Martin, past director of the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago, Cornell University, and Georgetown</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Each fall, MESA ... be done about it.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Their general IR doesn't take into account the dynamic and different Middle East</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Valbjorn, 2004 (**Martin, PhD in Political Sciences and assistant professor in the Department of the Political Science at the University of Aarhus. Supplementary degree in Middle East Studies, "Toward a 'Mesopotamian Turn': Disciplinarity and the Study of the International Relations of the Middle East, Journal of Mediterranean Studies, 2004 p52-55)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">At first sight ... logic would suggest.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates the agency of individuals within the system</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Bleiker, 2000** (Roland, Senior Lecturer and Coordinater of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, p. 48-49)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">The very notion of prediction … ensuing political practices.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">Worse-case thinking fails, causes political and social paralysis, and creates a defenseless society oriented around fear</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">**Schneier, 2010** (Bruce, Internationally renowned security technologist, Chief security technology officer of BT, Testified on security before Congress, 5/13/2010 “Worst Case Thinking” http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/worst-case_thin.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: futura;">At a security conference recently … listening to them.</span>