=Affirmative - Drones= 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention one is virtual war </span>

Drones instill a “playstation” spectator mentality to death and violence<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;"> </span>
<span class="cite">Koring 2010</span> [Paul Koring, Foreign correspondent for Globe and Mail, “U.S. Drone Attacks Blur the Lines of War”, 6/4/2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/us-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns/article1591920/]]</span>, 6/24/2010, K.C.]
Reapers and predators…and anonymous warfare. 


This risks a spectator mentality to death and violence 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Koring 2010</span></span> [Paul Koring, Foreign correspondent for Globe and Mail, “U.S. Drone Attacks Blur the Lines of War”, 6/4/2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/us-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns/article1591920/]]</span>, 6/24/2010, K.C.] 
Mr. Alston…UN Human Rights Council


The distancing built into drone operations creates space for surveillance and destruction that devalue life 
<span class="cite">Graham 06 (</span>STEPHEN GRAHAM, Centre for the Study of Cities and Regions, Department of Geography, University of Durham, Cities and the 'War on Terror'nWiley interscience <span class="MsoHyperlink">International Journal of Urban and Regional Research Volume 30, Issue 2</span>, Pages 255-276)
In the 'target'…dense megacities like Baghdad 

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Targeted killings hide their civilian causalities from public discourse</span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Wilcox ‘9 </span></span>(Lauren, Department of Political Science, University of Minnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Google Scholars, T.S.)<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
While the ‘terrorists’ …December 2008 and January 2009 


<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">Cold utilitarian calculus empirically fails to resolve the drone issue- it has been used to justify hundreds of civilian deaths with little to no result.</span>
<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788601]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Sharkey</span></span>, prof of AI and robotics University of Sheffield, Spring 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>, Death strikes from the skies: the calculus of proportionality, <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">IEEE TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY MAGAZINE)</span></span>
The difficulties of…value analysis of the target.


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The use of targeted killings turns the “target” into a subject of extermination that is based on biopolitical racism </span>**
<span class="cite">Wilcox ‘9 </span>(Lauren, Department of Political Science, University of Minnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Google Scholars, T.S.)
The use of targeted…targeting of terrorist. 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Contention two is Robo Wars 

**[[#_Toc277788603]]<span class="Author-Date"> </span>**
<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788604]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Drew, </span></span>investigative reporter at The New York Times, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span> (“Drones Are Weapons of Choice in Fighting Qaeda”, NYT, March, 2009, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/17/business/17uav.html?_r=1&pagewanted=1)</span>
Flying drones over…get more advanced.” 


<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">UAVs lower the threshold for war</span>
<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788606]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Singer</span></span>, Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>, Excerpt from ‘wired for war”, accessed on NPR, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=113996743</span>
James Der Derian…into more wars.


<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788607]]</span>
<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788608]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Singer</span></span>, Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>, Excerpt from ‘wired for war”, accessed on NPR, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=113996743</span>
But let's imagine…doesn't give a damn.


<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788609]]</span>
<span style="margin-top: .1pt;">[[#_Toc277788610]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Weber</span></span>, Guest Professor at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span> “Robotic Warfare, Human Rights & the Rhetorics of Ethical Machines” pcms_311_Weber_Robotic_Warfare.pdf </span>
We need to dismantle… democratic processes. 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Contention 3 is dehumanization 

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Drones have a 6% success rate </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Sikander Ahmed Shah no date</span></span> [WAR ON TERRORISM: SELF DEFENSE, OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM, AND THE LEGALITY OF U.S. DRONE ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN SIKANDER AHMED SHAH<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6.5pt;">.</span> No date. Page 126] 
U.S. drone attacks…than six per cent.‖337


Drones kill anyone who looks like a threat
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jane Mayer 2009</span></span> //[The New Yorker//, October 26, 2009, pp. 36-45. THE POLITICAL SCENE THE PREDATOR WAR What are the risks of the C.I.A.'s covert drone program? BY JANE MAYER]
Many lawyers… to be a rock star.")


Drones aren’t following legal justifications, killing human rights 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jane Mayer 2009</span></span> //[The New Yorker//, October 26, 2009, pp. 36-45. THE POLITICAL SCENE THE PREDATOR WAR What are the risks of the C.I.A.'s covert drone program? BY JANE MAYER] 
The drone program…become indiscriminate."


<span class="DebateUnderline">U.S. Drones dehumanize targets <span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jost Muller Neuhof 2010</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> [“U.S. Drones and Human</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Rights: Death from Above”</span>** **<span style="color: black;">By Jost Müller-Neuhof</span>** //<span style="color: black;">Translated By</span>// <span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: black;">Ron Argentati</span></span> **<span style="color: black;">11 October 2010</span>** Edited by Sam Carter http://watchingamerica.com/News/72078/u-s-drones-and-human-rights-death-from-above/]<span style="color: black;"> </span>
The American…humiliated and degraded.


<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dehumanization entrenches the cycle of violence, and justifies genocide
Maiese, Scholar </span></span>at CU-Boulder<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, 2003</span></span> (Maiese, Michelle. "Dehumanization." Beyond Intractability. Eds. Guy Burgess and Heidi Burgess. Conflict Research Consortium, University of Colorado, Boulder. Posted: July 2003 <[[http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/]]>.)</span></span>
While deindividuation…common goals.


<span class="Author-Date">This concept of agency outweighs all other impacts. Establishing a framework in which life is worth living is a prerequisite to ethical decision-making
Isaac 96</span> [Jeffrey Isaac, Professor of Political Science, Indiana University, Bloomington, American Political Science Review, March 1996 v90 n1 p61(13)]
Action, then…attraction to limit-situations.



Thus the plan, The United States federal government should remove all military drones from Afghanistan. 


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency  </span>

The United States is responsible for the Afghanistan drones attack in Pakistan
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jeremy Scahill 2009</span></span> [Tbe nation The Secret US War in Pakistan by JEREMY SCAHILL November 23, 2009 page 6, “who is behind the drones attack”] 
Since President…to strike in Pakistan



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; color: #4f81bd; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 24px;">**Military presence hasn't solved - just breeds animosity among Afghan civilians**</span>**</span>== 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cheragh ‘9</span>** (Independent Afghan newspaper "US and Pakistan: the real losers of war in Afghanistan", 6-24, L/N) 
Afghanistan has…withdrawal from their country. 


Drones are a dominant component of US military presence in Afghanistan
[[#_Toc265313306]][[#_Toc265313655]][[#_Toc265314353]] [Cesar Chelala, winner of an Overseas Press Club of America award for an article on human rights, CommonDreams.org, 6/10/10, date accessed: 6/22/10, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/06/10-5.] 
In a scathing…<span class="underline">significant controversy</span>.


Stopping drone attacks is key to solvency
<span class="cite">Siddiqui 10 [</span>Tayyab Siddiqui- former Pakistani Ambassador Pakistan’s drone dilemma <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/pakistan/04-drone-dilemma-qs-03]]</span> 7-18-10 d.a. 7-25-10]
The US must…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in Pakistani cities</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>