[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Deont AC

ought is moral obligation
V = M

Duty needs a moral intent, so state's interests matter. Herman:
"Nonmoral motives may... the agent's concern."
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;"> //<span style="color: #000000;">Herman, Barbara [Griffin Professor of Philosophy, UCLA Law]. “On the Value of Acting from the Motive of Duty,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 90, No. 3 (Jul., 1981), pp. 359-382, at 366. APB</span>//</span>

<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">Disregarding moral law for a state's own interest is a contradiction. Velleman:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">"Acting for reasons... disregard for persons."</span>

//<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 44. JMN</span>//

<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">C1 is nukes use people as a means to an end.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">A. conditional intent</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">state's are prepared to sacrifice innocents. Coady:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; orphans: 2; widows: 2;">"Since the subordinates... their moral import."</span>
//C.A.J. Coady, [Professor of Philosophy, University of Melbourne] “Deterrent Intentions Revisited,” “Ethics” 99:1 (Oct. 1998), 98-108, at 101-102. RK//

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">and loads of people would die. IPPN:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"A related study... of START negotiations."</span>
//“Nuclear War Casualties: Why Prevention is Still the Only Cure.” International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, <span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://ippnweducation.wordpress.com/casualties-of-nuclear-war/]]__</span>//


﻿B. nuke war is likely, designed to kill innocents.


Nukes kill lots of people. Toon et all:
"A relatively modest... than 25% globally."
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Owen B. Toon, [Chair of Dept. of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of Colorado] Alan Robock, [Professor of Atmospheric Science, Rutgers University] and Richard P. Turco. [Professor of Atmospheric Science at UCLA] “Environmental Consequences of Nuclear War.” Physics Today, 61, No. 12, 39. APB</span>//

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">And nuclear war is too likely. Helman:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"While much less... would find acceptable."</span>
//<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in;">Martin E. Hellman [Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, Stanford; co-inventor of public key cryptography] “The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon. Fork in the Roads: Choosing the Future for Engineers. ” THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI SPRING 2008, 20-21. JMN</span>//

<span style="color: #000000; margin-bottom: 0in;">C. the stability-instability paradox</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Confidence in the firebreak is bad. Krepon:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"The twining of... of its capabilities."</span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Michael Krepon [Founder, Stimson Center – Nonpartisan Global Security Think Tank], “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control in South Asia” (May 2003), 18-19. JMN</span>//

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Indo-Pak conflict is an empirical example. Krepon 2:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"The Government of India... dialogue is absent."</span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">(same cite, APB)</span>//

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Leitenburg is the impact: about 41 million people have died from the 50s to the present.</span>
//Dr. Milton Leitenberg [Professor of Security Studies, University of Maryland] “Deaths in Wars and Conflicts in the 20th Century” (August 2006) Cornell University Peace Studies Program, 3rd ed, 82.//

C2 is terrorism.

Russia's nukes are unsafe. Allison 1:
"U.S. experts have... about them too."
//Graham Allison [Professor of Political Science, Harvard. Special Advisor to the SecDef, 1985-87. Leading expert on nuke terror] “Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe.” Henry Holt and Company. New York, New York. 2005, p 73. APB//


North Korea will sell nukes to terrorists. Allison 2:
"A nuclear-armed North... to willing buyers."
//(same cite, pp 80-81)//

we can solve for nuke terror by getting rid of nukes. Wittner:
"Then, of course... no nuclear terrorism."
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Lawrence Wittner [Professor of History, SUNY Albany] “Nuclear Terrorism: How It Can Be Prevented” Huffington Post, January 11, 2010 <span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-terrorism-how-it_b_418720.html]]__</span> </span>//





==Negative== 
Realism NC

Self-Defense NC


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Blocks**</span>== 
A2 Deterrence
Developing states won't deter. Karl:
"disputing this assessment... and unauthorized seizure."

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">//<span style="font-weight: normal;">David J. Karl [President, Asia Strategy Initiative, and intl relations, U SoCal] “Proliferation Pessimism and Emerging Nuclear Powers.” Source: International Security, Vol. 21, No. 3 (Winter, 1996-1997), p 104. APB</span>//</span>



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]