<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
=Affirmative= 

==1ac- Glenbrooks== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all of its forces conducting counternarcotics operations in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.**
**Inherency** </span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Status quo counternarcotics policy is interdiction </span>**
<span style="margin-bottom: 28pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Common Sense 11-13 (November 13, 2010, Common SensePentagon Adds Afghan Drug Traffickers to Hitlist Despite International Concerns Over Legality, [[http://www.csdp.org/news/news/afghanistan.htm]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Last year … the government." </span></span>
**Obama's interdiction policies have increased opium production**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Tse 10 (Hillson Tse, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC, A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations Spring 2010, A worldwide journal of politics, Pg. 19-24) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
Since the collapse …of Afghan farmers 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Put away your perception DAs— Obama’s 2014 timetable won’t affect counternarcotics, but it’s enough to trigger your links**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dolan 11-10 (Eric W. Dolan, Wednesday, November 10th, 2010, White House sets new Afghan deadline for 2014, http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2010/11/white-house-push-afghan-deadline-2014/) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The new policy …." an official told AFP. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Advantage 1 is Afghani Instability. Interdiction is uniquely destabilizing- two internal links**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
1. Vertical integration- it undercuts the profits of small farmers, causing them to go to the Taliban for loans and protection
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Felbab-Brown</span></span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10</span></span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinvigorated by a ….. and drug competition. </span></span></span>



2<span style="font-weight: normal;">. </span>Government corruption – officials get leverage for bribes
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jonathan <span class="Author-Date">Goodhand</span> Senior Lecturer in the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London <span class="Author-Date">08</span> ( “ Corrupting or Consolidating the Peace? The Drugs Economy and Post-conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Peacebuilding in Afghanistan” June 23 [[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/903095__793322435.pdf]] 7/22/10) </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">It has </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…. with drug cartels’.77 </span> </span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">This devastates counterinsurgency efforts and collapses the weak Karzai government</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Perhaps nowhere in ……</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> of narcotics suppression. </span></span>

**Instability in Afghanistan destabilizes all of Central Asia**
Reuters 9 (Ivan Kalburov 
November 25, 2009, Reuters, [[http://www.moveoneinc.com/blog/asia/instability-may-spread-from-afghanistan-to-central-asia/]]) 

Afghanistan’s Taliban may ….. for coalition forces.’ 


Instability**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> in central Asia escalates to nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ahrari 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">( Eshan-, professor of national security and strategy @ Armed Forces Staff College, 1 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, August, online, p. 41 www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112) ET </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">South and Central Asia ….</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> a gain for all concerned.
</span>**Advantage 2: Terrorism**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The opium economy sustains and fuels terrorism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tse 10 (Hillson Tse, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC, A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations Spring 2010, A worldwide journal of politics, Pg. 19-24) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There are two … and local police2. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="TagsChar">Al Qaeda will takeover a dozen countries and transform them into nuclear launch sites for an attack on the US. US will be forced to multiple preemptive wars </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: -13.5pt; tab-stops: -9.0pt;">Marvin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cetron</span></span>, President of Forecasting International, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">07</span></span> (U.S. News and World Report has identified Dr. Marvin Cetron as one of the nation's foremost futurists. Cetron spent 20 years in research and development planning and forecasting with the U.S. Navy), “Defeating Terrorism: Is It Possible? Is It Probable?” The Futurist May-June 2007, pg. 23-25] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -9pt; margin-right: -0.15in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorists will gain …….grim to contemplate. </span> </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 3 is production shift</span>** </span>
Expanded interdiction causes vertical integration and consolidation of trafficking groups
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, Research Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, August, 20<span class="Author-Date">07</span>, <span class="MsoHyperlink">http://www3.brookings.edu/fp/research/felbab-brown200708.pdf</span> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Although </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">interdiction</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> does ……</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> not outright tribal violence</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. </span></span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Drug production is inevitable- interdiction would just shift it elsewhere</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jonathan P. <span class="Author-Date">Caulkin et al.</span>, prof. of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon , co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, author of several books on narcotics, 6/20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> [Mark A.R. Kleiman, prof of Public Policy at UCLA School of Public Affairs and was professors at several other universities prior; Jonathan D. Kulick, Research director at Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, policy analyst at RAND, and researcher at IBM; “Drug Production and trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan” from NYU’s Center on International Cooperation, pdf pg. 7] </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 2.7pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">It does not …..drug production. </span></span>


Interdiction production to Pakistan – the worst scenario possible
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign </span>Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">By far the ……</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> minimal employment opportunities. </span></span>



<span style="display: block; margin-left: -13.5pt; text-align: justify;">**We’ll isolate three impact scenarios**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: -13.5pt; text-align: justify;">**1. Civil war that pulls in the Pashtuns and causes regional instability and terrorism**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Stephen J. <span class="Author-Date">Morgan</span>, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, 9/23/<span class="Author-Date">07 </span>“Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -4.5pt; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: 4.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Although the Pashtuns …..</span> the US, told IANS. </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**3. Shifts in production to Central Asia upsets US oil interests and causes oil shocks**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]] </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Finally, a shift ….. already minimal cooperation. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
==Oil Prices Will Lead to Competition Between China and US Causing Nuke War== 
=== === 
===<span class="citesChar0">Meacher 2008</span> (Michael, Guardian.co.uk staff writer, “The era of oil wars”, Guardian.co.uk, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/jun/29/oil.oilandgascompanies, June 29, 2008)=== 

Gordon Brown meeting …….<span class="underlinedChar">a<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nd the Soviet Union". </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Solvency**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cutting back on counter-narcotics enforcement solves corruption. </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Caulkins, Kleiman, and Kulick, June 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: </span>[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/|__http://www.cic.nyu.edu/__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The value to traffickers ….. law enforcement agencies.43 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Absent an end to interdiction, every other NATO policy in Afghanistan will fail </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Felbab-Brown</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Foreign Policy Fellow at Brookings, __‘7__ </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Vanda, Foreign Policy Fellow at the Brookings Institute, adjunct professor of security studies at Georgetown, trilingual (French, Czech, and English), February 20, 2007, “Afghanistan’s Opium Wars,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2007/0220afghanistan_felbab-brown.aspx]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-right: 22.5pt;">Participating in interdiction …. units, not NATO. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">A US withdrawal would stop Afghan interdiction- they have no resources or funding </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">USDS</span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, United States Department of State, office of Inspector General, Middle East Regional Office, December 20<span class="Author-Date">09</span>, “Status of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Counternarcotics Programs in Afghanistan ”, Performance Audit, [[http://oig.state.gov/documents/organization/134183.pdf]] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many individuals involved ….. sustainable at current levels.</span></span></span>

**Karzai’s backlash against last month’s US-Russian raid proves Afghanistan wouldn’t pursue its own raids**
King 10 (Laura King, Los Angeles Times, Karzai denounces drug raid in Afghanistan, October 31, 2010, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2010/oct/31/world/la-fg-afghanistan-karzai-20101031]]) 

Reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan ….. and report back to him.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Licensing would boost the Taliban, kill Afghan stability, and cause over-reliance on opium which kills the Afghan economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">U.S. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">State Department</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, February 20, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, online: http://www.state.gov/p/inl/rls/rpt/80734.htm, accessed October 15, 2007 </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Legalization is ultimately …. on one commodity. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">-</span>**Alternate livelihood programs fail- hundreds of millions have already been invested**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">L</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">os </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ngeles </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Times</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, November 12, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2006 </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-right: 0.2in;">The country's gross …... said in early September. </span>

<span style="margin-right: 22.5pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is no medical morphine shortage, and Afghan poppies aren’t the right kind of opium</span>** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steve </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rolles</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Information Officer for The Transform Drug Policy Foundation, May 18, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, online: http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=5684, accessed October 15, 2007 </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Firstly, the medical opium ….. seriously be entertained. </span></span>


==2AC Fem K== 

**Perm do both – Feminist protest must be done through pre-existing political structures in order to challenge masculinity**
<span style="tab-stops: 531.0pt;">Steans 06 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Jill, Professor of Gender in international relations, Ph.D, “Gender and international relations: issues, debates and future directions,” p. 40-41, MR) </span></span>

Thus <span class="Underline">when …</span>tus of women as a group.
**Removal of troops decreases gender oppression**
**Murray** 20**03**, JD at Columbia, (Jennifer, 34 Columbia Human Rights Law Review 475, Spring, lexis) 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Although people...</span>__n trafficking for sexual exploitation__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>n86 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This failure to engage the political process turns the affirmative into spectators who are powerless to produce real change. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rorty 98</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> – professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, Pg. 7-9) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Such people fin....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">__picture.__ "2 </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Radical rejections of state power fail- feminist agendas can only succeed if they harness the power of the state </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">MANSBRIDGE 3 (JANE MANSBRIDGE </span>Anti-statism and Difference Feminism in International Social Movements<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> International Feminist Journal of Politics, 5:3 November 2003, 355–360) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Regarding women, ...</span>**__struggle against that violence as well as other non-state evils__**.

==**2AC Consult Nato**== 



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Permutation – do both – Non-binding consultation can solve the net benefit and our turns</span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Daily Oklahoman</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> - 6-12-<span class="cite">2001</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">WITH his … change."</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NATO and the US are divided on Afghani policy </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D’Souza 2009</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D’Souza, Shanthie Mariet, Research Fellow at the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isas.nus.edu.sg/|Institute of South Asian Studies (ISAS)]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, [//NATO in Afghanistan: Fault lines in the translatlantic alliance?// Institude for Defense Studies and Analyses, April 2, 2009. </span><span style="color: #0000cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.idsa.in/system/files/ShanthieMDSouza020409.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.]</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even as ...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> who are not.”</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7.5pt;">10</span>


<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NATO will say NO-</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Nathan 9 (James A.(2009) 'Poppy Blues: The Collapse of Poppy Eradication and the Road Ahead in Afghanistan', Defense & Security Analysis, 25: 4, 331 — 353</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Reality and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> ......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">from Pakistani traders</span>

==2ac Licensing== 



<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The CP involves warlords in licensing, and they’ll never let the government encroach on their power</span>**</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Subodh </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Atal</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, an independent foreign affairs analyst, September 24, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, “At a Crossroads in Afghanistan: Should the United States Be Engaged in Nation Building?,” CATO Foreign Policy Briefing #81, online: http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb81.pdf, accessed October 21, 2007</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Provincial ....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">n their power.</span></span>





<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> They don’t involve warlords, which means they’ll undermine licensing schemes from outside</span>**</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peter </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">van Ham</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, director of the global governance research program at the Clingendael Institute in The Hague and a professor at the College of Europe in Bruges, Belgium, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jorrit </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kamminga</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, head of policy research for The Senlis Council in Kabul, Winter 2006/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, The Washington Quarterly, p. 76</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Former ...</span>__



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> licensing scheme.</span>



<span class="cite">. Licensing would help the Taliban, delegitimize the government, and increase ethnic tensions </span>
<span class="cite">Brown 7 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab, //Brookings Institute on Foreign Policy//, NO 1, August 7) ET</span>
<span class="underline">Implementing a licensing scheme</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="underline"> exacerbating tribal and ethnic tensions.</span>

<span class="cite">4. Licensing of opium would create more problems- illicit drug trade and ethnic conflict </span>
<span class="cite">Brown 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Vanda Felbab, //Brookings Institute on Foreign Policy//, NO 1, pg 1 August 7) ET </span>
<span class="underline">The licensing of opium ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">implemented on a country-wide scale.</span>

<span class="cite">5. Opium licensing fails -it does not provide enough income, causing farmers to revert back to illicit trade- India proves </span>
<span class="cite">Chouvy 6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">( Pierre, Feb 6, PHD- Geography @ Sorbonne U, //Asia Times//) ET </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, it is important to...</span>no reliable estimate of such diversion.

=Negative= 

aff cites-aleksandra4@gmail.com
neg cites- susie.ccurran@gmail.com
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>