[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Berkeley== 
**History tells us that the US never actually withdraws – the way we have been engaging in the debate about the military is banal**
**Engelhardt ’10** (Tom, Fellow of The Nation Institute, Teaching Fellow at the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, “Yes, We Could… Get Out!: Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq”, TomDispatch, April 26, [[http://www.zcommunications.org/yes-we-could-get-out-by-tom-engelhardt]], Accessed 7/1/10 GAL)

Of course, there's a small problem here. ...spend "winning hearts and minds."


**The glorification and failure to confront the militarism in debate leads to isms of domination which creates, sanctions, and maintains oppression.**
**Warren and Cady 94** (Karen, professor in the Philosophy Department at Macalester College and Duane, Professor of Philosophy Hamline University, //Hypatia// vol. 9, no. 2, Spring)

What constitutes such systems...sustain war and conflict resolution strategies. 


**The 1AC is a critical evaluation of the way that we have been interpreting the military topic this year. We have been all together too obsessed with the large impacts that specific wars and flashpoints allegedly present.. We must investigate omnipresence of the military in debate in order to critically evaluate the social effects of military in our sphere of influence, the debate round.**
**Cuomo 96** (Chris, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45, jstor 

Theory that does not investigate... inevitability of war and militarism. 


===Plan Text=== 
**Thus Kelly and I affirm that military presence should be reduced everywhere**


**The affirmative frames the debate round as a de-militarized knowledge zone. Removing discussions supporting military presence allows us to take a critical look at the obsession with flashpoints. This allows us to better understand ourselves as individuals. A de-militarized knowledge zone is the only way to examine the social effects of militarism . The approach taken in the 1AC is the best way to solve.**
**Armitage 5** [John, Cambridge University, “Beyond Hypermodern Militarized Knowledge Factories”, 2005, The Review of Education, Pedagogy, and Cultural Studies, Academic complete]

Resisting hypermodern militarized knowledge factories... socially directed research is conducted.


**Debate shapes us as individuals, and we in turn shape the world around us, it is important to analyze and discuss the way we discuss things and what we discuss in debate as a community. The focus on the race to the big impact creates a system that distances us from emotional and moral response to argumentation. In the end a refusal to critically analyze what we do in debate gives up the only real power we have.**
**Bjork 93** (Rebecca, former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)

While reflecting on my experiences ...and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have. 


**And this debate round here and now is important, role playing governmental actions is merely a ploy by dominant power interests to remain unquestioned, by voting affirmative and refusing military presence in the debate round you embrace a structure that makes a change in debate here and now.**
**Kappeler 95** (Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.10-11)

Yet our insight that indeed we are not responsible... and the values of war and violence. 


**Their framework encourages a stale model of debate that leads to radicalism in politics and prevents problem solving**
**Schweitzer, 6** (Nick, Software Consultant and Geek Pundit, Jan 25, [[http://www.nickschweitzer.net/2006/01/25/EverythingCausesNuclearWar.aspx]])

I have another geeky confession to make. .... Not everything leads to nuclear war damnit!

==2AC Framework== 
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;"> </span>
This turns all of their education claims – it makes debate absurd
Herbeck and Katsulas 92
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate; Dale Herbeck Professor and Chair Department of Communication John Katsulas is the director of Fulton Debate Society; 1992-10-00)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Not surprisingly<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, low probability/high impact arguments ... borders on the absurd.</span></span>
If it’s not absurd we’ll control the terminal uniqueness
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beres, 1994</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Louis Rene, Professor of International Law in the Department of Political Science at Purdue University, Spring,, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Lexis)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">This, then, is an altogether different kind ... badge of modern humankind</span>

Rejecting the notion of federal action is the first step to realizing the violence is within ourselves
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kappeler 95</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.19)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political action</span>__, in this view,...__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">t we do it anyway, for a start?</span>__





=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]