Jan Feb
__//**SHACKLES AC:**//__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government ought to ban indiscriminate shackling policies in all federal, state, and local juvenile justice systems for juveniles who commit violent felonies. Procedures for physical restraint will be brought in line with the adult systems. I reserve the right to clarify implementation.</span>

<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;">Anita Nabha [J.D. Candidate, Brooklyn Law School, 2009; M.S., Columbia
University School of Social Work, 2005; B.A., Amherst College, 2001]
“Why Children Should Not be Shackled” Brooklyn Law Review. 2008.
Lexis-Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Juvenile Law Center. “Lessons from Luzerne County: Promoting Fairness,
Transparency and Accountability Recommendations to the Interbranch
Commission on Juvenile Justice” 2010.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Bernard P. Perlmutter [Assistant Professor of Clinical Legal Education
University of Miami School of Law; Director of the Children & Youth
Law Clinic.] “SYMPOSIUM ISSUE: IN RE GAULT: ARTICLE: "UNCHAIN THE
CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING” Barry Law
Review Fall, 2007. Lexis Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">Jennifer M. Segadelli [2010 Juris Doctorate candidate at Seattle</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University School of Law.] “ACCESS TO JUSTICE: Minding the Gap:
Extending Adult Jury Trial Rights to Adolescents While Maintaining a
Childhood Commitment to Rehabilitation” Seattle Journal for Social
Justice. Spring/Summer. 2010</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Jeremy Packer, , Assistant Professor of Communications at Penn
State, Foucault, Cultural Studies, and Governmentality 2003</span><span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;"> p. 151-153]</span>

Michael Clifford [professor of philosophy at the
Mississippi State University. He holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from
Vanderbilt University.] "Political Genealogy After Foucault." Routledge
Publications, 2001. pg. 21 DC)

Foucault The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An
Introduction, p. 135-140]

Kulynych, Jessica J. [Assistant Professor of Political Science at Winthrop
University,] "Performing Politics: Foucault,
Habermas, and Postmodern Participation,” Polity (30.2), 1997 p, 37]


William Spanos [Professor of English at Binghamton University], The
End of Education: Towards Posthumanism, 1993, p. 196.

Henry A. Giroux “War Talk, the Death of the Social, and
Disappearing Children: A Lesson for Obama” Truthout. Tuesday, December
16, 2008