[[toc]]
For cites, email williamdossett12@email.usn.org
=Affirmative= 



<span style="color: #aaaaaa;">
</span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: Arial; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Wake Aff</span>**</span>== 


Text: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw special operations forces (SOF) from Afghanistan.

Advantages:
-Stability: Indo-Pak war (with Fai card), Nuke terrorism, 
-HR Cred: Detention scenario and deniability scenario (democracy impact)

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention One is Inherency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">U.S. Special Forces are expanding in Afghanistan – teams have more than doubled under Obama </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**LA Times 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Julian E. Barnes, “U.S. doubles anti-Taliban special forces,” April 15 2010, http://articles.latimes.com/2010/apr/15/world/la-fg-secret-surge15-2010apr15) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Reporting from Washington — … in mid-2011. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention Two is The Civilian </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The U.S. is losing the war – failure to win the “human terrain” is dooming coalition efforts and strengthening the Taliban. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Reuters 8/30**/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Sayed Salahuddin and Paul Tait, West faces a losing battle for Afghan "human terrain", August 30 2010, Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSSGE67T0I3) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">As the conflict…"the human terrain". </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario 1 is civilian casualties: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Civilian casualties are increasing – up 31% in the first half of this year </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Al Jazeera 8/10**/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Afghan civilian toll up by a third, Al Jazeera [Arabic news source], Aug 10 2010, http://english.aljazeera.net/news/asia/2010/08/201081075049886818.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The number of … mid-year report. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Special Ops result in the 80% of civilian casualties – in the ground and the air, they require support that results in mass violence </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">This historical overview…high civilian casualties. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Vital internal link to civilian support – deaths result in civilians turning against international forces </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Karzai’s stridency may…we’ve been using.30 </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario two is covert tactics: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Special forces pursue domestic night raids in Afghan communities, causing civilian resentment </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Economist 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(“Thinking the worst; Night raids on militants in Afghanistan,” The Economist, May 22 2010, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Even when no … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">and do nothing." </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This is a veritable nightmare – Special Forces arrest people without warrant and cause civilian casualties which alienate populations and mass popular resentment that //outweighs resentment towards the Taliban// </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dorronsoro 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Giles [visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey], “The Taliban's Winning Strategy in Afghanistan,” Carnegie Report, Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, June 2009, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/taliban_winning_strategy.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Civilian casualties from… over the population. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The U.S. is making more enemies than friends – covert tactics result in collateral damage that undermines any goodwill created by other coalition forces </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Chatterjee 8/20**/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Pratap [Chatterjee is a freelance journalist, TomDispatch regular, and senior editor at CorpWatch who has worked extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia, including nine trips to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. He has written two books about the war on terror: Iraq, Inc. (Seven Stories Press, 2004) and Halliburton's Army (Nation Books, 2009)], “Killing the Wrong People in Afghanistan,” 2010, CBS News, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/opinion/main6790028.shtml) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Whatever terminology you … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">of the night. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Winning hearts and minds is critical to win the war – tactical success can’t win it** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Benjamin 6** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Daniel [Senior Fellow International Security Program Center for Strategic and International Studies], Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: The Changing Face of Terror – A Post 9-11 Assessment, June 13 2006, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/congress/ts060613benjamin.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Unfortunately, that story… and without delay. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Winning the war is critical to avert nuclear terrorism – failure allows Afghanistan and Pakistan to become an international hotbed for terrorists </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cordesman 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Anthony [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS], “Realism in Afghanistan: Rethinking an Uncertain Case for the War,” Center for Strategic and Int’l Studies, June 16 2010, http://csis.org/publication/realism-afghanistan-rethinking-uncertain-case-war) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The key reasons … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Indo-Pakistani conflict. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Indo-Pak conflict is most likely scenario for nuclear war, leading to extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fai 1 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Ghulam: Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council [“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” Washington Times, July 8, 2001]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The most dangerous … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">/Cut-off Convention. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Crisis escalates, causing global collapse of the international security order -- massive retaliation </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Perkovich 2** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(George [vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace], India and Pakistan on the Brink, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, MAY 29, 2002, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=1023) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The American stakes … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">conditions for war. </span>


<span style="background: white; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aside from the immediate nuclear impact, war causes global starvation, disease outbreak, and resource wars that threaten planetary survival </span>**</span>
<span style="background: white; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Hindustan Times 7 </span>**</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Citing Ira Helfand, Medical Expert on Fallout and Cofounder of </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Apart from Causing Devastation, </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">an Indo-Pak Nuclear War Could Cause Starvation Worldwide,” October </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">5th, http://www.medindia.net/news/Apart-from-Causing-Devastation-an-Indo-Pak-Nuclear-War-Could-Cause-Starvation-Worldwide-27423-1.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">A nuclear war … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">consequences," he added. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The threat is particularly acute in Pakistan – Afghan and Pakistan instability allows Taliban insurgents to seize nuclear weapons, resulting in nuclear strikes against western allies** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nagl 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(John [retired officer in the United States Army who is regarded as an influential expert in counterinsurgency], “A Better War in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/4.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The primary objective… is fairly low.11 </span>




<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention Three is Accountability </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario 1 is Illegitimate Detention </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Improvements in human rights leadership have been made under Obama, but changes remain incomplete – to regain human rights credibility, the U.S. must act on the principles it has articulated </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Roth 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Kenneth [attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993], Empty Promises?, New York: Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Iss. 2; pg. 10, 7 pgs, proquest) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">From a human… throughout the world. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Special Forces are responsible for detention efforts in Afghanistan – the covert nature of their actions means they avoid public scrutiny, allowing detention policies that infringe upon human rights to continue unchecked </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gopal 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Anand [has reported in Afghanistan for the Christian Science Monitor and the Wall Street Journal. His dispatches can be read at anandgopal.com. He is currently working on a book about the Afghan war], “Obama's Secret Prisons: Night Raids, Hidden Detention Centers, the "Black Jail," and the Dogs of War in Afghanistan,” January 28, 2010, Huffington Post, printed in the The Nation Magazine, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/anand-gopal/obamas-secret-prisons-nig_b_440401.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The American troops… </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> small field prisons. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Detention without trial in Afghanistan uniquely perpetuates the spirit of Guantanamo – despite Obama’s shift in policy, abuses remain rife there </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Roth 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Kenneth [attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993], Empty Promises?, New York: Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Iss. 2; pg. 10, 7 pgs, proquest) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Obama has also … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">has been shut. </span>




<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abuses in detention diminish human rights credibility to nothing – the way the U.S. wages the War on Terror undermines international credibility, destroying the internal human rights framework </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sadat 6 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Leila Nadya [Henry H. Oberschelp Professor of Law, Washington University in St. Louis], SYMPOSIUM: "TORTURE AND THE WAR ON TERROR": GHOST PRISONERS AND BLACK SITES: EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW, 37 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 309, 2006, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Finally, the volatile… </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> terrorist at all. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human rights loss causes ethnic conflicts, authoritarian regimes which kills their own citizens, environmental destruction, and catastrophic refugee flows </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Shattuck 94**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> (JOHN SHATTUCK, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS, 4/19/94 (Federal News Service, l/n) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">I would like … __<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">our foreign policy-making.</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The human rights framework must be upheld – violation guarantees continued insecurity </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Copelon 99** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Rhonda Copelon, law at City University of New York, 1999 (3 N.Y. City L. Rev. 59)) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">The indivisible human… and foreign policy. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reorientation towards human rights //increases// national security – rejecting the idea that national security and human rights are at odds is critical to decrease international aggression </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Burke-White 4 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(William [Lecturer in Public and International Affairs and Senior Special Assistant to the Dean, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University; Ph.D., Cambridge (expected 2004); J.D., Harvard (2002); M.Phil., Cambridge (1999); A.B., Harvard (1998)], U.S. FOREIGN POLICY AND HUMAN RIGHTS: ARTICLE: Human Rights and National Security: The Strategic Correlation, 17 Harv. Hum. Rts. J. 249, Spring 2004, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Soon after the … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">States more secure. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No risk of a turn – detention policies only serve to //weaken// efforts to stop terrorism by alienating moderate Muslims. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sadat 6 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Leila Nadya [Henry H. Oberschelp Professor of Law, Washington University in St. Louis], SYMPOSIUM: "TORTURE AND THE WAR ON TERROR": GHOST PRISONERS AND BLACK SITES: EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW, 37 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 309, 2006, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Second, U.S. detention … "War on Terror." n167 </span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario 2: deniability </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SOF are employed in covert operations </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Best and Feickert 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Richard A. Best Jr. [Specialist in National Defense], Andrew Feickert [Specialist in Military Ground Forces], Special Operations Forces (SOF) and CIA Paramilitary Operations: Issues for Congress, August 3 2009, Congressional Research Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RS22017.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">SOF have reportedly … exist within USSOCOM.5 </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Covert operations are fundamentally undemocratic – result in a policy of deniability that erodes Washington’s credibility in the international sphere </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kibbe 4 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Jennifer [Olin Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution], The Rise of the Shadow Warriors, March/April 2004, Foreign Affairs, proquest) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Covert operations are … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">of national borders. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Access to information is critical to democracy – its denial results in an unknowledgeable citizenry and citizens rights to assess the decisions of their leaders, providing a veil of secrecy behind which corruption flourishes </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Neuman 2 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is committed to advancing human rights], 2002, http://www.cartercenter.org/documents/1272.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Knowledge is power, … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">as their representatives. </span>








<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Corruption results in widespread social instability that undermines citizen confidence in democratic institutions </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Neuman 2 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> (Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">in democratic institu- tions. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And U.S. democracy is key to global democracy – only by //living up to its own ideals// will democracy flourish abroad. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nye 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Joseph S. [former US Assistant Secretary of Defense, is a professor at Harvard University and author of Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics], Democracy Promotion Reconsidered, 5/11/09, http://www.project syndicate.org/commentary/nye70/English) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Equally important** to … on the hill.” </span>
== == 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Democracy key to global nuclear peace. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Muravchik 1** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Josh, Resident Scholar – AEI, “Democracy and Nuclear Peace”, July, http://www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The greatest impetus … threatening or outrageous. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Thus the plan: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw Special Operations Forces (SOF) from Afghanistan. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention 4 is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Now is key – operations are at their fastest tempo and still increasing – four times the pace of SOF missions during Iraq </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Bloomberg 9/3**/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Petraeus Says Afghan Raids on Rebels Exceed Iraq Pace, 2010, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-03/petraeus-says-afghan-special-missions-are-running-at-four-times-iraq-pace.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">U.S. Army General … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">weeks, he said. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SOCOM can do the plan – has executive control to plan and direct Special Operations Forces </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Olson 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Eric T. [eighth and current Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM)], U.S. Special Operations: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Context and Capabilities in Irregular Warfare, //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/8.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The United … of U.S. defense policy. </span>





----
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px; page-break-after: avoid;">Barkley Forum Aff</span>== 


<span style="margin-right: -0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Contention One is Inherency</span>__<span style="color: black;">: </span>**</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Despite clear negative effects, US is stepping up SOF raids in 2011 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Afghan Analyst Network, 1/10/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“Because the Night Belongs to Raiders: Special ops in Nangrahar,” by Fabrizio Foschini, AAN Analyst in Kabul. AAN is a non-profit, independent policy research organization aiming to increase understanding of the Afghan conflict. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://aan-afghanistan.com/index.asp?id=1424]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The first days of 2011 ... Foschini realised during a recent visit to Nangrahar. </span>


<span style="margin-right: -0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Contention Two is the Civilian</span>__<span style="color: black;">: </span>**</span>


<span style="margin-right: 0.9pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">We are losing hard in Afghanistan – claims to the contrary are administration lies and spin </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-right: .9pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Cohen 12/29/10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> [Michael, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in IR from American University and a master’s from Columbia, “The White House’s Growing ‘Credibility Gap’ on Afghanistan,”] </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> A couple of months ago I wrote an article </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> says about the war in Afghanistan seriously.</span></span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Civilian casualties increasing - up 20% since 09 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington Post, 23/12/10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“Number of civilian casualties in Afghan war rises 20%, U.N. report shows,” By </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://projects.washingtonpost.com/staff/articles/ernesto+londono/|Ernesto Londono]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Washington Post Foreign Service, Thursday, December 23, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/23/AR2010122303521.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">KABUL - The number of civilians ... a U.N. report issued this week. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Special Ops result in the 80% of civilian casualties – in the ground and air, they require support that results in mass violence </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This historical overview suggests ... results in high civilian casualties. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Special Forces pursue domestic night raids in Afghan communities, causing civilian resentment </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Economist 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“Thinking the worst; Night raids on militants in Afghanistan,” The Economist, May 22 2010, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Even when no one is killed, ... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">die that sit by and do nothing."</span>




**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And – Night Raids are the biggest reason the populace turns against the ISAF – high civilian death rates are a self-feeding machine </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Afghan Analyst Network, 1/10/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“Because the Night Belongs to Raiders: Special ops in Nangrahar,” by Fabrizio Foschini, AAN Analyst in Kabul. AAN is a non-profit, independent policy research organization aiming to increase understanding of the Afghan conflict. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://aan-afghanistan.com/index.asp?id=1424]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Night raids are among the most ... innocents are killed as a result of night raids? </span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - This is a veritable nightmare – Special Forces’ actions alienate populations and cause popular resentment that //outweighs resentment towards the Taliban// </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dorronsoro 9 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Giles [visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey], “The Taliban's Winning Strategy in Afghanistan,” Carnegie Report, Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, June 2009, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/taliban_winning_strategy.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Civilian casualties from IC... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> winning over the population.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - The U.S. is making more enemies than friends – covert tactics undermine any goodwill created by other coalition forces </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chatterjee 8/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">/10 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Pratap [Chatterjee is a freelance journalist, TomDispatch regular, and senior editor at CorpWatch who has worked extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia, including nine trips to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. He has written two books about the war on terror: Iraq, Inc. (Seven Stories Press, 2004) and Halliburton's Army (Nation Books, 2009)], “Killing the Wrong People in Afghanistan,” 2010, CBS News, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/opinion/main6790028.shtml) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whatever terminology you choose, ... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">in the middle of the night.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And -</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Winning hearts and minds is critical to win the war – tactical success can’t win it** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Benjamin 6</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Daniel [Senior Fellow International Security Program Center for Strategic and International Studies], Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: The Changing Face of Terror – A Post 9-11 Assessment, June 13 2006, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/congress/ts060613benjamin.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unfortunately, that story is ... go next and without delay. </span>




**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And – a failure in Afghanistan leads to a radical takeover in Pakistan – sparks worldwide terrorism and Indo-Pakistan war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“Mobilizing NATO for Afghanistan and Pakistan: An Assessment of the Extremist Threat,” Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress, Project Senior Advisor General John Craddock, U.S. Army (Ret.), Co-Directors David M. Abshire and W. Bruce Weinrod, January 2010, http://thepresidency.org/publications/post-911-studies/mobilizing-nato-for-afghanistan-and-pakistan-an-assessment-of-the-extremist-threat) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If the NATO effort in Afghanistan ... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">during the Afghan civil war in the 1990s.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Indo-Pak conflict is most likely scenario for nuclear war, leading to extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fai 1 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ghulam: Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council [“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” Washington Times, July 8, 2001]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The most dangerous place ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Crisis escalates, causing global collapse of the international security order -- massive retaliation </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perkovich 2</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(George [vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace], India and Pakistan on the Brink, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, MAY 29, 2002, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=1023) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The American stakes in ... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">to create the conditions for war.</span>


<span style="background: white;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - </span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Aside from the immediate nuclear impact, war causes global starvation, disease outbreak, and resource wars that threaten planetary survival </span>**</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Hindustan Times 7 </span>**</span>
<span style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Citing Ira Helfand, Medical Expert on Fallout and Cofounder of </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Apart from Causing Devastation, an Indo-Pak Nuclear War Could Cause Starvation Worldwide,” October 5th, http://www.medindia.net/news/Apart-from-Causing-Devastation-an-Indo-Pak-Nuclear-War-Could-Cause-Starvation-Worldwide-27423-1.htm)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A nuclear war between India and Pakistan ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> have global consequences," he added.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - The threat is particularly acute in Pakistan – Afghan and Pakistan instability allows Taliban insurgents to seize nuclear weapons, resulting in nuclear strikes against western allies </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nagl 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(John [retired officer in the United States Army who is regarded as an influential expert in counterinsurgency], “A Better War in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/4.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The primary objective of American efforts ... U.S. visibility into events there is fairly low.11 </span>



<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - Nuclear Terrorism escalates globally to extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Morgan, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> [Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693] </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0in;">Years later, in 1982, at the height of the Cold War, .... unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter. </span>



<span style="margin-right: -0.5in;">[need to insert another advantage as soon as I get a digital copy of it - impacts are US-Russia relations, US-Russian war and Russia-China alliance]</span>




**<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Thus the plan: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw Special Operations Forces (SOF) from Afghanistan. </span>**

<span style="margin-right: -0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Contention Five is Solvency</span>__<span style="color: black;">: </span>**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Now is key – Pakistan will collapse absent immediate action, dragging Afghanistan down with it – Non-uniques their offense </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gould, 1/15/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“A disintegrating Pakistan: Choices for US and India,” by Harold Gould, Visiting Scholar in the Center for South Asian Studies, University of Virginia, Afghanistan News.Net, Saturday 15th January, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afghanistannews.net/story/732089/ht/A-disintegrating-Pakistan-Choices-for-US-and-India]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As Pakistan sinks steadily ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> it is indeed the end of the affair.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And - SOCOM can do the plan – has executive control to plan and direct Special Operations Forces </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Olson 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Eric T. [eighth and current Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM)], U.S. Special Operations: </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Context and Capabilities in Irregular Warfare, //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/8.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States Special Operations Command .... and other forces in support of U.S. defense policy.</span>





=Negative= 

For Negative stuff, see University School LZ

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]