[[toc]]
<span style="cursor: pointer; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]</span>
==Generic CPs== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Consult NATO**</span>=== 

====1NC==== 
**Observation One: Text**
**The United States federal government will enter into binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether <plan>.The United States Federal Government will adopt the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s recommendations. We reserve the right to clarify.**

**Observation Two: The Counterplan Is Legitimate**

**A. It’s competitive – you can’t guarantee passage of plan and consult simultaneously**
**B. It is not topical – it violates “resolved.” Even if proven topical, competition checks abuse.**

**Observation Three: The Net Benefit**
**Consultation with NATO is key to avoid total collapse of the alliance and conflict with Europe**
**Philip H** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gordon</span>**, senior fellow in foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, 7/1/**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>**, “Letter to Europe”, The Brookings Institution, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2004/07europe_gordon.aspx]]</span>,** **umn-rks**

**<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">DEAR FRIENDS. How did it come to this… …goal of strategic partnership with the US</span></span>.**

**Collapse causes multiple escalatory nuclear wars**
**John** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Duffield</span> , **Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, “POLITICAL SCIENCE QUARTERLY”, 109, 19** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__**,**__ **p. 766-767.**

**<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects… …</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">given the existence of nuclear weapons</span></span>.**



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic CPs-Consult Japan]]Consult Japan**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic CPs-Consult Japan-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 


**Observation one is text: The United States federal government should enter into binding consultation with the nation of Japan over whether**
**_**
**The United States federal government should support this proposal during consultation. The United States federal government should abide by the results of consultation.**

**Observation two is competition:**
**A. It’s competitive – you can’t guarantee passage of plan and consult simultaneously**
**B. It’s not topical – it violates “resolved.” Even if proven topical, competition checks abuse.**

**Observation three is the net benefit:**
**Failure to consult over military presence issues kills the alliance**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael</span> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schiffer 6-17-10,</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the deputy assistant secretary of defense for East Asia. KEYNOTE ADDRESSES “150 YEARS OF AMITY & 50 YEARS OF ALLIANCE: ADOPTING AN ENHANCED AGENDA FOR THE U.S.-JAPAN PARTNERSHIP” Center for New American Security </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SEC. SCHIFFER: </span>__As we think of what’s entailed… …__an alliance that is equally responsive. </span>

**A weakened alliance means multiple hotspots go nuclear – extinction**
**INSS 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University. </span>The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership, October, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at… …</span>__in redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties__.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic CPs-NFU]]NFU**</span>=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Book Antiqua","serif";">Counterplan text: The United States federal government should adopt a no first use declaratory policy. </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="storydate"><span style="font-family: "Book Antiqua","serif";"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;">Affirming a No First Use policy decreases the salience of weapons and strengthens nonproliferation across the board </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Book Antiqua","serif";">The Stanley Foundation, 2008 “The Stanley Foundation: A New Look at No First Use of Nuclear Weapons” August 8, 2008, http://www.maximsnews.com/news20080822stanleyfdtnnuclearfirststrikedoctrine10808221601.htm </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">The Case for No First Use Throughout the Cold War… …</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 5pt; line-height: 115%;">US ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT).</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Book Antiqua","serif";"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Book Antiqua","serif";"> </span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic CPs-Appropriations CP]]Appropriations CP**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic CPs-Appropriations C﻿P-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 
<span style="color: black;">TEXT: The United States Congress should end all funding for [</span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">insert what the plan withdraws</span><span style="color: black;">]</span>

<span style="color: black;"> It competes, only the president has the power to withdraw military forces, the counterplan just ends funding which solves </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Jeffrey **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rosen</span>__**, author, 3/4/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, “In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, The New York Times,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span>, umn-rks </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Legal scholars</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> — both critics and supporters… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">month for specified numbers of troops</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span style="color: black;">Now is key – the counterplan checks a unilateral executive </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Maya **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schenwar</span>__**, executive director, 2/14/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__**, “Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers”, truthout, a non-profit organization, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/011409J]]</span>, umn-rks </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">Congress took little initiative to re<span style="border: medium none initial;">in</span>… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">carry out the terms of the agreement."</span>


<span style="color: black;">Unilateral executive risks interventionist wars and kills the constitution </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Arthur Meier **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schlesinger</span>__**, Pulitzer prize winning historian, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__**, “The imperial presidency “, p. 497-498, google books, umn-rks </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is little more typically American than… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">in useless wars </span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> grandiose dreams.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Global nuclear war </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Jorge **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hirsch</span>__**, 11/1/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">5</span>__**, “The Real Reason for Nuking Iran”, Antiwar.com, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=7861]]</span>, umn-rks </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Yes, you read it right: </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">The U.S. is prepared… …escalation will lead to global nuclear war</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic CPs-Appropriations C﻿P-2NC Overview]]2NC Overview</span>==== 


<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**And checks on executive power are key to prevent nuclear war** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Ray **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Forrester</span>__**, professor at Hastings College of the Law, August **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">89</span>__**, “ESSAY: Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem.”, The George Washington Law Review, lexis, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">A basic theory--if not the basic theory of our… …in general, probably </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">would be unable to survive</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>

====AT: Perm==== 



<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**THIRD, using the power of the purse unilaterally is key to check executive adventurism** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Peter **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Raven-Hansen</span>__**, Glen Earl Weston Research Professor of Law at George Washington University, **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__** William C. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Banks</span>__**, professor of law at Syracuse University College of Law, May **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__**, “ARTICLE: PULLING THE PURSE STRINGS OF THE COMMANDER INCHIEF”, Virginia Law Review, lexis, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the particular context of national security appropriation… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">the ultimate check on executive </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">national security </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">practices</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. n119</span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**CP alone is key to a balance of powers** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Louis **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fisher</span>__**, Senior Specialist in Separation of Powers for the Library of Congress, Spring **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">97</span>__**, “ARTICLE: Presidential Independence and the Power of the Purse”, U.C. Davis Journal of International Law & Policy, lexis, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The shift of the war power from Congress <span style="border: medium none initial;">to</span>… …President's actions</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> prospectively as well as retrospectively.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black;">More evidence, the counterplan alone is key to check presidential powers</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> Russ **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Feingold</span>__**, US Senator from Wisconsin, 2/2/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, “How To End The War”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tompaine.com/articles/2007/02/02/how_to_end_the_war.php]]</span>, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the United States of America, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the… …It’s because it doesn’t have the will</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>


==Afghanistan== 

===Advantage CP=== 


TEXT: The United States federal government should 
-reallocate its current presence in Afghanistan to selected noncontiguous model districts within the north of Afghanistan and invest in economic and political development in said districts. 
-renew authorization for the Afghanistan War to reflect a focus on solving global security interests and stability 
-update and renew its resolutions previously put forth to the United Nations Security Council guiding US and NATO presence in Afghanistan to reflect these focuses 
-reallocate a portion of its defense budget from defense weaponry to sustainable security initiatives 
-renounce the withdrawal deadline in Afghanistan and fully support the US counterinsurgency strategy 
-push for a global climate treaty at the Cancun climate talks and devote diplomatic resources towards that goal as well as the goal of building multilateral institutions to prevent proliferation 


Counterplan solves – redistribution of troops stops the Taliban and spills over to stabilize the country. 
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span>__** (Gilles, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey. “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan”, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://carnegieendowment.org/files/dorronsoro_fixing_failed_strategy2.pdf) 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The new strategy</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> I suggest </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">requires a redistributio</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">n… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a war economy and the insurgency itself</span>


And, counterinsurgency bad offense doesn’t apply – the counterplan overhauls our current strategy 
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Khan 9</span>__** (Major Mehar Omar Khan, Pakistan Army, is currently a student at the US Army Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas. He has served as a peacekeeper in Sierra Leone, a Brigade GSO-III, an instructor at the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul, and as Chief of Staff (Brigade Major) of an infantry brigade. He has also completed the Command and Staff Course at Pakistan’s Command and Staff College in Quetta. 2009, “Don’t Try to Arrest the Sea: An Alternative Approach for Afghanistan,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/an-alternative-approach-for-af/) 

Over the last three months that I’ve spent … …My proposed ‘approach’ addresses this dilemma. 


CP builds public support for the war, solves heg 
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thistlethwaite and Katulis 9</span>__** (Rev. Susan Brooks Thistlethwaite is a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress. Brian Katulis is a Senior Fellow at American Progress, where his work focuses on U.S. national security policy in the Middle East and South Asia. Katulis has served as a consultant to numerous U.S. government agencies, private corporations, and nongovernmental organizations on projects in more than two dozen countries, 11/19, “How to Make the Afghanistan War a “Just War” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/11/just_war.html, JC) 

Force is reasonable according to just war theory… …enshrined in the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights. 

==<span style="font-size: 120%;">South Korea</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 17px; line-height: 25px;">Tacticals CP</span>=== 
<span style="line-height: 19px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">Text: The United States federal government should deploy Artillery Fired Atomic Projectiles to the Eighth United States Army in Korea</span> and develop a doctrine for their use.</span>

<span style="line-height: 19px;"> CP solves – North Korea would dismantle their nuclear arsenal and the nuclear umbrella gains credibility – solves their impacts</span>
<span style="line-height: 19px;"> UPI 10-29-2009**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“Calls for nuclear weapons in South Korea,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Calls_for_nuclear_weapons_in_South_Korea_999.html]]</span>)</span>**</span>


<span style="line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">With the U.S. defense chief in Seoul… …</span>neutralize the North's nuclear threat<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, he said.</span></span>**</span>


<span style="line-height: 19px;"> And solves the net benefit – reinforces our ability to win a war against North Korea</span>
<span style="line-height: 19px;"> TAMSETT 2003 **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jeremy, Graduate Research Assistant at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Evolving U.S. Strategic Landscape: A Fresh Look at Low-Yield Nuclear Weapons,” December 1, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gyre.org/news/article/3599/#fulltext]]</span>)</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Diplomacy is the tool <span style="font-size: 7pt;">in the chest… </span>…be the most desirable answer to that dilemma.</span>**</span>

===Regionalism Advantage CP=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Text: The United States federal government should promote the creation of an East Asia security forum with membership limited to the nations of ASEAN plus China, South Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, India, and the United States.</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 19px;">**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Counterplan solves regionalism and everything else and avoids our regionalism defense – and the perm can’t solve and links to the net benefit</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Tanaka and Liff 9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Hitoshi, senior fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange, and Adam, Ph. D. candidate at Princeton, “Japan’s Foreign Policy and East Asian Regionalism,” Council on Foreign Relations December 2009, dml)</span></span>


<span style="line-height: 19px;"> Pillar Three: East Asia Security Forum </span>
__<span style="color: black;">East Asia faces a growing number of… …<span style="background-color: yellow;"> evolve into a permanent security forum</span> in Northeast Asia.</span>__

==<span style="color: black;">PMCs</span>== 
===Military Integration CP=== 
====1NC==== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Text: The United States federal government should require that all private military contractors under contract with the United States federal government be members of the United States Armed Forces for the duration of those contracts.** </span>


<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**PMCs need to be folded in to all military regulations to ensure effective regulation.** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jon D. </span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Michaels</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Law Clerk to the Honorable Guido Calabresi, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; Law Clerk designate, the Honorable David H. Souter, U.S. Supreme Court; J.D., Yale Law School, Fall 200</span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">4</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “Article: Beyond Accountability: The Constitutional, Democratic, and Strategic Problems With Privatizing War” Washington University Law Quarterly, p. lexis </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in; text-decoration: none;">The next step would be for Congress to… …with what currently disciplines U.S. military personnel. </span>

<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**The CP’s clear regulation prevents any further abuse as it keeps the US in check** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;">**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Avant</span></span>__,__** Ph.D., University of California, San Diego, May 200**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Deborah, “Privatizing Military Training”, Volume 7, Number 6,http://www.fpif.org/briefs/vol7/v7n06miltrain_body.html)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Privatizing military training also has potential… </span>…</span>military training can be purchased for $50 million. </span>

<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**Keeping PMCs outside the Armed Forces allows for unchecked executive control over military operations and destroys inter-branch checks** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jon D. </span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Michaels</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Law Clerk to the Honorable Guido Calabresi, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; Law Clerk designate, the Honorable David H. Souter, U.S. Supreme Court; J.D., Yale Law School, Fall 200</span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">4</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “Article: Beyond Accountability: The Constitutional, Democratic, and Strategic Problems With Privatizing War” Washington University Law Quarterly, p. lexis </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[*1049] In this Part, I focus on how… </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">…imbalance</span> that has yet to be satisfactorily anticipated<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">. </span></span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**The net benefit is hegemony** </span>


<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**Reduction in force sizes and expanded operating zones make continued PMC use necessary to maintain US power projection** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Richard D. </span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Wallwork</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, RA Major in the British Army, School of Advanced Military Studies, United States Army Command and General Staff College, 1/2/0</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, http://stinet.dtic.mil/dticrev/PDFs/ADA436294.pdf</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar">Reductions in force size</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, however, </span><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar">have… …monopoly on the use of the tools</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”48</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**Lack of command structure application to PMCs makes future operational effectiveness impossible; it diverts attention and destroys command flexibility which is key to war fighting** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Fred </span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Schreier</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, consultant with the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces Graduate Institute of International Studies,</span> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">and</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> Marina </span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Caparini</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, Senior Fellow at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces Department of War Studies, King’s College, University of London, “Privatising Security: Law, Practice and Governance of Private Military and Security Companies” March 200</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">. http://www.dcaf.ch/_docs/op06_privatising-security.pdf. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Gender Modified</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in;">Key <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">problems with military contractors exist because… </span>…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">restricting entry, movement, and action of PMCs and PSCs. </span></span>

<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**And, regulating PMCs to fit within the operational framework of the military is key to future operational effectiveness** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Richard D. </span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Wallwork</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, RA Major in the British Army, School of Advanced Military Studies, United States Army Command and General Staff College, 1/2/0</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, http://stinet.dtic.mil/dticrev/PDFs/ADA436294.pdf</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;"><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The military should not operate in areas where… </span>…inquiry board will do doubt have found out. </span></span>


<span style="margin-right: -0.75pt;">**And, loss of leadership causes multiple nuclear wars, systemic global instability, and magnifies all impacts.** </span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Niall </span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Ferguson</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and professor of international history at Harvard University, Fall 200</span>**<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">4</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, Hoover Digest, “A World Without Power” http://www.hooverdigest.org/044/ferguson.html</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt; tab-stops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">So what is left? </span><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Waning empires. Religious revival..s</span>…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">such a not-so-new world disorder.</span></span>
==BMDs== 

===New START CP=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should pressure China to implement the terms of the New START Treaty and to join the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counterplan solves any shenanigans relating to China – absent the counterplan and __even with the plan__ China will modernize its forces, causing modernization by Taiwan, India, the US, and Japan, turning case and causing global nuclear war – CP is __the only way__ to stop this and their China advantages </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stokes and Blumenthal 1/2 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(<span style="color: black;">Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why China’s missiles should be our focus,”</span> [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123102687.html]], dml) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">With the New START treaty ratified, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama</span></span><span style="color: black;"> administration</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">… …quickly make New START irrelevant to nuclear stability</span></span><span style="color: black;">.</span></span>


==Wayzata DM Courts Aff== 



===Deference CP=== 

====1NC==== 

**Text: The United States Supreme Court should overturn Korematsu v. United States.**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CP solves deference – Korematsu is the key issue</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Masur 3 (NOTE: This card is a PDF and I'm a little too lazy to get cites together, email me if you need the card)</span>**

====2NC==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">And, their 1AC author concludes that Korematsu is key while at the same time never even mentioning the plan – THIS IS THEIR 1AC CARD REHIGHLIGHTED </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Pearlstein 3 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Deborah N., Deputy Director of the U.S. Law and Security Program at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, and a Visiting Fellow at the Stanford University Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law, “The Role of the Courts in Protecting Civil Liberties and Human Rights for the Post-9/11 United States”, 2nd Pugwash Workshop on Terrorism: External and Domestic Consequences of the War on Terrorism, [[http://www.pugwash.org/reports/nw/terrorism2003-pearlstein.htm]])</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black;">In each of the historical examples</span>__ <span style="color: black;">just given, </span>__<span style="color: black;">the judiciary ultimately played a critical role in evaluating the legality of executive action.</span>__ <span style="color: black;">In the Civil War case, Lambdin Milligan, who had led armed uprisings against Union forces in Indiana, appealed his military tribunal prosecution to the U.S. Supreme Court. In</span> //<span style="color: black;">Ex Parte Milligan</span>// <span style="color: black;">(1865), the U.S. Supreme Court held Milligan's military prosecution unconstitutional, holding that as long as the civilian "courts are open and their process unobstructed, . . . they can never be applied to civilians in states which have upheld the authority of the government." In</span> //<span style="color: black;">Ex Parte Quirin</span>// <span style="color: black;">(1942), the Supreme Court reviewed the military prosecution of the German army spies for violations of the laws of war and concluded that it was within the executive's power. Unlike the civilian subject to military justice in</span> //<span style="color: black;">Ex Parte Milligan</span>//<span style="color: black;">, the Quirin defendants were members of the army of a nation with which the United States was in declared war. And critically, Congress had expressly authorized military commission trials for the offenses for which they were accused.</span> __<span style="color: black;">The Supreme Court likewise upheld the exclusion of Japanese-Americans from their homes in//Korematsu//</span>__ //<span style="color: black;">v. United States</span>// <span style="color: black;">(1944), </span>__<span style="color: black;">explaining: "<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Korematsu was</span></span>__ <span style="color: black;">not excluded from the military area because of hostility to him or his race. He was </span>__<span style="color: black;">e<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">xcluded</span> because we are at war with the Japanese</span>__ <span style="color: black;">Empire, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">because</span> the properly constituted <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">military authorities</span>__ feared an invasion of our West Coast and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">felt constrained to take</span>____<span style="color: black;"> proper security <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">measures, and</span></span>__ <span style="color: black;">finally, </span>__<span style="color: black;">because <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">,</span> <span style="color: black;">reposing its confidence in this time of war in our military leaders - as inevitably it must - </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">determined that they should have the power to</span>__ <span style="color: black;">do just this." </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">As these examples demonstrate, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the U.S. Supreme Court has not always acted to</span>____<span style="color: black;"> enforce positive legal <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">protect</span>ions in favor of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the individual against</span> the government's exercise of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">'wartime' power</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">. Nonetheless, the Court's structural involvement conveyed a critical political message that executive power remained subject to the rule of law. In addition, the Court's published majority opinions clarified the nature of the executive action taken in response to perceived wartime threats, providing a basis for comparative analysis of subsequent executive conduct. In vigorous and public dissenting opinions accompanying each decision, minority justices gave expression to the strong opposing arguments on the resolution of the legal questions presented. Perhaps most important, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the judicial decisions</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __provided__</span> <span style="color: black;">Congress, legal scholars, and the American public </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a means for understanding and</span>__<span style="color: black;">, in the relative calm of post-war decision-making, __for <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">reevaluating the</span>__ political </span>__<span style="color: black;">wisdom of</span>__<span style="color: black;"> __the challenged <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">actions</span>__. Thus, for example, </span>__<span style="color: black;">a federal court eventually granted a writ of</span>__ //__<span style="color: black;">coram nobis</span>__// __<span style="color: black;">in</span>__ <span style="color: black;">Mr. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Korematsu's case as a result of executive misrepresentations</span>__<span style="color: black;">. (//Korematsu v. United States// (N.D. Cal. 1984)). In 1971, to rein in what was by then broadly recognized as executive excesses, Congress passed 18 U.S.C. § 4001(a), providing: "No citizen shall be . . . detained by the United States except pursuant to an Act of Congress." And in 1988, Congress awarded reparations to the remaining survivors and descendants of those interned during World War II as a result of the military exclusion order. </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pre-emptive War CP</span>=== 


**Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule that the preemptive war doctrine is unconstitutional.**

**New text: The United States federal government should not engage in preemptive warfare in any situations except against al Qaeda and other known terrorist threats. (net benefit was the War on Terror good stuff)**

**Preemption is key to militarism and to fight terrorism**
Walter **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Williams</span>__**, bachelor's degree in economics from California State University (1965) and a master's degree (1967) and doctorate (1972) in economics from the University of California at Los Angeles, “Fighting Terrorism and the Case for Pre-emption,” Capitalism Magazine, April 8, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__**, http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?ID=3596, UK: Fisher 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Fighting terrorism as well as rogue dictators…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>to wait for you to finish construction</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

==**Drones**== 

===**Consult Pakistan**=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should enter into binding consultation with the government of Pakistan over whether it <span style="color: black;">should </span>**



__Consultation brings legitimacy to the democratic revolution, which solves Pakistan instability__
**<span style="color: black;">Riedel 1-8</span>** __<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bruce, senior fellow in the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution, How To Save Pakistan From the Abyss, http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/81113/save-pakistan-from-the-abyss)</span></span>__

__<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">This year</span></span>, <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">President</span></span> <span style="background: lime;">Obama must … …</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> be good for Pakistan, for India, and for America. </span></span>__


__Say Yes- Pakistanis want the war to end- drones and civilian deaths__
<span style="color: black;">Hussain 1-10</span>__ <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dr. S Amjad, retired Toledo surgeon, Pakistanis believe U.S. is destroying their country, http://toledoblade.com/article/20110110/COLUMNIST12/110109527/-1/OPINION02)</span></span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">When you ask</span> two <span style="background: lime;">Pakistanis</span> about ... …<span style="background: lime;"> where the United States is not officially at war</span>.”