[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Futenma AFF**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**1AC - University of Texas**</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Observation I: Inherency –**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Sunday’s election in Okinawa proves – public animosity over Futenma is higher than ever**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Times 11/29** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Times (London), “US base must leave Okinawa, says its re-elected Governor”, 11/29/10, Edition 2; National Edition, News, Pg. 30, lexis, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The Governor of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … pressure from Washington.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**No resolution is in sight – Nakaima will block all attempts to move Futenma internally**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Yoshimuri and Funatski 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ryuhei Yoshimura and Kakuchi Funatsuki, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff writers, Yomiuri, “Nakaima win brings Futenma solution no closer,” The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), Pg. 1, lexis, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">NAHA--</span>__Okinawa Gov. … solution is reached.__</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Advantage one: Senkaku –**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**China and Japan are on the brink of war over the Senkaku Islands – risks global escalation**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Khan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the Financial Express Bangladesh [Maswood Alam Khan, “An islet straining China and Japan”, 9/21/10, http://www.thefinancialexpress-bd.com/more.php?news_id=112447&date=2010-09-22, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">Anti-Japanese sentiment … </span>muscle to Iraq</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**US-Japan relations are at a critical point – resolving Futenma is key**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Foster and Kanak 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– a former State Department official, is vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, and a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J. [Jim and Don, “A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations?” New York Times, 9/15/10, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Life rarely gives. … their defense budgets.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Futenma crushes US-Japan relations DESPITE REGIONAL THREATS**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Blair 11/29** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gavin, Correspondent, “Okinawa election eases pressure on US military base location,” The Christian Science Monitor, 11/29/10, Lexis, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both Washington and … </span><span class="Underline">belligerent Asian neighbors.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**This gives China a window to seize the Senkaku Islands**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Ito 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– staff writer for The Japan Times [Masami, “Beijing testing Japan-U.S. relationship, Armitage warns”, The Japan Times, 9/16/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100916a4.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former U.S. Deputy Secretary … a more meaningful nature."</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Resolving Futenma is key to checking attack**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Tabuchi 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Hiroko, “Okinawa vote imperils U.S. base; Re-election of opponent of Marine station seen as obstacle to Japan deal,” International Herald Tribune, 11/30/10, NEWS, pg. 2, lexis, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">Voters </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the … </span><span class="Underline">lingering historical animosity.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Senkaku conflict risks full-scale Sino-Japanese war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Wall Street Journal 9/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Other China Sea Flashpoint”, 9/12/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704644404575481172425189824.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rival claims to </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">… </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">harder to extinguish.</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Draws in the US and the rest of Asia**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pei and Swaine 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate and director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment, Michael, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment’s China Program [Minxin, “Simmering Fire in Asia: Averting Sino-Japanese Strategic Conflict,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=17720&prog=zch]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">The stakes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for … </span><span class="Underline">on the other.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Cirincione 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cirincione, Joseph. "The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain." Foreign Policy (Spring</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2000): 120. Expanded Academic ASAP]</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">The blocks</span></span> __would <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a nuclear weapon since 1945.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Advantage two: Naval Power**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Elections prove Futenma opposition is still high**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Takeda 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kazuhiro, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer, “Bases focus of election for 30% of Okinawa voters,” The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), 11/30/10, pg. 3, lexis, LFan]</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Yomiuri Shimbun … answers from 4,902 voters.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Dispute spills over and prevents us from stationing nuclear aircraft carriers in Japan**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Auslin 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese Studies Director @ AEI [Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]</span>]</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here's the … alliance’s military capabilities.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Scenario I: Carriers**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Stationing in Japan is key to naval power projection**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kazuhisa 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ogawa Kazuhisa, Analyst of International Politics and Military Security Issues, “Substantive Debate Needed on Defense Partnership,” 1999, Japan Quarterly, July—September, Volume 46, Number 3]</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first … </span><span class="Underline">a power-projection platform</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Aircraft carriers are uniquely key to sea power**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Brookes 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter, Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies, Asian Studies Center, “Flattop Follies: Navy cuts back on carriers,” the Heritage Foundation, 2 May 2008, <http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed050208a.cfm>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Maintenance required on … to its detriment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Sea power is key to preventing every scenario of conflict**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">United States seapower … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">extended campaigns ashore.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Every carrier counts – falling fleet levels emboldens adversaries**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Eaglen and Dolbow 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mackenzie Senior Policy Analyst for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies; and Jim, M.A. candidate in Statecraft and World Politics at the Institute of World Politics in Washington, D.C., “SOS: Congress Must Save the Aircraft Carrier Fleet,” April 2, http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/wm1880.cfm]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recently, U.S. Navy leadership … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operations, and modernize.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Scenario II: Korea**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="createdby">**The Korean peninsula is on the brink of war – US aircraft carrier deployment is key to deterring it**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="createdby">**Guarnieri 12/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Phil, “Iron Glove/ Velvet Fist”, 12/3/10, http://www.antonnews.com/floralparkdispatch/opinion/12031-phil-osophically-speaking-december-3-2010.html, LFan]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Winston Churchill once … </span><span class="Underline">boldness without excluding it.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**High risk of escalation now**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**SMH12/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James Norman, Jim Green, " North Korea on the brink in a nuclear world ", 12/1/10, http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/politics/north-korea-on-the-brink-in-a-nuclear-world-20101201-18gdh.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">Tensions remain high … of megaphone diplomacy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**North Korean war goes nuclear**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Chol 2 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">[Kim Myong, The Agreed Framework is Brain Dead, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second choice … of the Americans.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Causes extinction**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="cite">Hayes and Hamel-Green 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-weight: normal;">On the Korean … </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Earth’s protective ozone</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Plan: The Department of Defense should withdraw all U.S. Marines from Okinawa except the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Removing troops from Futenma solves the alliance without undermining US deterrence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Bandow 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– senior fellow at the Cato Institute [Doug, “Get out of Japan”, The National Interest, 6/18/10, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/get-out-of-japan-3580, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Candidate Barack Obama… </span>__place to start__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Withdrawing all but the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit solves relations and public animosity**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**O’Hanlon 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution [Michael, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">Keeping so many … to Japanese use</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The plan is key – withdrawing marines while maintain air and naval units is key to regional security**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Chanlett and Konishi 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Specialist in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service, Analyst in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service [Emma Chanlett-Avery and Weston S. Konishi, 7/23/2009, “The Changing US-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” published on fas.org http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33740.pdf]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some </span>__analysts argue … in the region.__</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The plan is key to the alliance**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Bandow 10** **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to President Reagan [Doug, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” 5/12/10, The National Interest Online, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/japan-can-defend-itself-3594, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__America's post-Cold … Washington to deliver.__</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Prefer our impact scenarios over their contrived justifications**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**De Vries 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul, “Ditch Futenma to resurrect Japan-U.S. ties,” Japan Times, 11/30/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20101130hn.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dear Okinawa Gov. … VRIES Saitama City</span></span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Economy Advantage - Houston Memorial**</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kan is pushing stimulus**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Bloomberg 9/9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lily Nonomiya and Keiko Ujikane, “Kan Unveils $11 Billion Stimulus Package to Boost Consumption, Employment”, 9/9/10, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-10/kan-unveils-11-billion-stimulus-as-yen-advance-threatens-japan-s-economy.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese Prime Minister … first, on Aug. 30.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**That’s key to economic growth**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kyodo News 9/13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“3RD LD: Japan to decide on corporate tax cut by year-end”, Japan Policy & Politics, FindArticles.com, 9/13/10, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0XPQ/is_2010_Sept_13/ai_n55196199/, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">Prime Minister Naoto <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">… </span>at around 25-35 percent.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kan’s policies will get blocked in the Upper House – he needs opposition support to get bills passed**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Watanabe and Okabayashi 9/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tetsuya and Sawa, “Divided Parliament puts Kan's budget plan, key bills in peril”, Asahi Shimbun, 9/16/10, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201009150328.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">With the fate … </span>and tax reforms.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Removing the Futenma Base builds support for Kan**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Irish Times 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David McNeill, “Okinawa's US base took one PM down, can it take another?” 6/26/10, http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/world/2010/0626/1224273366535.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__There can be__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__something you can’t do__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Independently, Japanese economic collapse results in Asian instability**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Auslin 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael Auslin, February 17, 2009, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, many </span>__economists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__heavily armed region__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Japan’s economy is on the brink – breakdown triggers global economic collapse**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The American Dream 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Coming Economic Collapse Of Japan – And Why You Should Be Extremely Concerned About It”, The American Dream, 5/4/10, http://endoftheamericandream.com/archives/the-coming-economic-collapse-of-japan-and-why-you-should-be-extremely-concerned-about-it, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most Americans pay … period a year ago.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Causes wars globally that escalate**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Green and Schrage 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael J. Green, Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic And International Studies, and Steven P. Schrage, SCIS Scholl Chair in International Business and former official with the US Trade Representative’s Office, March 26, 2009, “It’s not just the economy,” Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="underline0">Facing the worst … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">embrace at home.</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Mead 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations [Walter Russell, “Only Makes You Stronger”, The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If current market … </span><span class="boldunderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-weight: normal;">have to fight</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**No turns – economic collapse empirically causes war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Reuveny and Thompson 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University, professor of Political Science at Indiana University [Rafael and William, Kondratieff Waves, Warfare, and World Security, 2006, p. 210-211]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our next step … we have suspected.</span></span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Coral Reefs Add-on**</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Futenma will destroy the coral reefs – pushing many species towards extinction**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Center for Biological Diversity, et al. 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ Center for Biological Diversity, Earthjustice, American Friends Service Committee, Animal Welfare Institute, Big Wildlife, Endangered Species Coalition (on behalf of more than 400 organizations, see below*), Environmental Protection Information Center, Fellowship of Reconciliation, Greenpeace, Humane Society of the U.S. and Humane Society International, International Marine Mammal Project of the Earth Island Institute, Natural Resources Defense Council, No Nukes North, Rainforest Action Network, Sea Turtle Restoration Project, Turtle Island Restoration Network, Western Nebraska Resources Council, The Whaleman Foundation, Wild Equity Institute, Xerces Society, Biological Organizations, 2010, http://cop10.org/issues/military/106-henokodugongs]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The island … for dugong survival.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The loss of the coral reefs cause a chain reaction of extinctions - causing world poverty which endangers nations and a loss of biodiversity**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Red Orbit 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Staff Writer March 26 2010 Coral Reef Extinction Could Have Catastrophic Effect)<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/index.html]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Were that to … around the world."</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Japan corals are keystone species for coral adaption to oceanic temperature change - essential to all life and biodiversity**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Science Daily 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Science Daily, Japanese Coral changes sex on the sea floor, February 20th 2009,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/02/090219202833.htm]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Trees do it. Bees … of daily protein.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Biodiversity is key to human survival**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Irish Times 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [7/27, LN]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such pleasure is … probably still function.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Loss of biodiversity leads to incurable global disease**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Costello 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Anthony Costello Professor of International Child Health at the UCL Institute of Child Health, Apocalypse now, July 2008]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Loss of biodiversity … to global health.__</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, the loss of biodiversity is the greatest impact**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Chen 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jim Chen, Prof. of Law Globalization and Its Losers 9Minn. J. Global Trade 157]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The value of … , perhaps a hundred million.__</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==Whistleblower Politics DA== 
<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">**Whistle-blower bill will pass in lame-duck session – that’s key to free speech**
**Yin** **12/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sara Yin, " Amid WikiLeaks Uproar, Congress To Pass Whistle-Blower Laws ", 12/1/10, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2373662,00.asp]]</span>, LFan]</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Congress is poised … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">have been suppressed. </span>

**<read link>**

**That kills the bill**
**Duesterberg 10/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – President of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI Inc. [10/20, “The Competitive Edge: Lame Ducks and the Economy,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.industryweek.com/articles/the_competitive_edge_lame_ducks_and_the_economy_22954.aspx?SectionID=3]]</span>]</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Given the near … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the domestic market. </span>

**US democracy related to the First Amendment is modeled globally**
**Samoriski 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jan H., Assistant professor of the Humanities Department- Communications Program @ University of Michigan – Dearborn; “5 Comm. L. Rev. 93”; LEXIS]</span>
__Against this model …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">scrutiny and criticism.</span>

**Solves multiple scenarios for extinction**
**Diamond 95 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor at Stanford and Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution [Larry, October 1995, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html|http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="MinimizeChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">OTHER THREATS This … can be built.</span></span></span></span>


==START Politics DA== 

**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">The bill has 67 votes despite GOP opposition & roadblocks</span>**
**<span class="cite">Douglass 12/15</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(William Douglas, Jonathan S. Landay, Miami Herald News, 12/15/10, " START's Senate backers say they have 67 votes ", <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/12/15/1975327/starts-senate-backers-say-they.html]]</span>,)</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">A new</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> U.S.-Russian <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">nuclear arms … </span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">foreign policy achievement to date.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">Link – Withdrawal now would be political suicide – looks weak on defense</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">Kapur </span>**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">7/16 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9.6px; line-height: 14px;">(Sahil, THE WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, National News in Context “As Afghan War Drags On, Some Democrats Threaten Revolt, Votes Last Week Revealed Democratic Growing Schism.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://washingtonindependent.com/90906/as-afghan-war-drags-on-some-democrats-threaten-revolt]]</span>, accessed 7-16-10)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Generally, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">members of your … </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">in the war next July. “6</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> </span><span style="font-size: 15.6px;">﻿</span></span><span style="font-size: 15.6px; line-height: 22px;">And, popularity is key to passage</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Mclaughlin 9/22</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span>, B.CHOU]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Unfortunately, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">the polarizing atmosphere in … necessary 67 votes is not a given.</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">And, it’s key to preventing nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Isaacs 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[John Isaacs, Executive Director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, December 4, 2009. The Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation, “Rebuttals to Arguments Against New START,” http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/nuclearweapons/articles/rebuttals_to_arguments_against_new_start/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Response: First, it is not … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">treaty will reduce this risk. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>