[[toc]]
==CHAMPIONSHIPS (all TOC and NDCA requests)== 


==Korea FTA DA - TOC== 

===1nc Politics shell=== 

KORUS will pass
Needham 4/29/11 (Vicki, The Hill, " McDermott feels confident U.S.-Korea will complete trade deal ", http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/158285-mcdermott-feels-confident-us-korea-will-complete-trade-deal)

Despite a few kinks, Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.) is confident the United States and Korea will complete their pending free trade agreement within the next several months.
In a telephone interview from Seoul on Thursday, McDermott told The Hill he's aware that members of Korea's opposition Democratic Party (DP) are opposed to the trade pact, arguing that any deal would hurt Korea and favor the U.S. auto industry.
Although McDermott, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, noted "tension" and "some division" between Korean lawmakers during talks this week, he wasn't concerned that it would affect the eventual completion of the U.S.-Korea trade deal.
McDermott, who is making his first trip to Korea in two years, said the two nations have been through a bumpy period since the trade deal was signed in 2007 and the U.S. failed to act. Neither country has ratified the agreement, and McDermott suggested that Korean officials would like to see the U.S. move forward before their National Assembly holds a final vote. 
They've made clear that they "put their nickel on the bar" and are eager for the United States to act. He said there is a feeling among some Korean lawmakers that they shouldn't agree to a trade agreement that was renegotiated more than three years after it was signed and that there's a "loss of face."
So the message for a while has been "let's get on with it," he said. 
McDermott joked that during a dinner in Seoul he noticed only Italian wine on the table. A Korean official said a bottle of wine that would cost $13 in Seattle would cost $68 in Seoul because of tariffs.
"When the FTA goes through you'll have Washington wine in Korea," McDermott said he was told. "That's one example of 1,000 things that would change with the agreement."
Congress and the Obama administration have been in technical talks on the deal for at least a month, and McDermott and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, who also made the trip, are pushing for Congress to complete the deal quickly as Korea's trade agreement with the European Union nears completion. 
McDermott and Locke were joined in Korea by Reps. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.) and Gary Peters (D-Mich.), four out of five of whom sit on the House Ways and Means Committee, during their busy three-day visit. 
"I'm absolutely confident that this U.S.-Korea free trade agreement is going to be good for companies and workers of both nations," Locke told the American Chamber of Commerce in Seoul this week. 
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk has reiterated that the Korea agreement is ready to go — lawmakers and the Obama administration are working through the agreement's technical issues, with President Obama pushing for action this spring — and has said he expects it will have broad congressional support. 

Plan is political suicide for Obama—causes massive Republican backlash
Joyner 1/12—Managing Editor of the Atlantic Council. PhD in pol sci, U Alabama (James, Afghanistan: Sparking a New Debate on an Old War, 12 Jan. 2011, http://acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistan-sparking-new-debate-old-war, AMiles) 

The center-left New America Foundation has enlisted an unlikely ally, conservative tax foe Grover Norquist, to help build a coalition against the war in Afghanistan. At first blush, this would seem unnecessary. A CNN poll released January 3 found a whopping 66 percent of Americans opposed the war, with only 35 percent supporting it. And opposition is even stronger within President Obama's base, with 80 percent of self-described Liberals and 74 percent of Democrats opposing. But Democratic strategists fear, not without reason, that it would be political suicide for the president to call for a quick end to the war, as Republican critics would hammer him as weak -- and worse. And, the same CNN poll shows, slim majorities of both Republicans and self-identified supporters of the Tea Party (52 percent each) supported the war. Self-identified Conservatives are on the fence, with 49 percent favoring and 49 percent opposing the war. Norquist, who talked to a group of us at a dinner hosted by NAF's Steve Clemons, believes fiscal conservatives, desperate to slash the massive budget deficit, yearn to join together with the center-left and end the war. His ammunition: A new poll commissioned by the Clemons' Afghanistan Study Group showing that, when informed that the war in Afghanistan was costing American taxpayers $117 billion a year, 71 percent of conservatives and 67 percent of Tea Partiers said they were "very worried" or "somewhat worried" about the financial burden of the war. In that context, 57 percent of conservatives and 55 percent of Tea Party supporters agreed, "The United States can dramatically lower the number of troops and money spent in Afghanistan without putting America at risk." Now, as I told Clemons and Norquist during the Q&A session, I think the poll is a publicity stunt of dubious probative value. (I may have used more colorful language.) The truth of the matter is that most Americans have only the vaguest notions of how much our government spends and therefore have no context whatsoever against which to judge numbers. "$119 billion" is a scary number to bandy about but it's a tiny fraction of a $3.69 trillion budget. One could imagine that, if people were told that the Department of Labor spends $117.5 billion a year, they'd wonder whether we couldn't get by without that, too. Much less $915.5 billion for Health and Human Services. I'm guessing NAF won't be polling on that, though. Whether we're getting good value for our investment in Afghanistan isn't a matter of uninformed reaction to big numbers but rather an assessment of costs and benefits. Indeed, Norquist readily acknowledges this, saying we need to have "a conversation" "about the vast expenditures of cash, the vast expenditures of other people lives, and the opportunity cost." He insists that, while everyone, himself included, agreed that we needed to go to war to "hit back at those who hit us on 9/11," we've not really had an honest dialog about the years-long rebuilding effort that followed toppling the Taliban. While we've certainly talked about it -- rather a lot in fact -- over the years, it's mostly been at the level of platitude. We've got to "finish the job" and "achieve victory," however that's defined. And, Norquist's least favorite, "we have to support the troops." The heated political environment, in which openly talking about ending the mission short of achieving our lofty goals would bring catcalls of "surrender" and "appeasement" and "betrayal," makes an adult conversation difficult. So, Norquist is trying to use the cost issue as a means of getting around this dilemma. But, while fiscal issues are his bread and butter, it's not what's driving his opposition to the war. Rather, he argues, "Being tied up there does not advance American power." He explained, "If you've got a fist in the tar baby Iraq and you've got a fist in the tar baby Afghanistan, then who's afraid of you?" While HuffPo's Dan Froomkin cringes at the loaded metaphor, it's Norquist's belief that our long adventures in the region weaken our leverage against the likes of Iran and North Korea. Further, he argues that Republican icon Ronald Reagan would never have gotten us into this position. He reminded the audience that Reagan's reaction to the 1983 bombing of the Marine barracks in Lebanon, which killed 241 Americans, "was not to stay, it was to leave. Ronald Reagan didn't decide to fix Lebanon. I think that's helpful in getting the conversation going on the right." Norquist is confident that the result of that conversation will go his way. I'm not so sure. First, the politics mitigate against it. We're gearing up for a presidential election in which the Republican candidates will vie amongst themselves to demonstrate that they're the "toughest," with no serious contender likely to come out against the war. It's hard to imagine President Obama switching course in that environment. Second, whatever private misgivings he might have about the war, this president has committed himself. The decision, taken after months of painful deliberation, to double down on the effort with the Afghan Surge truly made this "Obama's War." And firing two commanders and then putting the most charismatic and famous general in a couple generations in charge reinforced that. 

Political capital key
Wharton 11 – Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania (1/12, "U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports," http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671)

With Portman now in the Senate and other pro-trade Republicans in key positions -- such as new Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Majority Whip Eric Cantor of Virginia -- it is tempting to believe that both the House and the Senate will quickly push through the Korea agreement and then move on to Colombia, Panama and other trade pacts. But everything hinges on the ability of the President to assert his leadership on the Korea deal. "The President has demonstrated leadership," says Dittrich, "and we have no reason to think that he won't continue to do so." The battle over the Korea agreement seems likely to pit Obama on one side -- along with pro-trade Republicans. On the other side will be anti-trade Democrats and Tea Party Republicans.
Many leaders of the business community fear that the Tea Party will undermine their efforts to promote pro-trade initiatives by shooting down this deal and others. "You can't assume, as in the past, that a Republican Congress is entirely pro-trade," says USCIB's Mulligan. "The Republicans have developed this populist tinge, and they are focusing on the China trade" as a key target.

The impact is global trade and trade leadership
Bower 2010 – CSIS Southeast Asia Senior Adviser and Program Director (12/2, Ernie, “Will political capital be spent on trade?”, http://cogitasia.com/2010/12/02/will-political-capital-be-spent-on-trade-obama-congress-republicans-deal-negotiate/)

As President Obama left Seoul last month without a U.S.-Korea trade agreement (KORUS) in hand, a proverbial sigh could be heard emanating from leaders of Asian countries. They share an interest with the majority of Americans – both want to see the U.S. economy strong again. Revitalizing trade is a vital factor in making that goal a reality. Energizing trade with Asia is of particular interest, given that the Asia Pacific accounts for nearly two thirds of world trade, and Asia is by far the fastest growing and most dynamic economic region on the planet. “Chin up,” was the word after the Korea visit, “the President gets it.” He was crystal clear at APEC in Yokohama. He understood – trade is vital to a sustained U.S. recovery, and Asia is important. “In the 21st century, the security and prosperity of the American people is linked to the security and prosperity of Asia,” he said. Based on those signals, expectant Asian leaders and job-hungry Americans watched for the return to Washington, D.C. to see how and when the President would invest political capital in trade. Trade seemed to be an issue that the White House and congressional Republicans could agree to work on in the 112th Congress. That is why there was real concern yesterday after rampant Congressional Republican leaders and less buoyant Democratic colleagues left their meeting with President Obama in Roosevelt Room and revealed that trade was not among the top issues discussed at the meeting. Pressing issues like taxes, the deficit, START and other unarguable priorities were addressed, but not trade. This raises real concern among American partners in Asia. It is true that the KORUS is still not done, but both governments are working on it – USTR Ron Kirk is locked up today and tomorrow in Columbia, Maryland with his Korean counterpart, Trade Minister Kim Jong-hoon. Some would argue, why talk trade without a deal on the table? They might also argue that given the limited scope for addressing issues during the lame duck session, triage dictates that trade is not among the top three issues. Those points are granted. The purpose of this note is to remind policy makers on the Hill and in the Administration that moving ahead on trade is fundamental not only to U.S. foreign policy in Asia, but to our economic recovery and future prosperity at home. Political realities dictate that the opportunity to deal with trade in a bipartisan fashion will be fleeting, as it now seems to be relegated to next year. Getting a strong KORUS negotiated and approved in Congress is the stepping stone to moving on with the Transpacific Partnership (TPP) and leading again on trade in Asia. It is fundamental to American credibility when the president hosts APEC in Honolulu next November. Spending political capital means the Communicator-in-Chief of the United States himself has to bring the message of the importance of trade to the American people. Now is the time to invest. This country’s future depends on it.

Turns everything – prolif econ democracy environment
Dreier, 1/5 – Rep. Chairman of the House Rules Committee (Rep. David Dreier, 1/5/11, Politico, “Bipartisanship can revive economy,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47044.html, JMP)

There are no higher priorities for our country right now than job creation and economic growth.
As the new Congress begins, every decision we make must be tied directly to those goals. If we are going to get our economy back on track, we need to take several key steps. These include making the current tax rates permanent, repealing the job-killing health care law and dramatically reducing federal spending.
Some of these efforts will divide Congress politically. But they are all a part of what House Republicans pledged we would do — and of what the American people expect us to do.
At the same time, there are areas in which both parties can work together. A strong trade agenda presents a unique opportunity to promote economic growth, global partnerships and bipartisan cooperation.
Unfortunately, the trade agenda has been allowed to languish for the past four years and, in some cases, has been thwarted. In the meantime, our economy and our global prestige have suffered. There’s never been a more important time to re-engage on trade.
Trade is often blamed for every manner of society’s ills. Globally connected commerce has been accused of having a hand in everything from terrorism to pandemics. In December, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez blamed it for the tragic mudslides that claimed dozens of lives in his nation and in Colombia.
Setting aside the disservice that such a claim does for addressing the true root causes of the great challenges we face, the reality of the role of trade is precisely the opposite of what this viewpoint presents. International trade plays an important part in improving a nation’s circumstances — far beyond the immediate scope of exports and imports.
Given the current climate, the direct economic impact is the most urgent. Opening up new markets for U.S. producers, farmers, service providers and investors is essential for spurring growth and creating new job opportunities for both union and nonunion workers here at home. The three markets with which we have pending free-trade agreements — Colombia, Panama and South Korea — represent 96 million consumers and $1.8 trillion in economic activity. The opportunity for U.S. job creators is enormous, so the delay in the agreements’ consideration is unjustifiable.
The benefits of trade, however, extend considerably beyond job creation and economic growth. Economic engagement across borders builds the strong global partnerships that are necessary to address the challenges of the 21st century. Whether the issue is tariffs or nuclear proliferation, the trust and spirit of collaboration forged through economic ties help the United States advance its interests and spread its values around the globe.
Enhancing prosperity through international trade also creates the resources necessary for essential efforts like improving environmental quality, protecting human rights and building democratic institutions. Raising living standards, in fact, helps alleviate many of society’s ills, including terrorism, pandemics and, yes, even the ability to respond to natural disasters in South America.
Reviving the trade agenda also helps with another challenge: partisan politics. Trade once enjoyed a strong bipartisan consensus. The last time there was a new Republican majority, we were enthusiastic about working with then-President Bill Clinton on the trade agenda. That collaboration produced some of the biggest bipartisan achievements of the 1990s.
We are eager, again, to join with a Democratic president in revitalizing America’s global leadership role in trade liberalization.
President Barack Obama has demonstrated a commitment to expanding trade by finalizing negotiations on a side agreement with South Korea, as well as through his National Export Initiative. Republicans stand ready as committed partners in these efforts to create new opportunities for Americans through greater international trade.
By working together to pass our three pending free-trade agreements and re-engaging in the bilateral, regional and multilateral negotiations that have languished, we can revive our stagnant job market and sluggish economy. We can re-energize our relationships with key international partners.
What’s more, we can demonstrate that Republicans and Democrats can come together for the sake of our economy and our country. Though many of the issues the 112th Congress faces will inevitably lead to a clash of ideas, both parties can and should work together with a renewed commitment to economic growth and global leadership through trade.

Nuclear War
Copley 1999 (12/1, Copley News Service, Lexis)

For decades, many children in America and other countries went to bed fearing annihilation by nuclear war. The specter of nuclear winter freezing the life out of planet Earth seemed very real. Activists protesting the World Trade Organization's meeting in Seattle apparently have forgotten that threat. The truth is that nations join together in groups like the WTO not just to further their own prosperity, but also to forestall conflict with other nations. In a way, our planet has traded in the threat of a worldwide nuclear war for the benefit of cooperative global economics. Some Seattle protesters clearly fancy themselves to be in the mold of nuclear disarmament or anti-Vietnam War protesters of decades past. But they're not. They're special-interest activists, whether the cause is environmental, labor or paranoia about global government. Actually, most of the demonstrators in Seattle are very much unlike yesterday's peace activists, such as Beatle John Lennon or philosopher Bertrand Russell, the father of the nuclear disarmament movement, both of whom urged people and nations to work together rather than strive against each other. These and other war protesters would probably approve of 135 WTO nations sitting down peacefully to discuss economic issues that in the past might have been settled by bullets and bombs. As long as nations are trading peacefully, and their economies are built on exports to other countries, they have a major disincentive to wage war. That's why bringing China, a budding superpower, into the WTO is so important. As exports to the United States and the rest of the world feed Chinese prosperity, and that prosperity increases demand for the goods we produce, the threat of hostility diminishes. Many anti-trade protesters in Seattle claim that only multinational corporations benefit from global trade, and that it's the everyday wage earners who get hurt. That's just plain wrong. First of all, it's not the military-industrial complex benefiting. It's U.S. companies that make high-tech goods. And those companies provide a growing number of jobs for Americans. In San Diego, many people have good jobs at Qualcomm, Solar Turbines and other companies for whom overseas markets are essential. In Seattle, many of the 100,000 people who work at Boeing would lose their livelihoods without world trade. Foreign trade today accounts for 30 percent of our gross domestic product. That's a lot of jobs for everyday workers. Growing global prosperity has helped counter the specter of nuclear winter. Nations of the world are learning to live and work together, like the singers of anti-war songs once imagined. Those who care about world peace shouldn't be protesting world trade. They should be celebrating it.

===2nc Cards=== 

Republicans have stopped short of saying they’ll block KORUS over the other trade deals 
Reuters 3/7/11 (Doug Palmer, Reuters, 3/7/2011. “USTR ready to discuss S. Korea deal with Congress,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/03/07/usa-trade-southkorea-idUSN0720675420110307)

Both Camp and Hatch stopped short of saying Republicans would block action on the South Korea pact without progress on the other two trade deals. Together with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat, they said technical talks with the administration on the Korea legislation had already begun and would continue.

Obama submitting all 3—ensures passage
People's Daily Online 4/28/11 (" US, Panama make progress on free trade pact ", http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/90001/90777/90852/7365214.html)

"So my expectation is that as part of a broader trade package that we're going to be presenting to Congress, that we're going to be able to get this done," Obama told reporters after meeting his guest at the White House.
Due to opposition from labor unions, Obama has a package of three free trade pacts -- respectively with Panama, Colombia and South Korea signed by his predecessor George W. Bush -- to be approved by Congress. The Republicans want the president to send all three pacts to Congress so they can be approved by July 1.
"Thanks to the leadership of President Martinelli, there have been a range of significant reforms in banking and taxation in Panama," Obama said, noting that a free trade agreement would be good for both countries by opening up new markets "with potential for billions of dollars of cross-border trade."
Martinelli described as "very fruitful" his meeting with Obama, saying his country has completed "all the necessary steps" in order to have a free trade agreement with the United States, which he said is a main supplier of many goods and services to Panama.

Opposition splintered
Seattle Times 4/29/11 (Kyung M. Song, " State eager for approval of free trade with S. Korea ", http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2014904354_koreatrade29m.html)

WASHINGTON — Four years after President George W. Bush reached a free-trade agreement with South Korea, Congress may at long last vote on it this summer — paving the way for duty-free Starbucks roasted coffee in Seoul and lower sticker prices on Hyundai sedans in the United States.
The pact, the largest since the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1994, has united odd ideological corners of Congress in support while splintering organized labor's long-standing opposition to liberalizing trade.
This week, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke; Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Seattle; Rep. Dave Reichert, R-Auburn; and two other House members are making a three-day swing through the Korean peninsula to promote ratification of the agreement by both nations' lawmakers.
If approved, the deal would gradually do away with nearly all trade barriers between the United States and its seventh-largest trading partner.
Perhaps most significantly for American industry, South Korea would immediately eliminate an 8 percent tariff on U.S. passenger cars and a 10 percent tariff on trucks — cracking open a market where virtually every vehicle on the road is a domestic model.
The prospect of boosting exports from Detroit prompted the United Automobile Workers to break from other unions to back the pact. But many labor groups, including the International Association of Machinists (IAM), remain strongly opposed.
South Korea already exports $500 million worth of aerospace products to the United States each year. The IAM, which represents assembly-line workers at Boeing, fears that removing tariffs on aircraft parts would cost well-paying union jobs while doing nothing to shrink the trade deficit with South Korea.
The agreement also would phase out a 40 percent Korean tariff on U.S. beef, the exports of which plummeted after the mad-cow disease outbreak in late 2003. Washington state sold more than $42 million of beef products in Korea just before the U.S.' first case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy was detected near Yakima.
Even though South Korea partially lifted the ban in 2008, the state's beef exports have barely begun to recover, totaling just $3.2 million last year.
U.S. International Trade Commission estimates eliminating South Korea's tariffs and quotas on American goods would expand the U.S. economy by $10 billion to $12 billion a year.
Speaking to reporters along with McDermott and Reichert by phone from Seoul on Thursday, Locke, a former Washington state governor, said American trade negotiators late last year extracted better terms than what South Korea initially agreed to in 2007. The net result, he said, should be "increased jobs in America."
The Korea agreement is one of three that have been inching their way to Capitol Hill for several years. Free-trade pacts with Panama and Colombia also have been hung up by opposition from some Democrats, a smaller number of Republicans, unions and human-rights groups, among others.
Trade experts believe Republicans on Capitol Hill could peel away enough Democratic votes to pass all three agreements. President Obama views the deal with South Korea as particularly crucial to meeting his goal of doubling exports by 2014.

Concerns have been handled and the recent delegation raised support
CNA 4/28/11 (Channel News Asia, " US hails S. Korea trade pact as "win-win" deal ", http://www.channelnewsasia.com/stories/afp_asiapacific_business/view/1125441/1/.html)

SEOUL: US Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said Thursday a contentious free trade accord with South Korea was a "win-win" deal for both countries and would strengthen their companies against global competitors.
"I'm absolutely confident that this US-Korea free trade agreement is going to be good for companies and workers of both nations," Locke told the American Chamber of Commerce in Seoul.
The pact, signed in 2007 but yet to be ratified by the two countries' legislatures, is a "win-win" for both countries as it "reduces tariffs, reduces barriers and make regulations and approval process faster, more transparent and more predictable", he said.
Locke, who is leading a bipartisan congressional delegation to build support for the passage of the pact, met Wednesday with President Lee Myung-Bak.
The trade pact, which will remove 95 per cent of tariffs between the two economies, has been controversial in both countries. The main US union confederation says big businesses would be the main beneficiary.
But President Barack Obama’s administration last year won over many holdouts within his Democratic camp when South Korea agreed to revisions, including slowing down the elimination of US tariffs on car imports.
Obama's administration has put a priority on ratification this year, saying the agreement will support 70,000 US jobs and help double US exports to South Korea within five years.
The revised deal in December addressed US concerns over lopsided auto trade, the biggest hurdle to congressional approval, by introducing a delayed phaseout of auto tariffs in return for Washington's concessions on pork and medicine.

Competition against EU means passage now
Ramstad 4/28/11 (Evan, Wall St Journal, "US-South Korea Free-Trade Pact Trails EU Agreement," http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704463804576290353479710080.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)

SEOUL—A European Union free-trade agreement won a key victory from South Korean lawmakers Thursday, further bolstering a proposed deal that U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said could put pressure on U.S. lawmaker to approve a similar package with South Korea.
The step came just as a U.S. delegation led by Mr. Locke toured Seoul to rally Korean support for the U.S.-South Korea free-trade deal. Both pacts are similarly-sized, covering about $70 billion in annual two-way trade and represent some of the largest bilateral trade deals ever completed.
In an interview, Mr. Locke said the imminent passage of the EU pact in South Korea will put pressure on the U.S. Congress to do the same. A South Korean parliamentary committee approved the deal Thursday and sent it for a final vote by the full body. The EU parliament ratified the deal in February.
"The EU-Korea agreement takes effect on July 1 and so many of the same products that Americans want to sell to Korea will now come in at cheaper prices from Europe, which puts American companies at a disadvantage," Mr. Locke said. "The longer we wait, the longer that disparity."
The Obama administration is prodding Congress to ratify free-trade deals with South Korea, Colombia and Panama by July. It announced modifications to the Colombia pact earlier this month that were designed to win approval.

Obama is taking a centrist approach to maintain his political momentum
Altman, 4/5 – founder and chairman of Evercore Partners and was US deputy treasury secretary under Clinton (Roger, “A blueprint for Obama to win a second term,” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8bbe3c3a-5fb7-11e0-a718-00144feab49a.html#axzz1J40KIiQ1, JMP)

As Barack Obama, the US president, launched his re-election campaign this week, he sought to begin a new chapter in a remarkable comeback. Just four months ago he suffered the largest midterm loss since 1938. Today, his approval rating has rebounded to nearly 50 per cent but, in the face of weak growth and a looming budget crisis, success is not assured. To ensure it, Mr Obama must continue his centrist push.
So far, in domestic political terms, Mr Obama’s handling of Libya has been deft. He has clothed the use of force in a humanitarian veil. But while the Middle East is today’s story, his re-election rests on economic policy. Here he executed a deliberate move to the centre shortly after the election, scrapping opposition to the Bush tax cuts, negotiating directly with Republicans in Congress, and defusing a tense relationship with business.
All of this came about in only three months. By contrast, President Bill Clinton’s much celebrated recovery from his 1994 Congressional losses took much longer. Indeed, seven months after his defeat Mr Clinton was reduced to arguing that he was still “relevant”. It took a full year for the government shutdown of November 1995 to recharge him, and take a polling lead in early 1996. Mr Obama already has a similar lead.
That is because he executed a conscious pivot. The White House backed a five year freeze in non-security discretionary spending. It then acceded to large Republican-led cuts in the current year’s budget. On trade, an agreement with South Korea was finally submitted to Congress. And, on energy, more emphasis on domestic production of oil and gas has replaced an unpopular cap and trade emissions control system on the priority list.
All these moves are obviously centrist. The White House rejects this characterisation to avoid offending its liberal base, but there is no mistaking it. Also, all occurred with none of Mr Clinton’s soul searching. Seemingly, Mr Obama adjusted after the election, and it paid off. Nevertheless, he is not nearly out of the woods.
On the all-important question of recovery, progress remains slow. The US grew only 2.9 per cent in 2010, and may reach 4 per cent this year. Those look like good rates but they are low historically and the US labour markets remain difficult. The most recent figures put unemployment down at 8.8 per cent, but, these, too, are weak results. There are still 7.5m Americans who were employed three years ago and are out of work today.
The US is also sliding into a debt and budget crisis. Despite growth, this year’s deficit will be the largest ever recorded. The International Monetary Fund now projects that, within nine years, federal debt may hit 100 per cent of gross domestic product – a level more common in Italy or Greece. Financial markets will not indefinitely tolerate such fiscal erosion.
The question, then, is how Mr Obama can handle these challenges while maintaining his political momentum. His new strategy is working, but he needs to keep pushing forward. So here’s what the next centrist stage should look like.
First, he should not wait for a long-term budget solution until after the 2012 election. This looks expedient, especially given the bitter standoff over this year’s spending, and need for entitlement cuts and revenue increases. Waiting two years is unsound, however, both in terms of financial market risks and domestic political factors. In particular, Mr Obama doesn’t want a grand bargain to happen without him.
Second, he should break the deadlock on trade. The South Korea deal is languishing in Congress, while Panama and Colombia are yet to be submitted. It should be possible to strike a job-creating deal on all three this year, even if it requires passing them with more Republican votes than Democratic.
Third, the president has so far been heroic on education reform. He has confronted teachers unions, a cornerstone of the Democratic party, with an agenda of merit pay, tenure reform and protections for younger teachers. This is the right approach, and he should stick with it, even if it means picking battles with his own side. Finally, it is time for tax reform. This will need a bipartisan approach. With that, however, corporation tax can be lowered and the cut funded by eliminating many business deductions, boosting Mr Obama’s competitiveness agenda.
Mr Obama describes his political ideology as pragmatism. He has now proved this, both on Libya and with his agile repositioning after November’s election losses. This new centrism is working. But to win again he must now push forward his advantage.

Obama has enough to push through legislation
NPR 3/25/11 (Linton Weeks, Ron Elving, " Hail On The Chief: Obama Takes Hits On All Sides ", http://www.npr.org/2011/03/25/134850190/hell-on-the-chief-obama-takes-hits-on-all-sides)

Obama "has always used his plastic persona to his advantage," says Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University. "During the 2008 campaign, he was able to put together a broad coalition ranging from progressive activists to disaffected Republicans because everyone could see something in him that they liked. He continued to use this persona during the heated first two years of his presidency."
The Republicans undercut some of Obama's successes, Zelizer says, by painting him as a left-of-center Democrat even when he shifted toward the center. "Still, he often confounded his opponents by defying political stereotypes," Zelizer says. "Many other presidents have taken this approach as well. We just need to remember Bill Clinton."
But at some point, Zelizer says, "it is important that the president articulates a certain set of core principles, some kind of line in the sand, so that he still appears as a leader and so that he has the political capital to push through legislation."

Yes vote switching—even due to unrelated legislation
Simes and Saunders 2010 – *publisher of the National Interest, **Executive Director of The Nixon Center and Associate Publisher of The National Interest, served in the State Department from 2003 to 2005 (12/23, Dimitri and Paul, National Interest, “START of a Pyrrhic Victory?”, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/start-pyrrhic-victory-4626, WEA)

Had the lame-duck session not already been so contentious, this need not have been a particular problem. Several Senate Republicans indicated openness to supporting the treaty earlier in the session, including Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator John McCain. Senator Jon Kyl—seen by many as leading Republican opposition to the agreement—was actually quite careful to avoid saying that he opposed New START until almost immediately prior to the vote. Our own conversations with Republican Senate sources during the lame duck session suggested that several additional Republicans could have voted to ratify New START under other circumstances; Senator Lamar Alexander is quoted in the press as saying that Republican anger over unrelated legislation cost five to ten votes. By the time the Senate reached New START, earlier conduct by Senate Democrats and the White House had alienated many Republicans who could have voted for the treaty.
That the administration secured thirteen Republican votes (including some from retiring Senators) for the treaty now—and had many more potentially within its grasp—makes clear what many had believed all along: it would not have been so difficult for President Obama to win the fourteen Republican votes needed for ratification in the new Senate, if he had been prepared to wait and to work more cooperatively with Senate Republicans. Senator Kerry’s comment that “70 votes is yesterday’s 95” ignores the reality that he and the White House could have secured many more than 70 votes had they handled the process differently and attempts to shift the blame for the low vote count onto Republicans.

Our studies are better
Beckman and McGann 2008 – *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Irvine, **Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Irvine and Reader in Government at the University of Essex (Matthew N. Beckmann and Anthony J. McGann, Journal of Theoretical Politics, “Navigating the Legislative Divide: Polarization, Presidents, and Policymaking in the United States”)

A second question focuses on presidents’ role in polarized politics. Even as empiricists have cited presidents as key legislative players – in agenda setting as well as coalition building (Rossiter, 1956; Neustadt, 1960; Covington, 1987, 1988; Sullivan, 1988, 1990; Edwards, 1989; Bond and Fleisher, 1990; Peterson, 1990; Covington et al., 1995; Cameron, 2000; Edwards and Barrett, 2000) – to date the theoretical models have largely conﬁned presidents to a reactive role, that of a veto player.7 Below we incorporate presidents as strategic players into the theoretical models of lawmaking when proactively promoting preferred policies. In doing so, we not only specify elements of this strategy but also examine the conditions under which they will be effective. Finally, what does this mean for the policies that the president ultimately signs into law? The foremost implication of the preference-based models is that all congressional paths funnel toward the center of congressional members’ preferences. But listening to the Capitol’s so called ‘centrists’ suggests federal laws frequently deviate from their preferences. Seemingly pivotal lawmakers regularly pronounce a bittersweet assessment of their chamber’s products – better than nothing but far from ideal. Our ﬁnal question, therefore, examines whether all lawmaking involves moves toward the center of the ideological spectrum or whether some conditions enable presidents to pull outcomes away from the philosophical middle and toward the ideological extreme. 
Overcoming the Ideological Divide 
To this point it has been argued that polarization tends to promote gridlock. Partisan polarization does so inasmuch as it encourages lawmakers to put posturing ahead of negotiating, and ideological polarization does so inasmuch as it reduces the range of issues where pivotal voters can agree to pass any new law over the status quo. Here we build from this theoretical baseline to examine the effect of incorporating two important stylistic features: presidents and polarization. The Wellsprings of Presidential Power In his seminal work on the presidency, Richard Neustadt (1960) cited the ofﬁce’s informal levers of power – not its constitutional levers of power – as central to understanding presidents’ role in American politics generally, and federal lawmaking in particular. For Neustadt, these informal powers were rooted in the presidency’s unrivaled perspective and prestige; for Sam Kernell (1993), they stem from presidents’ unique capacity to rally public pressure against otherwise recalcitrant lawmakers (see also Canes-Wrone, 2005). And beyond personal persuasion and ‘going public’, presidents and their aides also enjoy a distinct ability to engage in what political scientists call vote-buying and Washington insiders call ‘horse-trading’.8 Whatever the president’s tactical choice – private persuasion, public pressure, or vote buying – they all ﬁt under the same strategic umbrella; each reﬂects the president’s allocation of president-controlled resources to alter lawmakers’ positions. As such, we employ the omnibus concept of ‘presidential political capital’ to capture this class of presidential lobbying. More precisely, we deﬁne presidents’ political capital as the resources White House ofﬁcials can allocate to induce changes in lawmakers’ position on roll-call votes.9 This deﬁnition of presidential political capital comports well with previous scholarship (e.g. Groseclose and Snyder, 1996) as well as contemporaneous accounts of White House lobbying. For example, after watching the administration’s recent effort before a vote on an important trade bill, the next-day’s Washington Post article described the situation: So many top Bush administration ofﬁcials were working the Capitol last night that Democrats joked that the hallways looked like a Cabinet meeting . . . The last-minute negotiations for votes resembled the wheeling and dealing on a car lot . . . Members took advantage of the opportunity by requesting such things as fundraising appear- ances by Cheney and the restoration of money the White House has tried to cut from agriculture programs. (Blustein and Allen, 2005: s. A) Nearly 20 years earlier, Ronald Reagan’s OMB 251), described a similar scene: ‘The last 10 percent or 20 percent of the votes needed for a majority of both houses on the 1981 tax cut had to be bought, period’. Applying the well-known vote-buying models (see Snyder, 1991; Groseclose, 1996; Groseclose and Snyder, 1996) to this setup, we show how presidents can strategically target their political capital to legislators to the end of inﬂuencing lawmakers and the policies they pass. From ₪ stopped here at 11:54 ₪ there we incorporate polarization into the model to show how it conditions the president’s inﬂuence. 
The Basic Model 
To start, let us consider a simple vote-buying game. There are two types of players: a president who seeks to buy votes such that the Senate passes legisla- tion more to his liking than it otherwise would, and senators, who must balance the utility they derive from voting in line with their default ideal with the beneﬁts that the president offers. Hence we assume that the legislative outcome can be described as a point on the Real number line. The president’s utility function is: Up = Aðo, pÞ − B where o is the outcome, p is the president’s ideal point and B is the sum of poli- tical capital the president spends. Let us assume that p ≥ o ≥ status quo (i.e., that the president wishes to move the outcome to ‘the right’.) Furthermore, assume that A (o, p) is a function of the distance between the outcome and presi- dent’s ideal – increasing as the outcome (o) approaches his ideal (p). The utility function of a senator is a function of whether they vote yea or nay, and whether they support the proposal sufﬁciently to vote for it absent any presi- dential pressure or bribe: If si ≤ o: Yea: Ui = Ci ðo, si Þ + bi Nay: Ui = 0 If si ≥ o Yea: 0 Nay: −Ci ðo, si Þ + bi where bi is the political capital offered to each individual senator, si is the sena- tor’s ideal point and C (o, si Þ is a function of the distance between o and s i – with senators’ utility increasing as the distance between the outcome and their ideal decreases. One interpretation of senators’ ideal points is the most extreme outcome a senator will support without a bribe. Senators for whom si ≥ o will support proposal o without being lobbied, and indeed would have to be lobbied not to support it, whereas senators for whom si < o will not vote for proposal o unless the president expends some political capital on them. Like Groseclose and Snyder (1996), we assume senators derive utility from their revealed prefer- ence over policies, not just the outcome. As a ﬁrst point, it is worth stating the obvious: the greater the president’s political capital, the greater his ability to inﬂuence legislators’ votes. If bi = 0 – either because the president chose not to get involved or because he lacks political capital to spend – then the White House is limited to the familiar role of veto bargaining (see Cameron, 2000). Indeed, when unwilling or unable to spend the political capital that presidential lobbying demands, the president and his team cannot push a proactive legislative agenda. By contrast, as bi increases, the administration’s ability to ply any particular member increases, thereby granting presidents a positive role in the policymaking process.

Doesn’t apply—even Ornstein says suddenly forcing a bill doesn’t boost polcap. Our links outweigh because the aff overstretches
Ornstein 2009 – resident scholar at AEI, PhD in political science from U Mich (7/8, Norman, "Is Obama Too Weak in Dealing with Congress?", Roll Call, WEA)

But even in a wonderfully functional Congress, achieving policy success in an area as difficult as this one would be a tough and uphill battle--no matter how skillful and popular a president may be. The same is true of health policy. Presidents can and must engage, have to step in at crucial moments and shape outcomes, mediate disputes, and use the bully pulpit to push controversial or difficult policy decisions.
But the history of presidents and Congresses shows that trying to do more--to go over the heads of Congressional leaders, to set a series of bottom lines and insist on them from party leaders and committee chairmen who find it easy to resist White House pressure--rarely works unless we are neck deep, not just waist or chest deep, in a crisis. That has always been true, but is even more so today, when majorities have to be largely one-sided and a majority party (especially when it is the Democrats) has limited cohesion or homogeneity.
The approach Obama has taken, cutting Congress a lot of slack and being supportive when necessary, led to a string of early and meaningful successes and enactments. True, the tough ones lie ahead. Finding any majority for any climate change bill in the Senate is even more challenging than it was to get a bill through the House. Finding any compromise between health bills that might make it through the House and Senate, pass fiscal muster, and be enacted into law is a tough slog.
But I believe the approach the White House has used so far has actually been smart and tough-minded, not simply expedient and weak. A successful president looks at the endgame, sees what is possible and maneuvers in the best way to get to that endgame. If you can't get bills through committee, or you can't find a majority on the floor of either chamber, you get nowhere.

Capital is finite—Obama will inevitably be bold but prioritizing is key
Washington Post 8 (Michael A. Fletcher, “Think Tank Urges a Trust in Government Initiative Along with Obama Agenda”, 11-18-08, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/44/2008/11/18/think_tank_urges_a_trust_in_go.html)

To ensure that Obama does not squander his political capital, the authors said he should pursue an explicit trust strategy, which means being careful about how quickly he rolls out his initiatives. As a starting point, Obama has promised a major economic stimulus package after taking office. More long-term, he has promised to push for changes in health care that would make coverage almost universal, while promising to implement a cap-and-trade system to address climate change. Although many supporters of Obama want him to move rapidly to capitalize on his victory and implement his agenda, the report's authors cautioned that Obama would do better to carefully sequence his initiatives. Complicated issues such as heath care and parts of his energy and climate change agenda might have to wait, they suggested. "The issue is not being bold versus being cautious," Galston said. "The issue is where to be bold and, in particular, where to be bold first."

Midterms prove – no impact to public opposition on foreign policy
Haass and Gwertzman 11-3-2010(Richard, President of the Council on Foreign Relations and Bernard, Consulting Editor of CFR.org, “Obama's Political Obstacle Course”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23304/obamas_political_obstacle_course.html)

What did you find most significant about the midterm elections?
From the vantage point of foreign policy, it would be how little a role foreign policy played. It's ironic, given that we are in this global moment, where arguably we can affect and be more affected by the world than ever before. And secondly, we are at a time where we're still involved in two conflicts, yet you wouldn't know it. There's no evidence that people's political behavior this week was influenced by foreign policy issues.

Plan is broadly unpopular—recent votes
Mianecki 3/17/11 (Julie, Staff @ LA Times, "GOP support for Afghan war holds in House vote," http://articles.latimes.com/print/2011/mar/17/nation/la-na-congress-afghan-20110318)

Congressional Republicans on Thursday held fast to support for the Afghanistan war, heavily opposing a troop withdrawal in a vote that tested whether conservative new members would adhere to the party leaders on a significant question of U.S. policy.
Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich (D-Ohio), who put forward the resolution, framed it in fiscal terms, predicting that if troops were not pulled out immediately, the war would last until 2020 and cost an additional $1 trillion.
"Are we ready to give up our entire domestic agenda so that we can continue on the path of a war to prop up a corrupt regime?" Kucinich asked.
Despite support from Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas), popular with many fiscal conservatives, the argument was rejected in a 321-93 House vote.
Still, more lawmakers were inclined to support the pullout than they were a year ago, when a similar proposal was rejected 356 to 65. Last year, 60 Democrats and five Republicans backed the pullout; this year, 85 Democrats and eight Republicans voted for the withdrawal.
None of the eight Republicans were among the chamber's freshman GOP class. The eight were Paul, Timothy V. Johnson of Illinois, John Campbell of Irvine, Dana Rohrabacher of Huntington Beach, Jason Chaffetz of Utah, Howard Coble of North Carolina, John J. Duncan Jr. of Tennessee and Walter B. Jones of North Carolina.
As popular support for the war slides, President Obama has proposed $113 billion for military operations there in his budget for 2012.The president has said he will begin withdrawing troops in July, but is leaving specifics to commanders.
Opponents of the withdrawal measure contend that pulling troops now would put the U.S. at a greater risk of terrorist attack and eliminate gains that have been made recently.
Rep. Duncan D. Hunter (R-Alpine) said the top reason for U.S. involvement was "to make sure that radicalized Muslims stop killing Americans."
"It's to stop them from destroying this country," he said. "They want to murder us … every single person in this room."
A more moderate voice, Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), said he was reluctant to oppose the resolution but that it would be irresponsible to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan in a short period of time.
"We have security interests in Afghanistan that we must accept," Coffman said. "We need to make sure that the Taliban don't take over the country."
Rohrabacher said that military efforts were failing because American troops were trying to impose a centralized government but Afghan society was inherently more tribal and village-based.
"To keep our troops over there any longer is sinful," he said. "The most responsible course of action is to, as quickly as possible, get our people out of this predicament … not to wait until this bloody quagmire kills even more Americans."
Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Valley Village) was one of the 99 Democrats opposing the resolution, saying that he wasn't ready to accept failure as the only outcome in Afghanistan.

Politically worse than staying
Biddle 9 – Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, (July-August , Stephen, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan” http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617

However, reversing policy and disengaging would be no easier for Obama. It would be the wrong course on the merits. Politically, it would commit the Administration to a policy now supported by only 17 percent of the electorate. It would play into the traditional Republican narrative of Democratic weakness on defense, facilitate widespread if ill-founded Republican accusations of the Administration’s leftist radicalism, and risk alienating moderate Democrats in battleground districts whose support the President will need on other issues. However bad the news may look if the United States fights on, withdrawal would probably mean a Karzai collapse and a Taliban victory, an outcome that would flood American TV screens with nightmarish imagery.

Baucus backed off
Schuff 3/9 (Sally Schuff, 3/9/11, "Baucus softens stance on beef market access in KORUS", http://www.feedstuffs.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=F4D1A9DFCD974EAD8CD5205E15C1CB42&nm=Breaking+News&type=news&mod=News&mid=A3D60400B4204079A76C4B1B129CB433&tier=3&nid=5353F5226F50497483D08283B10E12F2) 

Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus today clarified his position on market access for U.S. beef in the KORUS (U.S.- South Korean) free trade agreement. Baucus has said in the past that he would not accept anything less than full access to South Korea's market, a condition that is not completely met in the trade deal finalized in December by the Obama Administration.
At the end of a wide-ranging hearing today (March 9), Baucus stepped back somewhat from his previous position. He told U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, "I'm not asking for full access...I'm asking for Korea to consult with the U.S. on a 'path' to full access," Baucus said. He emphasized that the "path" must be "consistent with sound science."
Baucus insistence on full access in the KORUS agreement - believed to be in the final stages of drafting into legislation - which raised fears that the powerful chairman would not support ratification of the key trade deal.
At today's hearing, several Senators criticized the Administration for "foot dragging" on the three FTAs -- South Korea, Colombia, and Panama -- that have been stalled since President Obama took office.

He’ll get bought off
Dayen 11 (David, Columnist on national political issues @ Firedoglake, "When All You Have Left Defending You Is Max Baucus," http://news.firedoglake.com/2011/02/03/when-all-you-have-left-defending-you-is-max-baucus/)

Virtually every time that Republicans or the Obama Administration talk about working together, they specifically cite the South Korea free trade agreement as a point of covergence. The agreement, modified by Obama’s negotiators last year but substantially similar to the corporate-written agreement originally negotiated under George W. Bush, looks like it’s on a glide path to passage, given that unanimity. In fact, the only person standing in the way is noted grassroots labor organizer Max Baucus. As you can see, this is not about the labor or environmental standards in the agreement, but a parochial issue where Baucus is standing up for the interests of his state.
Baucus, whose committee oversees trade issues, is siding with cattle ranchers from his home state who were shut out of the deal. He has pledged opposition until South Korea reconsiders restrictions on the many U.S. beef exports it has barred. Baucus’s stand is a major obstacle to the White House and Republicans who are eager to bring the long-delayed pact to the Senate floor.
“I don’t support Korea until Korea opens up its market,” Baucus said in an interview Wednesday. By failing to resolve the beef dispute, he said, “they didn’t help at all, the administration or the Koreans.”
Baucus has not said whether he will merely vote against the agreement or will use the full force of his authority as finance chairman to block it indefinitely. The senator said he is working behind the scenes with U.S. trade officials to tweak the agreement to ensure Montana ranchers get a better deal.
“When I see that, I’ll support Korea,” Baucus said.
So it’s fair to say that labor has almost no key allies in this fight. Baucus will get bought off with some goodies for cattle ranchers in Montana, something he can sell to the folks back home. Heck, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association actually supports the deal, so Baucus is just looking for a fig leaf.
Labor itself has fractured, with the UAW in support of the crumbs they get from the deal, while most of the rest of the labor movement in opposition. But this agreement represents bipartisanship for the White House, and the opportunity to work across the aisle and with the business community to “get things done for the American people.” And if all you have standing in the way is Max Baucus, you don’t have much.






===Japan neg - NDCA=== 

====1nc Advantage CP==== 

The United States federal government should cancel all plans to remove its forces from, but allow negotiations over relocating bases within, Okinawa. The United States should promote co-location of Japanese and United States forces wherever possible within Okinawa, and allow the Japanese government to conduct environmental compliance inspections. The United States should offer Japan support for Okinawa’s economy, including energy efficiency, renewable energy, and smart grid technology assistance, and adopt a strategy of anticipatory public engagement through the Japan-US Educational Foundation.

Solves resentment
Cronin et al, 10 - Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program
at the Center for a New American Security. (Patrick, “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, October, 
http://cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf)

The United States should take additional measures to defuse local tensions stemming from the presence of American troops in Japan. It can encourage support for American bases (or at least reduce resentment) by granting local Japanese governments the right to conduct environmental inspections of American military facilities, an idea broached in a joint statement issued by the U.S.-Japan Security Consultative Committee in May 2010.72 “Reasonable access” on environmental matters is something local governments in Japan currently desire, and a right that governments of individual U.S. states exercise over federal property, including military bases.
Whenever feasible, U.S. military bases should be co-located with Japanese bases to ease local concerns. Co-location has already occurred in Yokota with the groundbreaking establishment of a bilateral joint operations and coordination center.73 As the JSDF makes use of facilities traditionally limited to the U.S. military, an increasing number of “American” bases will fly Japanese flags, easing sovereignty concerns. Co-locating bases not only carries political advantages; it also contributes to greater interoperability between the U.S. military and the JSDF.74
Engaging in public outreach, offering “reasonable access" to American military facilities and even co-locating bases will not remedy the challenges that exist on Okinawa. The U.S. footprint there will remain intrusive – American facilities cover almost 20 percent of the island.75 Plus, while U.S. bases on Okinawa create jobs, the island ranks as the poorest of Japan’s 47 prefectures, adding to the level of preexisting frustration.76
Although tensions on Okinawa will never fully dissipate so long as intrusive military bases remain there, the United States and Japan can mitigate popular frustration by renewing long-dormant efforts to revitalize Okinawa’s economy. The two governments should scale up an experimental “smart grid” in Okinawa into a “green Okinawa” initiative.77 This would entail investing further to improve the island’s energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable power sources such as solar and wind. A “green Okinawa” initiative could ultimately transform the island, boosting local economic growth and creating jobs.78

====T substantial==== 


Withdrawing every single Marine would only be a 28 percent reduction— (14879/53082 = .28)
Yomiuri 10/23/10 (“U.S. marines crucial deterrent,” http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/editorial/T101023001899.htm)

Last month's collisions between two Japan Coast Guard vessels and a Chinese trawler off the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa Prefecture reminded us anew of the crucial role played by U.S. Marine Corps forces stationed in the prefecture. While the United States says the full strength of marines in the prefecture is 18,000, there actually were only 14,879 there as of the end of March. They account for nearly 30 percent of the 53,082 U.S. military personnel in this nation. The marine corps in Okinawa includes infantry, artillery, air transportation and rear logistics support units, as well as a command unit. The marines' strength lies in their readiness to rapidly mobilize for deployment to conflict areas for combat operations. While their missions include special operations such as the rescue of civilians, they are not armed with missiles or bombing capabilities, unlike the U.S. Navy and Air Force. Former Democratic Party of Japan leader Ichiro Ozawa once unwisely said the U.S. Navy's 7th Fleet would be enough to secure the U.S. military presence in the Far East. However, this argument is divorced from reality. The marines have cooperative and complementary relations with the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Forces. Potential flash points In Japan-U.S. joint operations for Japan's defense, the Ground, Maritime and Air Self-Defense Forces would act as the "shield," while the U.S. Army, Navy, Air force and Marine Corps would be the "spear." The marines' ability to swiftly leap into action is especially crucial when considering the defense of islands, such as the Nansei Islands, including the Senkaku islets. It is unlikely, for the time being, that any foreign forces will launch a full-scale invasion of Japanese territory. But we cannot exclude the possibility that foreign special forces might occupy a remote Japanese island. Even more probable is a contingency occurring on the Korean Peninsula, in the East China Sea or the South China Sea. If conflict erupted on the Korean Peninsula, the U.S. marines would be quickly deployed to support U.S. forces in South Korea. The marines also would secure a foothold for U.S. troops arriving from bases in the United States to join military operations on the peninsula. The marines can only guarantee such a swift response by being stationed in Okinawa, which is located in a geopolitically important neighborhood due to its proximity to several potential flash points. This is why core elements of the 8,000 marines scheduled to be transferred to Guam are not combat forces. Lt. Gen. Edward Rice, the outgoing commander of U.S. forces in Japan, said at a recent press conference: "[The marines] have a very significant deterrent effect on the people we might want to deter. They understand time-distance relationships. They understand the capacity that's inherent in a marine air-ground task force." He underlined the role U.S. marines in Okinawa play to prevent a contingency from occurring in areas surrounding Japan. Joint exercises important The U.S. marines in Okinawa would also assist the evacuation of Japanese in the event of an emergency on the Korean Peninsula and help rescue operations following natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunami. If a contingency occurred in or around Japan or this nation suffered a peacetime disaster, cooperation between the SDF and the U.S. forces would be essential. Both nations should regularly conduct joint exercises based on a variety of scenarios to prepare for any contingency. This will help both sides detect any problems and enable them to rectify any chinks in their cooperation to improve their operations. Holding frequent exercises and discussions will enable both nations to build a relationship of trust and deepen the bilateral alliance. The administration of Prime Minister Naoto Kan should explain in detail to the public about the important deterrent provided by the U.S. marines in Okinawa, and make all-out efforts to realize the planned relocation of the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station to the Henoko district in the prefecture.

The expeditionary unit they leave behind is another 2200 Marines
The 31st MEU 2011 – official website of the US Marine Corps (google says 3/8, I accessed on 3/17/2011, “31st MARINE EXPEDITIONARY UNIT OVERVIEW (mission and composition)”, http://www.usmc.mil/unit/31stmeu/Pages/mission.aspx, WEA)

The MEU, Commanded by a Marine Colonel, is comprised of approximately 2,200 Marines and Sailors embarked aboard three or four amphibious ships. These ships are manned by another 2100-2300 Marines / Sailors and as a group are designated as an Amphibious Squadron (PHIBRON) commanded by a senior Navy Captain, who bears the title of Commodore. Joined together, the MEU and PHIBRON are designated as an Amphibious Ready Group (ARG).
The 31st MEU, working with PHIBRON 11 and the USS Essex ARG, comprise one such Navy/Marine team. The 31st MEU and PHIBRON 11 are the only Forward Deployed Naval Force (FDNF) in the Asia-Pacific region.
The MEU’s major elements are the Command Element (CE), the Ground Combat Element (GCE), the Aviation Combat Element (ACE), and a Logistics Combat Element (LCE).

There are even more left behind at Camp Gonsalves
Libbert 2004 – Corporal (Ryan D., Global Security, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2004/02/mil-040222-mcn01.htm, WEA) *note: JWTC = Jungle Warfare Training Center

Throughout all the courses, the JWTC staff stays busy all year supporting the units training there. "We have 10-20 major units that come up here every year that range from the battalion to company level. We train between 7,500 _ 10,000 personnel here annually," Smith said.
Not only do the training packages offer team-building and confidence, but the environment in which they are conducted prepares Marines for any situation.
"The type of environment here is primarily single and double canopy jungle with very steep cliffs and a number of streams," Smith said. "The terrain is very demanding and challenging. You're not going to find anything like this anywhere else in the Marine Corps."
Training at JWTC is very important for any unit because it prepares them for future contingencies.
"When you're training in a very demanding environment, it makes it easier when you operate in a less-demanding environment," Smith added. "Terrain and weather have an impact on a unit's ability to accomplish its mission. Once you get to a certain level of proficiency in the environment here, it's easier to leave here and operate anywhere else."
To make sure units get the full advantage of the JWTC experience, the staff commits itself to the units' training objectives.
"The goal here is to train units to a higher level of expertise in jungle operations so they are capable of fighting in a jungle environment," Smith continued. "We're committed to that. We can tailor our training packages to give units more land navigation or survival instruction if the unit desires."
The instructors who teach the individual courses at JWTC are pulled from other units across Okinawa to serve in either a six-month rotation period or a permanent billet.
"We have an instructor's training period for six weeks that we have internally designed to teach all the required skills and teaching techniques to become an instructor," Smith said. "They are taught how to tie knots, rappel, patrol, lead a class in survival and we basically show them examples of how lessons are done in each course. The instructors are primarily noncommissioned officers and are usually FAPed (fleet assistance program) here from 3rd Marine Division units."
The Marines who work at JWTC do more than just instruct. The small cadre of devildogs serving there range from cooks and motor transportation operators to engineers and administrators.
"Currently we have 34 Marines serving here," Smith explained. "We are a little understaffed right now because of the high operation tempo of UDP units. Fleet Assistance Program Marines from UDP units make up 80 percent of JWTC's personnel."
After the jungle warfare training grounds in Fort Sherman, Panama closed in 1999, JWTC on Okinawa became the only jungle training grounds in the entire DoD by default. But as Smith claims, he and his Marines still work on becoming the best-run installation in the military.

The plan exempts another 3200 for the Air Wing—this also proves our ground disad since it’s a core mission
Global Security 2005 (10/17, “Futenma Marine Corps Air Station”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/futenma.htm, WEA)

Marine Corps Air Station, Futenma began in 1945 as a bomber base. Construction of hangars and barracks began in 1958. The airfield was commissioned as a "Marine Corps Air Facility" in 1960 and became an Air Station in 1976. Located within Ginowan City, Okinawa, the Air Station is home to approximately 4,000 Marines and Sailors. It is capable of supporting most aircraft and serves as the base for Marine Aircraft Group 36, Marine Air Control Group 18, and Marine Wing Support Squadron 172. The Air Station provides support for the III Marine Expeditionary Force and for Marine Corps Base, Camp Butler. Since 15 January 1969 MCAS Futenma serves as a United Nations air facility and a divert base for Air Force and Naval aircraft operating in the vicinity of Okinawa.
More than 3,200 Marines are stationed at Futenma, which covers about 480 hectares and includes a 2,800-meter-long and 46-meter-wide runway. The installation is a critical component of the Marine Corps' forward deployment because it is the home base of the 1st Marine Air Wing. The Wing's primary mission is to participate as the air component of the III Marine Expeditionary Force. The wing's Marine Air Group-36 provides tactical fixed and rotary wing aircraft and flies about 70 aircraft, including CH-46 and CH-53 helicopters and KC-130 aerial refueling airplanes.

We’ll pre-empt the 1ar—exempting command headquarters for the Air Wing alone is still lots of people
Ogawa 2010 (3/7, Satoshi, Yomiuri Shimbun, “US wants to keep command unit in Okinawa”, http://www.asianewsnet.net/home/news.php?id=12906, WEA)

In place of the MEF personnel that will stay in Okinawa, Washington will shift a combat unit of equivalent size from Okinawa to Guam.
Under the road map agreed by both governments in 2006, units to relocate include the III MEF Command Element, the 3rd Marine Logistics Group Headquarters and the 1st Marine Air Wing Headquarters, among others.
Relocating all headquarters to Guam will leave no admiral-level officers on Okinawa, and the view that such a situation would hinder the operations of the MEF is gaining currency in Washington, US government sources said.
According to sources close to both governments, the central pillar of the review drafted by the U.S. side is to have the 1st Marine Air Wing Headquarters, which commands helicopter and other units, remain in Okinawa.
In its place, an infantry unit of equivalent size would be relocated from Okinawa to Guam, according to the draft.
This infantry unit would be separate from the Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF), under whose banner U.S. Marine Corps forces are usually deployed abroad.
The US side said moving a combat unit out of Okinawa will result in fewer military exercises there, thus lessening the likelihood of accidents or offenses involving marines and lessening the burden on local people.
The exact size of the combat unit to be relocated to Guam is yet to be determined, but according to an environmental impact assessment report unveiled by the U.S. Navy in November on the construction of a base in Guam, about 1,856 personnel related to the 1st Marine Air Wing Headquarters were to be relocated.
The combat unit is likely to have close to the same number of personnel.

Err neg—the numerator we used was 14,879 but in reality there are only 12 thousand Marines they could potentially withdraw. This means the percentage they remove is actually lower since this number over the total 53,082 in our military presence is 22.6%
Institute for Policy Studies 2010 (3/10, Close the Base, “Okinawa”, http://closethebase.org/us-military-bases/okinawa/, WEA)

Today, approximately 21,000 U.S. military personnel are stationed in Okinawa, of which 12,000 are Marine Corps. Together with their families, this amounts to approximately 40,000 residents stationed on the islands. The number of military personnel in the prefecture amounts to about half of the total number of U.S. military personnel stationed throughout Japan. In Okinawa, there are 33 facilities exclusively for the U.S. military, 29 water areas for military training and security, and 20 air force facilities.


====1nc Alliance advantage==== 

This aff is obsolete—basing dispute was only relevant during Hatoyama’s presidency and doesn’t define the relationship any more
Washington Post, 11 http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?index=21&did=2233488221&SrchMode=1&sid=9&Fmt=3&VInst=PROD&VType=PQD&RQT=309&VName=PQD&TS=1300980989&clientId=980 Japan's offer of security Fred Hiatt. The Washington Post. Washington, D.C.: Jan 10, 2011. pg. A.17

When the Obama administration first looked to Asia, China was the grand opportunity. Korea was a problem to be managed, and Japan, at best, a declining ally you could take for granted. Two years in, South Korea is, improbably, President Obama's best friend in Asia. China is a disappointment. And Japan has cycled from afterthought to headache to, at least potentially, useful ally again. The relationship "became shaky for a moment," Japan's foreign minister, Seiji Maehara, told me during an interview last week. But "we have been working hard to restore" an alliance which, he said, "is of extreme importance." Maehara, 48, is a telegenic and popular politician, a possible future prime minister, who has spoken with unusual candor since becoming foreign minister in September. Shortly after assuming office, he asked how a nation can defend its interests abroad when the home front is "marked by a shrinking population, a declining birthrate, an aging society and a massive fiscal deficit." Last week he added another challenge: "young Japanese, who have become inward looking these days." Maehara and his Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) colleagues, who in 2009 ended a cool half-century of dominance by the nation's previous ruling party, are looking for answers both at home and abroad. Prime Minister Naoto Kan wants to close the deficit by raising the consumption tax. A new program of child allowances, decried by the opposition as pure pandering, is designed to reverse the population decline, Maehara told me. Meanwhile, he said he is committed to easing immigration, for example of nurses from the Philippines and Vietnam - always a fraught issue in insular Japan - and increasing tourism and student exchanges. But what American officials have noticed most is his emphasis on the alliance and on shared values of democracy and open trade. And probably nothing has done more to ease the relationship past its "shaky" patch than shared disillusionment with China. The left-leaning DPJ's first prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, came into office with ideas of balancing Japan's dependence on the United States with warmer ties with China. Not entirely coincidentally, a dispute with the United States over its military bases on the Japanese island of Okinawa came to define, in an unhappy way, the U.S.-Japan relationship. For its part, the Obama administration hoped that by ramping up engagement with China, and offering it a full-size seat at the table of world governance, it could encourage responsible cooperation on global issues such as climate change and nuclear proliferation. As China surpassed Japan to become the world's No. 2 economy last year, talk of a U.S.-China "G-2" seemed to eclipse the long-standing Washington-Tokyo friendship. But the fruits of U.S. engagement with China have been meager, limited chiefly to grudging cooperation on Iran, while on other fronts U.S. officials have been let down: North Korea, currency and trade, military-to-military exchanges, human rights. China meanwhile has alarmed Japan (and other Asian neighbors) with swaggering behavior in the South China Sea, bullying mercantilism (cutting off exports of essential rare earth minerals) and officially encouraged outbursts of anti-Japanese nationalism at home. China is so powerful, and such an essential economic partner, that much of this is discussed only in code. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, after meeting with Maehara last week, said they agreed that "our defense posture must continue to evolve in order to deal with the emerging strategic environment," without elaborating on what or who is emerging. Maehara last week warned of the "increase in military spending by some countries without transparency" and emphasized the importance of cooperation rather than "hegemony," again without specifying any particular hegemon. In our interview, in fact, Maehara stressed that China is Japan's most important market and source of imports, while Japan is China's chief source of imports and (after the United States) its second-ranking export market. "There is absolutely no change in our policy to develop relations with China further," he said. Yet the tonal change in U.S.-Japan relations is unmistakable. The clearest sign, ironically, is not that the Okinawa base issue has been settled but that it remains unresolved - and neither side is making a big deal about it. Obama is no longer delivering ultimatums or setting deadlines for its resolution. His counterpart, having replaced the hapless Hatoyama after he served less than a year in office, stresses that the alliance can't be held hostage to one disagreement. None of this guarantees smooth sailing. The DPJ holds a majority in only one of two legislative chambers, and it's not clear whether Kan can break Japan's recent pattern of replacing prime ministers on an annual basis. Japan's long-term trajectory remains problematic. But China's upward trajectory is no sure thing, and the Obama administration has seen over the past two years how autocracies such as China and Russia make for unpredictable partners. Now democratic ally Japan is offering an "unshakable Japan-U.S. alliance" as the "cornerstone of peace and stability" in Asia, as Maehara said last week. Sounds like a pretty good deal.

Gates shored up support and Japan’s mentality has changed since most of their advantages were written
Sneider 11 – associate director of the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University and a former foreign correspondent for the Christian Science Monitor (Daniel, “Getting Real on Japan,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/14/getting_real_on_japan?page=full, RBW)

Two learning curves intersected in Tokyo this week when U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates came to town, part of a Northeast Asian swing that started in Beijing and will finish in Seoul. One curve is under way in Japan, where the ruling Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) is learning the difference between campaigning and governing. Ending a half-century of nearly uninterrupted conservative rule, the DPJ came to power in September 2009 vowing to forge a more "equal" relationship with its patron ally and put more emphasis on Japan's ties with Asian neighbors, particularly China and South Korea.
The DPJ also pledged to reduce the burden of hosting U.S. bases placed on the people of Okinawa, where the bases occupy nearly a fifth of the island. The new government hoped to revisit the unimplemented 1996 agreement to move the helicopters and planes stationed at Futenma Marine air base, dangerously crowded in among apartment buildings and schools on the southern part of the island, to a new base built in its less densely populated northern half.
Since taking power, the DPJ has struggled to reconcile its electoral pledges with the reality of a serially provocative North Korea and an increasingly aggressive China. Yukio Hatoyama's inability to manage the base issue with the United States became emblematic of his weak leadership, costing him the premiership after only nine months and contributing to the party's loss of the upper house of parliament last summer.
Americans somewhat smugly congratulate Tokyo for its belated realism. Less acknowledged is Washington's own learning curve about both the realities of politics in Japan and the enduring value of the alliance. The early days of the DPJ administration were marked by barely disguised U.S. disdain for its political ineptitude and domestic troubles, and even, among some U.S. officials, expectations that a strategic condominium with China could eventually supplant the Cold War alliance with Japan.
Gates's successful role as alliance manager this week stands in stark contrast to his visit more than a year ago, in October 2009. Back then, he came to bluntly tell the Japanese to drop any talk of reopening the Okinawa base issue. "This may not be the perfect alternative for anyone," Gates said, "but it is the best alternative for everyone, and it is time to move on." He dismissed any other options as "politically untenable and operationally unworkable."
As for the alliance, Gates forcefully reminded his Japanese hosts that Americans were there to protect their country -- allowing the Japanese to spend very little on their own self-defense over the past half-century. At the same time, Obama administration officials talked openly about Japan's diminishing importance, hinting at China's potential as a new strategic partner. A senior State Department official told the Washington Post that the U.S. had "grown comfortable" with the idea of Japan as a constant in U.S. relations with the region. It no longer fills that role, he said, adding ominously that "the hardest thing right now is not China -- it's Japan."
The March 2010 sinking of a South Korean corvette, the Cheonan, shook that illusory view of the region. China's decision to back Pyongyang and its vocal opposition to U.S. naval deployments in the Yellow Sea surprised some in Washington. Meanwhile the DPJ government in Tokyo lined up strongly behind Seoul, as it did later after North Korea's shelling of Yeonpyeong Island last November. The new administration of Prime Minister Naoto Kan, Hatoyama's successor, got its own shock when Beijing purposely escalated tensions over the arrest of a Chinese fishing-boat captain following a collision near Japanese-controlled islands in the disputed oil and gas rich waters of the East China Sea.
By last fall, talk of a "strategic partnership" with China had been replaced by a new emphasis on bolstering traditional Cold War-era cooperation among Japan, South Korea, and the United States. In October, ahead of the president's visit to Japan, Assistant Secretary of State Kurt Campbell admitted that the "learning process is not confined just to Tokyo."
Campbell told reporters in Tokyo that the difficulties of the past year served as "a reminder to the United States [of] how badly we need a good relationship with Japan" to deal with the challenges in Asia. "It is critical for this generation of American policymakers to in no way take Japan for granted," he said, in an obvious swipe at more Sino-centric colleagues back in Washington.
Those two learning curves visibly crossed during Gates's visit to Tokyo this week. The Kan administration, fresh off talks in Seoul about strengthening security ties, showed much greater readiness to cooperate on regional security. It is ready to ease restrictions on export to third countries of missile-defense technology jointly developed by the two countries, a move the United States has sought.
Gates offered his own upbeat vision of a renewed Japan-U.S. alliance in the 21st century:
"While issues associated with Okinawa and Futenma have tended to dominate the headlines this past year," Gates told the press, "the U.S.-Japan defense alliance is broader, deeper, and indeed richer than any single issue. In this, the 51st year of the U.S.-Japan alliance, it is important to remember that ours is an enduring and equal partnership based on interests and values that unite our two peoples."

Basing issues not key
Daniel 10 – Department of Defense [Lisa, March 5/18, American Forces Press Service, http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=58392]

The strength of U.S.-Japan security relations can be seen in the totality of its 50-year relationship and progress moving forward, Michael Schiffer, deputy assistant defense secretary for East Asia, told the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Japan’s desire to relocate U.S. Marines on Okinawa, the government’s recent halt of refueling operations in the Indian Ocean and other disagreements do not match deeper challenges the alliance faced in years past and have not prevented the two countries from moving forward, Schiffer said in prepared testimony to the committee. Public support for the alliance is high in both countries, and bilateral relations are strong on nuclear nonproliferation and missile defense, reconstruction in Afghanistan and stability in Pakistan, counter-piracy efforts and preserving open sea lines of communication, Schiffer said.

Cooperation inevitable—disputes won’t manifest in a weaker alliance
Bader 10 Jeffrey 6/7, Senior fellow at Brookings- Director of the John L. Thornton China Center, 6/7/10 [Keynote Speech: US-Japan Alliance at 50: Toward a Reenergized Partnership” http://stimson.org/japan/pdf/Transcript_Jeff_Bader.pdf]

The sinking of the South Korean naval vessel, Cheonan, by North Korea served as a dramatic reminder that Northeast Asia is still “a dangerous neighborhood.” The Japanese Cabinet noticed. The Japanese government also experienced some difficulties in its relationship with China, in which it had invested a considerable amount. The DPJ has come to understand with increasing clarity that others in the region have been watching closely the U.S.-Japan alliance, and Japan could not afford the impression of a rift to “gain traction.” It turns out that all politics is not 100 percent local, as it had been seen in Japan for some months before then. The decision came against a series of other policy decisions by the Japanese government that demonstrate that the alliance is about more than basing issues. Japan has allocated $900 million in its current budget towards a multi-year, $5 billion, pledge to the Afghan Army and police, including for rehabilitation and training of demobilized Taliban and important development projects. Japan, like the United States, believes that peace and security in Afghanistan depend significantly on stability in Pakistan, and Tokyo has pledged $1 billion in assistance to Pakistan and hosted a major pledging conference. Japan has strongly backed the Republic of Korea, in the face of aggression from the North, in the wake of the Cheonan incident. Its solidarity with South Korea has been firm and public. Japan has sought trilateral cooperation with the U.S. and South Korea, and taken a leading role in fashioning a UN Security Council response. As a member of the UN Security Council, this year, Japan is supporting the U.S.–led draft of a resolution on Iran. Prime Minister Kan – Prime Minister to be Kan – indeed reiterated that support in his first conversation with President Obama, this past week. Japan’s leadership has made clear recently that it favors U.S. participation in an eventual East Asian Community, a change taken from the DPJ position last fall. Japan strongly supported President Obama’s initiatives in the April Nuclear Security Summit and worked closely with the U.S. delegation at the NPT Review Conference in May. So, nine months after the DPJ’s electoral victory, the scorecard, from the U.S. perspective, at last, is positive and improving. There has been lots of attention to what a rough ride it has been, to the precipitous decline in Hatoyama’s polling numbers and, ultimately, his demise, his political demise, to the difficulties of the DPJ government in “getting its feet under it.” And now the – as I said – the resignation. I’ll leave to experts on Japan the analysis of these, but from the viewpoint of the U.S., the larger issue, in conclusion, is this: That Japan has gone through the single most dramatic political change in 50 years – after 50 years of stasis in party rule, and the U.S.-Japan alliance has emerged in sound condition, having been scrutinized and ultimately validated by the new political leadership. This is, in one sense, not surprising, since 80 percent of all Japanese, in polling, support the alliance.** That is the indispensible foundation for the alliance. 

No impact to the alliance
Anthony DiFilippo, Prof. Sociology at Lincoln University, 2002, The Challenges of the U.S.-Japan Military Arrangement: Competing Security Transitions in a Changing International Environment, pg. 13 

One thing that has not changed about the U.S.-Japan security alliance in the fifty years that it has existed is that it is supposed to have maintained regional stability. If stability is defined as a state where war or the high level threat of war does not exist, then the alliance has not been terribly effective. Although the Soviet Union never attacked Japan during the Cold War, other serious destabilizing forces have appeared despite the continued existence of the bilateral alliance. The Korean War, which began in June 1950, did not end after the signing of the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty in 1951 nor after the accord went into effect in 1952. The alliance did not prevent China from developing nuclear weapons-hardly a stabilizing event in the region. The U.S.-Japan alliance did not prevent or end the Vietnam War. More recently, the U.S.-Japan security alliance did not stop the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) from beginning a nuclear weapons program in the early 1990s, thwart Pyongyang's missile development efforts, or discourage it from launching a projectile over Japan without prior notice in August 1998. With the bilateral alliance in effect for decades, China went ahead with nuclear testing in 1995 to assure that its nuclear arsenal was capable of neutralizing the threats it perceives from the other nuclear powers.

No gridlock now
Abraham 2-11-11, David, Mr. Abraham is a Hitachi international affairs fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and previously worked as a sovereign analyst at Lehman Brothers. “Reviving Japan Can Prime Minister Naoto Kan reopen the world's third largest economy to competition?” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704132204576135680778755452.html nh)

Late last month in Davos, Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan proclaimed 2011 to be the "third opening of Japan." It was an attempt to equate his agenda to the great waves of transformation that swept the country in the mid-19th century and in the years after World War II. That will sound hyperbolic to anyone familiar with economically moribund, politically fragmented Japan. But his aspirations should not be dismissed out of hand. Mr. Kan's statement might at first seem unduly optimistic given recent history. Japan's leaders are prone to big statements and slow action. For instance, under pressure from trading partners to promote domestic consumption in 1986, a group led by Bank of Japan President Haruo Maekawa produced a strategy to reduce the country's dependence on export growth at the behest of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone. Implementing that strategy proceeded slowly though. More recent still, even a popular and unconventional politician like Junichiro Koizumi struggled to implement lasting reforms during his tenure from 2001-06. Yet despite the normal headwinds and Mr. Kan's own relative inexperience as a leader, the current prime minister has managed to push forward some substantive changes. That includes progress toward passage of a five-percentage-point cut in the top corporate tax rate, which currently stands at 40%, and various incentives for small businesses and foreign investors. The tax cuts are part of a multi-year strategy to reduce rates in stages to competitive levels of 25% to 30%, if bureaucrats at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry have their way. The incentives for foreign direct investment—extending preferential tax rates for certain global companies willing to open headquarters or research centers in Japan and tax deferments for executive stock options—are the first direct moves specifically favoring international investors. The recent changes are no cure-all for Japan's woes. Corporate taxes at 35% will still be high compared to South Korea's at 24% and Singapore's at 17%. The investment-promotion bill has some shortcomings, including retaining the need for unnecessary bureaucratic certification of investment plans. The focus on attracting global firms misses opportunities to support the small- and medium-sized local companies that ought to be growth drivers. It would be a mistake, however, to make the perfect the enemy of the good. Despite those specific shortcomings, Mr. Kan is showing that he understands Japan has a competitiveness problem, and that he has at least some capacity to address it. The clearest and most significant example of that is Mr. Kan's aggressive support for Japan's participation in negotiations for a Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal that would include the U.S. and many of Japan's Asian trading partners. Although negotiations are ongoing and Japan hasn't formally entered talks yet, the stated goal is a deal that would not only ease the flow of goods among the parties but also would clarify investment and competition policies across signatory nations. That would involve, for instance, opening government procurement to foreign firms. It could also tear down barriers to foreign investment. This could be a key way to pry open Japan's restrictive environment for mergers and acquisitions and private equity, while promoting better corporate governance. Indeed, merely discussing TPP is already having an effect in spurring Japanese to question certain long-held views about the economy. Eyes are opening to the potential fiscal benefits of boosting competition and foreign investment, given that about two-thirds of Japanese companies currently are so unprofitable they pay no taxes. Others are speculating that opening to foreign firms and creating new channels for foreign capital to finance Japanese start-ups could lead to greater female workforce participation. The debate over TPP also is sparking a debate about Japanese domestic politics. Japanese companies are intrigued by the possibilities for greater market access abroad that TPP would bring. Yet farmers, who make up less than 3% of the population, have disproportionate political sway to block a deal thanks to quirks in how parliamentary representation is apportioned. Agricultural protectionism has long been a barrier to trade progress in Japan, and Mr. Kan's advocacy for TPP is starting to cast a spotlight on the issue. People are noticing that nearby Korea overcame its own farm lobby to push forward with trade deals with the U.S. and the European Union—deals that could give Koreans better access to those markets than the Japanese currently enjoy. No doubt Mr. Kan still has a tough sell to make on TPP, despite the early positive murmurs. But his tax and regulatory policies suggest he's serious about addressing Japan's malaise. And the fact that he has restarted trade talks with Australia, and possibly the EU, also augurs well. Those deals might be easier to pitch domestically since they would be less comprehensive and, therefore, less threatening. But signing them would build political momentum for TPP. Mr. Kan probably overpromised when he described all this as a "third opening." It's unlikely we're in for any changes quite that dramatic. But he's starting the right debates and making the right kind of progress. With deft politicking and some luck, he might accomplish more than many have thought possible.


====1nc Deterrence advantage==== 


No kickout—even if they win uniqueness
Feffer 2010 – co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies (6/24, John, FPIF, “Right-wing Loonies Support Okinawa Base Relocation”, http://www.fpif.org/blog/right-wing_loonies_support_okinawa_base_relocation?q=Tag%3Ainternet, WEA)

This was a curious string of half-truths and misrepresentations. Only the first sentence is correct. There is indeed a heated debate. But it’s not about expelling the U.S. military from Japan. It’s very specifically about the building of a new U.S. base in Okinawa to replace the Futenma facility. The campaign focused very narrowly on preventing this new base – not on closing other U.S. bases on Okinawa much less U.S. bases elsewhere in Japan. The Japanese media has actively reported on this narrow campaign, not on the imaginary campaign to expel the U.S. military from Japan.

The plan results in total pullout
Feffer 10, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, ’10 (John, Mar. 6, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html, twm)

Wherever the US military puts down its foot overseas, movements have sprung up to protest the military, social, and environmental consequences of its military bases. This anti-base movement has notched some successes, such as the shut-down of a US navy facility in Vieques, Puerto Rico, in 2003. In the Pacific, too, the movement has made its mark. On the heels of the eruption of Mt Pinatubo, democracy activists in the Philippines successfully closed down the ash-covered Clark Air Force Base and Subic Bay Naval Station in 1991-1992. Later, South Korean activists managed to win closure of the huge Yongsan facility in downtown Seoul. Of course, these were only partial victories. Washington subsequently negotiated a Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines, whereby the US military has redeployed troops and equipment to the island, and replaced Korea's Yongsan base with a new one in nearby Pyeongtaek. But these not-in-my-backyard (NIMBY) victories were significant enough to help edge the Pentagon toward the adoption of a military doctrine that emphasizes mobility over position. The US military now relies on "strategic flexibility" and "rapid response" both to counter unexpected threats and to deal with allied fickleness. The Hatoyama government may indeed learn to say no to Washington over the Okinawa bases. Evidently considering this a likelihood, former deputy secretary of state and former US ambassador to Japan Richard Armitage has said that the United States "had better have a plan B". But the victory for the anti-base movement will still be only partial. US forces will remain in Japan, and especially Okinawa, and Tokyo will undoubtedly continue to pay for their maintenance. Buoyed by even this partial victory, however, NIMBY movements are likely to grow in Japan and across the region, focusing on other Okinawa bases, bases on the Japanese mainland, and elsewhere in the Pacific, including Guam. Indeed, protests are already building in Guam against the projected expansion of Andersen Air Force Base and Naval Base Guam to accommodate those Marines from Okinawa. And this strikes terror in the hearts of Pentagon planners. In World War II, the United States employed an island-hopping strategy to move ever closer to the Japanese mainland. Okinawa was the last island and last major battle of that campaign, and more people died during the fighting there than in the subsequent atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined: 12,000 US troops, more than 100,000 Japanese soldiers, and perhaps 100,000 Okinawan civilians. This historical experience has stiffened the pacifist resolve of Okinawans. The current battle over Okinawa again pits the United States against Japan, again with the Okinawans as victims. But there is a good chance that the Okinawans, like the Na'vi in that great NIMBY film Avatar, will win this time. A victory in closing Futenma and preventing the construction of a new base might be the first step in a potential reverse island hop. NIMBY movements may someday finally push the US military out of Japan and off Okinawa. It's not likely to be a smooth process, nor is it likely to happen any time soon. But the kanji (a form of Japanese writing) is on the wall. Even if the Yankees don't know what the Japanese characters mean, they can at least tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing.

Carriers fail
Santoli 6 (Al, Pulitzer Prize nominated author and Founder of the Asia America Initiative, China In Focus - Number 14 : China Targets America's "Acupuncture Points", 10-24, http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/cif-14-2006.htm)

"Aircraft carrier battle groups are the mainstay of US military and protect commerce supremacy which is primarily through ocean-transit. They serve as America’s chief instrument for global power projection and world dominance. In this capability, the US has no equal. At the moment, the US maintains a total of 12 aircraft carrier battle groups. In comparison, China has none. However, China’s strategy in defeating the superior by the inferior is shashaojian or the "assassin’s mace". "Mace" is not only a blinding spray; it is also a meaner and deadlier weapon, a spiked war club of ancient times used to knock out an adversary with one blow. The spikes of the modern Chinese mace may well spell the end for aircraft carriers. The first of these spikes consists of medium- and short-range ballistic missiles (modified and improved DF 21s/CSS-5 and DF 15s) with terminally guided maneuverable re-entry vehicles with circular error probability of 10 meters. DF 21s/CSS-5s can hit slow-moving targets at sea up to 2,500km away. The second spike is an array of supersonic and highly accurate cruise missiles, some with range of 300km or more, that can be delivered by submarines, aircraft, surface ships or even common trucks (which are ideal for use in terrain like that of Iran along the Persian Gulf). These supersonic cruise missiles travel at more than twice the speed of sound (mach 2.5), or faster than a rifle bullet. They can be armed with conventional, anti-radiation, thermobaric, or electro-magnetic pulse warheads, or even nuclear warheads if need be. The Aegis missile defense system and the Phalanx Close-in Defense weapons of the US Navy are ineffective against these supersonic cruise missiles. A barrage of these cruise missiles, followed by land-based intermediate- or short-range ballistic missiles with terminal guidance systems, could wreak havoc on an aircraft carrier battle group. Whether there are seven or 15 carrier battle groups, it will not matter, for China has enough ballistic and cruise missiles to destroy them all. The first and second spikes of the "assassin’s mace" are sufficient to render the aircraft carrier battle groups obsolete. But there is a third spike which is equally dreadful. This is the deadly SHKVAL or "Squall" rocket torpedo developed by Russia and passed on to China. It is like an under-water missile. Its high speed makes evasive maneuvers by carriers or nuclear submarines highly difficult. It is truly a submarine and carrier buster. The "assassin’s mace" has still more spikes. The fourth spike consists of extra-large, bottom-rising, rocket-propelled sea mines laid by submarines along the projected paths of advancing carrier battle groups. These sea mines are designed specifically for targeting aircraft carriers. They can be grouped in clusters so that they will hit the carriers in barrages. The final spike of the mace is a fleet of old fighter aircraft (China has thousands of them) modified as unmanned combat aerial vehicles fitted with extra fuel tanks and armed with stand-off anti-ship missiles. They are also packed with high explosives so that after firing off their precision-guided anti-ship missiles on the battle group, they will then finish their mission by dive-bombing "kamikaze" style into their targets. If we now combine the mace as a means of blinding an adversary and the mace as a spiked war club, one can see the complete picture of how China will use the "assassin’s mace." Although China does not possess a single operational aircraft carrier, it has converted their entire navy into a "virtual aircraft carrier" that is unsinkable and capable of devastating aircraft carrier battle groups that the US and its allies can muster."

Carriers aren’t needed anyway
Work, 9 (2/17, Robert, VP of Strategic Studies @ Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Strategy for the Long Haul: the US Navy Charting A Course for Tomorrow’s Fleet”, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti.pdf)

On August 1, 2008, the TSBF numbered 280 ships of all types (see Figure One).3 Predictably, naval advocates fretted that the smaller fleet posed a great risk to US national security. For example, Seth Cropsey, a Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy in the Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations, cautioned that, “Without intending it, US policy is verging toward unilateral naval disarmament.”4 He went on to say: The Navy’s focus is [unclear]. Its [280] combat ships — a number that House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton called “shocking” — comprise a force that is less than half the size achieved during the Reagan years . . . The last time the US possessed so small a fleet was sometime between December 1916 and April 1917, on the eve of the nation’s entry into World War I. While technically true, these dire comments are misleading. Of the many ways to gauge US naval power, comparing the size of the current US battle force to that of past US fleets is the least useful. Past TSBFs are reflections of different strategic environments, federal budgets, national grand strategies, and stages of technological development. They also reflect the state of the contemporary global naval competition. In 1916, although the TSBF numbered only 245 ships of all types, the 36 battleships of the Navy’s battle line placed it second among world navies behind the British Royal Navy. Despite having “only” 245 ships, it could safely assume it would never have to fight the Royal Navy, and be relatively confident that it could fight and defeat any other navy in the world. During the 1980s, even as it grew to a post-Vietnam high of nearly 600 vessels, the Navy was fighting off a concerted effort by the Soviet Navy to knock it out of the top spot.5 In other words, whether today’s TSBF is as big as the US fleets in 1916 or 1987 is utterly irrelevant. Far more important is the answer to the following question: how does the US Navy stack up against its potential contemporary competitors? And the answer to this question paints a very different picture than comparing today’s TSBF with that of past US fleets. SECOND TO NONE The first true indicator of US naval dominance comes from comparing the size of the US battle force with other world navies. What alarmists over fleet size fail to mention is that although the US TSBF is the smallest it has been in over ninety years, so too are the rest of the world’s navies.6 At the height of its naval dominance, Great Britain strove to achieve at least a “two-navy standard.” That is, the Royal Navy aimed to maintain a fleet and battle line that was as large as the combined fleets of the two closest naval powers. Today, counting those ships that can perform naval fire and maneuver in distant theaters — aviation platforms of all types, tactical submarines (nuclear and diesel-electric attack boats and conventional guided-missile submarines), and surface combatants and amphibious ships with full load displacements greater than 2,000 tons7 — the next two largest contemporary navies belong to Russia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Together, they operate a total of 215 warships of all types. The US Navy alone operates 203 such warships, very close to, but not quite, a two-navy standard.8 However, when factoring in a second important indicator of naval power — aggregate fleet displacement (tonnage) — the US Navy enjoys considerably more than a two-navy standard. As naval analyst Geoffrey Till explains, “[t]here is a rough correlation between the ambitions of a navy and the size and individual fighting capacity of its main units, provided they are properly maintained and manned.”9 Therefore, full load displacements and aggregate fleet warship displacements are the best proxies available to measure a ship’s and a fleet’s overall combat capability, respectively. Accordingly, both are useful measures for sizing up the contemporary global hierarchy of naval competitors.10 When considering aggregate fleet displacements, the US Navy’s overwhelming advantage in combat capability is readily apparent. Besides the United States, there are only twenty navies in the world that operate fleets with aggregate displacements of 50,000 tons or more. In order of fleet displacement (largest to smallest), these navies are operated by: Russia, the PRC, Japan, the United Kingdom, France, India, Taiwan, Italy, Indonesia, Spain, South Korea, Brazil, Turkey, Australia, Greece, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Peru, and Singapore. Together, these twenty navies operate a total of 719 ships with a combined displacement of 3,632,270 tons.11 In comparison, the combined displacement of the US Navy’s 203 fighting warships totals 3,121,014 tons — which exceeds the total tonnage of warships operated by the next thirteen navies combined. In other words, in terms of overall fleet combat capability, the US Navy enjoys a thirteen-navy standard. However, it is important to note that of the twenty countries discussed above, eighteen are formal US allies (Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom), governments friendly to the United States, (Peru, Brazil, Indonesia, and Singapore), or emerging strategic partners (India). Moreover, all of these nations are either full or partial democracies. The likelihood of the United States ever finding itself in a war or naval confrontation with any of these countries is extremely remote. Indeed, if anything, during times of crisis the US Navy can normally count on receiving important naval contributions from some or all of these nations. At the turn of the twentieth century, the officers of the British Royal Navy concluded that they would never again fight the US Navy, and could remove its rapidly expanding fleet from calculations over the minimal two-navy standard. Similarly, eight years after the turn of the twenty-first century, the US can confidently exclude these eighteen navies from its naval force planning calculations. This is the implicit message of the Navy’s recently published Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, which seeks to foster and sustain cooperative maritime relationships with more international partners.12

Hegemony isn’t key anymore. Rivalry, stability, and deterrence internals are all false
Friedman 10—research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html, AMiles)

Another argument for high military spending is that U.S. military hegemony underlies global stability. Our forces and alliance commitments dampen conflict between potential rivals like China and Japan, we are told, preventing them from fighting wars that would disrupt trade and cost us more than the military spending that would have prevented war. The theoretical and empirical foundation for this claim is weak. It overestimates both the American military's contribution to international stability and the danger that instability abroad poses to Americans. In Western Europe, U.S. forces now contribute little to peace, at best making the tiny odds of war among states there slightly more so.7 Even in Asia, where there is more tension, the history of international relations suggests that without U.S. military deployments potential rivals, especially those separated by sea like Japan and China, will generally achieve a stable balance of power rather than fight. In other cases, as with our bases in Saudi Arabia between the Iraq wars, U.S. forces probably create more unrest than they prevent. Our force deployments can also generate instability by prompting states to develop nuclear weapons. Even when wars occur, their economic impact is likely to be limited here.8 By linking markets, globalization provides supply alternatives for the goods we consume, including oil. If political upheaval disrupts supply in one location, suppliers elsewhere will take our orders. Prices may increase, but markets adjust. That makes American consumers less dependent on any particular supply source, undermining the claim that we need to use force to prevent unrest in supplier nations or secure trade routes.9 Part of the confusion about the value of hegemony comes from misunderstanding the Cold War. People tend to assume, falsely, that our activist foreign policy, with troops forward supporting allies, not only caused the Soviet Union's collapse but is obviously a good thing even without such a rival. Forgotten is the sensible notion that alliances are a necessary evil occasionally tolerated to balance a particularly threatening enemy. The main justification for creating our Cold War alliances was the fear that Communist nations could conquer or capture by insurrection the industrial centers in Western Europe and Japan and then harness enough of that wealth to threaten us — either directly or by forcing us to become a garrison state at ruinous cost. We kept troops in South Korea after 1953 for fear that the North would otherwise overrun it. But these alliances outlasted the conditions that caused them. During the Cold War, Japan, Western Europe and South Korea grew wealthy enough to defend themselves. We should let them. These alliances heighten our force requirements and threaten to drag us into wars, while providing no obvious benefit.

Peaceful transition—no scenario for war
Ikenberry 2008 – Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton (John, Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West”, ProQuest, WEA)

That course, however, is not inevitable. The rise of China does not have to trigger a wrenching hegemonic transition. The U.S.-Chinese power transition can be very different from those of the past because China faces an international order that is fundamentally different from those that past rising states confronted. China does not just face the United States; it faces a Western-centered system that is open, integrated, and rule-based, with wide and deep political foundations. The nuclear revolution, meanwhile, has made war among great powers unlikely -- eliminating the major tool that rising powers have used to overturn international systems defended by declining hegemonic states. Today's Western order, in short, is hard to overturn and easy to join.







===Korea neg - NDCA=== 

====1nc Deterrence DA==== 

Deterrence!
Richardson, 2006 [Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]

Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of US Forces Korea (USFK) have been around for decades. After years of a South Korean administration generally hostile to US regional objectives and priorities, perhaps the rumors are finally becoming a reality. That would be a tragedy for both sides. If the US were to leave Korea, how would US influence in the region be altered? How would Korea's relationships with China and Japan change? What about the strengthening US-Japan alliance? What if North Korea collapsed? These questions have largely escaped critical consideration in the current debate. Despite President Roh Moo-hyun's stunning obliviousness to political and security realities, South Korea would be particularly vulnerable without USFK, or even with a token force left in place. For its part, the US cannot realistically expect to maintain or improve its ability to exert regional influence by leaving Korea. Like US Forces Japan (USFJ), America's Korean contingent helps prevent conflict by acting as a strong deterrent for any nation that might consider military actions or threats, at the same time moderating the responses of the host nation in tense situations. Obviously, the original purpose of the US-South Korea alliance was to counter the North Korean threat. However, as that threat has waned, a more important, diplomatically incorrect mission has evolved in addition to deterring North Korea: ensuring stability among China, Japan and Korea. The North Korean threat is nonetheless the reason for the majority of South Korea's defenses, even if Seoul won't say so in defense white papers. No conventional military calculus suggests the possibility of a North Korean victory in a second Korean War, but a weaker South Korean military could cause Pyongyang to miscalculate. South Korea's defenses must remain strong. Regional tensions, but stability Even with USFK in Korea, issues from the region's long and often confrontational history cause tensions to flare. Chinese claims that Koguryo, an ancient ethnically Korean kingdom whose territories extended into present-day China, was in fact a Chinese kingdom have raised Korean hackles on several occasions. The move is viewed as the possible groundwork for justifying a Chinese invasion of the northern half of the peninsula, perhaps to "help" a North Korea on the verge of implosion, or after collapse. China's plans to register Mount Baekdu (Changbai in Chinese) as a Chinese historical site with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Geopark list was also viewed as a possible prelude to claiming North Korean territory. The mountain, sacred to both sides, straddles the border. A 1962 agreement between the two countries split ownership of the mountain. This view is bolstered by the fact that China prefers to retain border buffer zones and would not relish having a reunified Korea, potentially with US forces just across the Yalu River. South Korea could not prevent China from sending troops into North Korea, and the US likely would not risk war with China over North Korea. Japan's colonial domination of Korea from 1910 to 1945 has left a deep and bitter resentment in both Koreas that is apt to provoke emotional and drastic responses. One high-profile manifestation of this is the decades-long dispute over the ownership of some relatively insignificant islets in the waters between the peninsula and the archipelago, the Liancourt Rocks. Known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, South Korea has stationed a Coast Guard contingent on the island since 1954 to enforce its claim. Both nations claim the area as a part of their exclusive economic zones (EEZs). In 2005 South Korea scrambled fighters to intercept a civilian Japanese Cessna aircraft nearing Dokdo airspace. When Japan announced plans to conduct a hydrographic survey of the area, South Korea made vague threats alluding to possible military action against the research vessels. Japan backed down. Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's numerous visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's war dead including some convicted war criminals, have raised diplomatic tensions with both South Korea and China on several occasions, including a temporary recall of South Korea's ambassador in Japan. Ripe for an arms race South Korea wants to be the "hub" of something in East Asia, and it may finally have its chance, thanks to the Roh administration. The current US-South Korea situation is a case of "be careful of what you ask for because you might get it". Even so, the psychological impact on South Korea of a significant USFK departure likely would not be immediate but should not be underestimated. A massive reduction of US troop levels and capabilities could have the same effect as a complete withdrawal on Seoul's planning processes. It might begin with regretful concern, but could quickly become panic. At this point it should be noted that even if the USFK withdraws from Korea, some sort of collaborative security agreement will remain in place. However, South Korea's perception of America's commitment to security on the peninsula is the decisive factor in how it will react to real and perceived threats. What are now relatively minor disagreements with Japan and China would take on a more serious dimension. Without USFK, South Korea would need to vastly increase its defense budget to make up for functions long taken for granted. With American forces on its soil as a safety net, South Korea didn't have to be overly concerned with being attacked or invaded. Many Koreans would perceive that era over. Another factor is the closer US-Japan security partnership, which causes both China and South Korea concern. Some in the South Korean defense sector are undoubtedly jealous of the relationship Japan enjoys with the US. Japan would also need to take into consideration a South Korea without the moderating influence of USFK, although the role of USFJ in Japan would reduce much concern. In such an environment it's not unthinkable that a few minor skirmishes could occur, between South Korean and Japanese navel vessels in the vicinity of Dokdo, for example. This would be the slow start of a regional arms race, with Korea and Japan joining China's ongoing buildup. A reunified Korea could go nuclear North Korea is the wildcard. If in the next few years reunification were to occur - through a North Korean collapse, the death of Kim Jong-il, or a possible but unlikely mutual agreement - South Korea would suddenly find itself straddled with the enormous cost of integrating North Korea. These costs would dwarf the already massive increase South Korea would have been undertaking in defense spending, something it would clearly be unprepared and unable to accomplish while maintaining its defense investment. A Korea faced with an economic dilemma of such magnitude would find maintaining its conventional military forces at current levels impossible. At the same time, it would feel more vulnerable than ever, even with US security assurances. For a nation paranoid about the possibility of outside influence or military intervention, strapped for cash, and obsessed about its position in the international hierarchy, the obvious route might be to either incorporate North Korean nuclear devices (if they actually exist), or build their own, something South Korean technicians could easily accomplish. North Korea, after all, has set the example for economically challenged nations looking for the ultimate in deterrence. One might argue that clear and firm US security guarantees for a reunified Korea would be able to dissuade any government from choosing the nuclear option. If making decisions based purely on logic the answer would be probably yes. Unfortunately, the recent Korean leadership has established a record of being motivated more by emotional and nationalistic factors than logical or realistic ones. Antics over Dokdo and the Yasukuni Shrine and alienating the US serve as examples. But the continuation of the "Sunshine Policy" tops those. Instead of admitting they've been sold a dead horse, the Roh administration continued riding the rotting and bloated beast known as the Sunshine Policy, until all that are left today are a pile of bones, a bit of dried skin, and a few tufts of dirty hair. Roh, however, is still in the saddle, if not as firmly after North Korea's recent missile tests. Japan must then consider its options in countering an openly nuclear, reunified Korea without USFK. Already building momentum to change its constitution to clarify its military, it's not inconceivable that Japan would ultimately consider going nuclear to deter Korea. As in South Korea, there is no technological barrier preventing Japan from building nuclear weapons. While the details of the race and escalation of tensions can vary in any number of ways and are not inevitable, that an arms race would occur is probable. Only the perception of threat and vulnerability need be present for this to occur. East Asia could become a nuclear powder keg ready to explode over something as childish as the Dokdo/Takeshima dispute between Korea and Japan, a Diaoyu/Senkakus dispute between China and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. The arms race need not occur One could argue that the US would be able to step in and moderate things before such an escalation could occur. Considering the recent US record on influencing either North or South Korea, it is perhaps unwise to count on it being able to do so at some crucial point in the future. One could also argue that the US need not be involved in a future East Asian war. Like assuming there is no need for USFK since North Korea is considered less of a threat to Seoul, that is wishful thinking. The US has too many political and diplomatic ties, aside from alliance obligations, to ignore such a war. For American policymakers, the notion that a withdrawal is a deserved payback for the rampant anti-Americanism in South Korea, or that the few billion we spend on defense there is a catastrophic waste, need to be discarded. The potential cost of a war would be far greater in both American lives and in dollars, the benefits of continued peace immeasurable. Vastly reducing or withdrawing USFK can only harm US security, it cannot help it. USFK has helped maintain peace and allowed the US to project influence in the region for the past six decades; removing that presence would be foolish and difficult to replicate once done. It is also important to keep in mind that the next presidential election will likely result in a less anti-American administration. South Korean policymakers and citizens alike need to come to terms with the fact that Korea will probably never be a powerful nation, but because of its location it will always be important in the geopolitical sense. Because of this, Korea can never take the middle ground or play a "balancing" role; Korea must choose sides. Finally, the reality that both American and South Korean policymakers need to come to terms with is that USFK deterring a second North Korean invasion has become a secondary mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.

American posture in Asia is stable, but withdrawal upsets the balance and make war likely
Hellyer, 2009 [Marcus, Centre for Defence and Strategic Studies Australian Defence College, “Is the Expansion of Chinese Military Capability a Threat to the Stability of the Western Pacific?” http://www.defence.gov.au/adc/docs/Publications/Shedden%20Papers%202009/CDSS_shedden_Hellyer_China.pdf]

Uncertainties and ‘Strategic Shocks’ This is not to say that the ultimate purpose of Chinese military modernisation does not present uncertainties. The United States has complained about lack of transparency in China’s defence strategy and budget. Moreover Chinese doctrine can appear quite belligerent; the US Department of Defence argues that Chinese doctrine appears to leave open the idea of pre‐emption.25 Chinese language hints at growing global tensions. Its latest Defence White Paper states that ‘struggles for strategic resources, strategic locations and strategic dominance have intensified…international military competition is becoming increasingly intense.’26 Nevertheless, if China’s broader policy of peaceful development continues, its military modernisation should not be destabilising in the foreseeable future. Even so, the occurrence of strategic shocks that could spark regional instability cannot be ruled out. While by their nature strategic shocks are difficult to predict or define, perhaps the most destabilising event would be a US withdrawal from western Pacific. The absence of US military forces would force regional states to reassess the adequacy of their own military expenditure and posture.27 Moreover the absence of US naval forces guaranteeing the global commons of secure sea lanes could encourage regional nations to assert control themselves. China’s economic rise has benefited immensely from US protection of freedom of navigation – if China was forced to secure its sea lanes of communication itself, it could be drawn into conflict with other nations concerned about Chinese maritime encroachment.28 Also, long‐standing nationalist tensions over unresolved territorial disputes could reignite – even those that do not involve China. So far, there have so far been no signs of a US withdrawal. In fact the US has been restructuring its force dispositions in Korea and Japan to make them more sustainable and arguably more capable and responsive in an East Asian conflict. Also the Obama administration has reaffirmed the key planks of the San Francisco system and US alliances with key states such as Japan, South Korea and Australia are as strong as ever. But a strategic shock that forces a US withdrawal cannot be ruled out. This could be precipitated by heavy US casualties in a conflict with China over Taiwan, for example.

Ditching Korea weakens regional balance of power
Jacob Heilbrunn, The National Interest staff writer, 11/23/2010, "North Korea's Brinkmanship," http://nationalinterest.org/node/4466, access 11/26/10

Chalmers Johnson, who died on Saturday, argued that America should never be there in the first place. It's not our problem whether or not South Korea gets its World Cup and our assistance is breeding a form of infantilism in the South. Why should the South be our welfare ward, especially at a moment when the American economy is crumbling?
Pack up the bases. Scram. Let the locals deal with their own problems. It's an understandable impulse and Johnson pointed acutely to the excesses of American empire. But if America pulled out, a vacuum would develop in the region. The optimistic scenario would be that China becomes a benevolent regional hegemon, enforcing order. But the risk--a very big one--is that the whole region would get sucked into war, including Japan. For now America is the pacifier.

The plan causes regional war and power vacuum—cutting presence undermines bet hedging and US position
Weitz 2011 – Asia-Pacific strategic and security issues columnist for The Diplomat, director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis and a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (1/11, Richard, The Diplomat, “The US keeps hedging over China”, http://the-diplomat.com/2011/01/11/why-us-keeps-hedging-over-china/)

Yet these policies should be seen less as an effort to contain China and more as a return to the kind of shaping and hedging policies that the Bill Clinton administration pursued on many security issues, especially relations with Russia. The principle behind this approach is that it will help shape the targeted actor’s choices so that it will pursue policies helpful to the United States and its allies. In the case of China, these policies would include not threatening to use force against other countries, moderating its trade and climate polices and generally embracing and supporting the existing international institutions and the global status quo. On the flip side, if these shaping policies fail, then the United States aims to be in a good position, thanks to its strategic hedging, to resist disruptive Chinese policies until China abandons them. In many cases, Washington is fortunate that policies such as strengthening security ties with Japan or India contribute to both shaping and hedging. For example, conducting joint military exercises with South Korea can both encourage Chinese leaders uncomfortable seeing US aircraft carriers sailing in the Yellow Sea to apply more pressure on North Korea to rein in its threatening behavior, while also hedging against the eventuality that Chinese pressure might fail. From Washington’s perspective, hedging against China makes perfect sense. After all, US security objectives in East Asia include ensuring freedom of navigation, averting destabilizing regional arms races and disputes, and above all preserving stability by preventing the use of force to alter the status quo. China, meanwhile, is the most prominent Asian military power with the potential to threaten these goals. Even if ultimately unsuccessful, a Chinese attack against Taiwan or use of force in the South China Sea would disrupt East Asian commerce, heighten regional tensions and encourage arms races. In addition, aggression in the Pacific could also compromise US alliances if Washington's failure to react led East Asian countries to fear either abandonment or entrapment in a conflict with China. But a more visible US presence in the region doesn’t mean Chinese leaders don’t have their own reasons why they might be inclined to challenge the status quo—balance-of-power considerations, economic resource needs, domestic political considerations, or perceived infringements on China's sovereignty or status could all put pressure on them to act. And, while China’s sudden adoption of more aggressive policies last year surprised many observers, we shouldn’t forget that during the last century, China rapidly and radically altered its policies towards several important foreign policy issues. Most spectacularly, Beijing shifted from allying with the USSR against the United States in the 1950s, to hostile neutrality toward both superpowers in the 1960s, to a defence alignment with Washington against Moscow in the 1970s and 1980s, to a policy of wary cooperation with Russia and restrained antagonism toward the United States in the 1990s. In some respects, China presents to Asia the same kind of challenge that Germany represented to Europe from 1870 to 1945. China’s huge population and dynamic economy provide it with immense military potential, making it a natural aspirant for regional hegemony and forcing many of its weaker neighbours to seek the help of an external balancer. And China also shares elements of the second dimension of the former ‘German problem’: its authoritarian political leaders seem dissatisfied with their country's place in the existing Western-dominated Asia-Pacific international system. These two factors—China's potential military dominance and its possible revisionist foreign policy—mean that other Asian countries and Washington have no choice but to consider how to avert a potential Chinese drive for regional hegemony. Even a failed Chinese grasp for Asian primacy would risk triggering a military confrontation with the United States and other countries—as well as severely damaging the Pacific economy. Yet if Washington were to stand aside, it would undermine its credibility as a guarantor of East Asian stability. Against this backdrop, other countries—notably Japan and South Korea—might respond by seeking to bolster their security by acquiring nuclear weapons, which would further undermine regional stability. All this means that more than any other plausible arrangement, the status quo in East Asia best satisfies not just the security interests of the United States, but also its allies. And it’s a reality that means US policymakers naturally feel compelled to try to prevent China from even attempting to turn to force to resolve the region’s numerous territorial disputes.

Asia primacy prevents nuclear war
Goh, 08 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective certainty about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been determined by U.S. assurances, self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the perceptions and confidence of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order. 
4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order
Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the United States. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability. 
Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape. 
First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to stabilize its global leadership. Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the United States has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states that support American preponderance. 
Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the United States extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from periods of strategic uncertainty and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the United States dominance directly. 
The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference toward the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China. 
India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function. 
Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006). 
Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach. 
Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing ways. Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions. 
5. Conclusion
To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the United States is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era. 
However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined? 
The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the United States' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt, which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse. 

====2nc Cards==== 


Empirics—Asia heg is most historically and empirically valid and solves all war
Smith and Khoo, 10 – Reader in War Studies in the Department of War Studies at King's College at the University of London, **Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Political Science at Columbia University (6/18, “A ‘Concert of Asia?,’” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/7060)**

**Yet the main reason for NATO’s success and longevity is precisely that it is characterized by the dominance, both in decision making and military presence, of one single great power — the United States — that is, uniquely, external to the continent. Therefore, if one suggests that schemes for a concert have proved relatively short-lived in Europe, often foundering on the rocks of political and national difference, then they are even less likely to be efficacious in a much more geographically disparate and heterogeneous continent like Asia. Moreover, if one can fairly criticize analysts for failing to fully appreciate the rarity and ephemeral nature of concert systems in European history, the same analysts seem also not to apprehend that Asia has even less experience of multipolarity. The only example of a multipolar system in Asia in modern times has been a negative one, covering the period of chaos, war, and colonialism from 1839 to 1945. There has been nothing resembling a concert in Asia. Instead, regional unipolarity has been the rule, reflected in the preponderance of Chinese power until the start of the Opium Wars in 1839 and, after a period of great turbulence, U.S. dominance in the post-1945 period.**
**The reality of American hegemony**
**The fact that a tradition of unipolarity has supplied stability in the region somewhat undermines the starting point of Concert of Asia advocates who believe that because the area is a hotbed of tension and rivalries, it needs to be managed through a multilateral framework. It does not. Currently, a benign American hegemony prevails in the Asia-Pacific and remains the key to managing change in a fluid economic and strategic environment. Moreover, there are solid theoretical and empirical bases on which to believe that this is a desirable state of affairs. From a theoretical perspective, U.S. military preponderance reduces the intensity of the “security dilemma” in the region. The term refers to a vicious cycle in which defensive actions taken to maintain a state’s security are perceived as offensive threats and lead other states to take actions that reduce the first state’s security. It is a theory that has particular resonance in the Asia-Pacific, characterized as it is by traditional rivalries, most notably between China and Japan. In essence, a robust forward U.S. military presence mitigates the likelihood that the myriad of potentially explosive territorial and sovereignty disputes will be resolved in a manner that disrupts regional security. To cite but one example, it has been the U.S. commitment to Taiwan since 1950 that has prevented Beijing from launching a full-fledged invasion to reclaim the island. Decision makers in Beijing, who view Taiwan as part of their sovereign territory, have been deterred by the U.S. military presence in East Asia from taking what they see as defensive actions to recover Taiwan. From an empirical perspective, American hegemony generally finds tacit and widespread support across the region, particularly among the ASEAN states that see the U.S. presence as necessary to counteract possible Chinese irredentism or a revival of Japanese militarism. For example, Singaporean Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew has been quoted as saying that “the golden rule for Asia-Pacific security” is that of using the American presence in the region to forestall the excessive growth and influence of either China or Japan. In recent years, such rhetoric has been backed up by Singapore’s extension of naval and air force facilities to the United States. Arguably, even the Chinese themselves, although they would prefer not to see the United States prevail in the long run, discreetly defer to American power, not least by tacitly recognizing America’s role in helping to check any prospective Japanese or Russian adventurism. Finally, it may be added that the best way to keep the United States firmly anchored in the Asia-Pacific region is to accept rather than challenge its de facto hegemony. Notions of hegemony are not very consistent with United States self-perceptions, and a continued demonstration by the Asia-Pacific region that the American role is appreciated will go a long way in ensuring that there is no inadvertent scaling down of that presence. One need only consider the counterproductive 1992 decision by the Philippines to close down American bases at Clark Field and Subic Bay to appreciate the fact that American decision makers know when they are not welcome.**

**Also turns their economic stuff**
**Mandelbaum 2005 – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005**
**[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]**

**Although the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood that a nuclear shot would be fired in anger somewhere in the world, counted as the most serious potential consequence of the abandonment by the United States of its role as the world's government, it was not the only one. In the previous period of American international reticence, the 1920s and 1930s, the global economy suffered serious damage that a more active American role might have mitigated. A twenty-first-century American retreat could have similarly adverse international economic consequences. The economic collapse of the 1930s caused extensive hardship throughout the world and led indirectly to World War II by paving the way for the people who started it to gain power in Germany and Japan. In retrospect, the Great Depression is widely believed to have been caused by a series of errors in public policy that made an economic downturn far worse than it would have been had governments responded to it in appropriate fashion. Since the 1930s, acting on the lessons drawn from that experience by professional economists, governments have taken steps that have helped to prevent a recurrence of the disasters of that decade.' In the face of reduced demand, for example, governments have increased rather than cut spending. Fiscal and monetary crises have evoked rescue efforts rather than a studied indifference based on the assumption that market forces will readily reestablish a desirable economic equilibrium. In contrast to the widespread practice of the 1930s, political authorities now understand that putting up barriers to imports in an attempt to revive domestic production will in fact worsen economic conditions everywhere. Still, a serious, prolonged failure of the international economy, inflicting the kind of hardship the world experienced in the 1930s (which some Asian countries also suffered as a result of their fiscal crises in the 1990s) does not lie beyond the realm of possibility. Market economies remain subject to cyclical downturns, which public policy can limit but has not found a way to eliminate entirely. Markets also have an inherent tendency to form bubbles, excessive values for particular assets, whether seventeenth century Dutch tulips or twentieth century Japanese real estate and Thai currency, that cause economic harm when the bubble bursts and prices plunge. In responding to these events, governments can make errors. They can act too slowly, or fail to implement the proper policies, or implement improper ones. Moreover, the global economy and the national economies that comprise it, like a living organism, change constantly and sometimes rapidly: Capital flows across sovereign borders, for instance, far more rapidly and in much greater volume in the early twenty-first century than ever before. This means that measures that successfully address economic malfunctions at one time may have less effect at another, just as medical science must cope with the appearance of new strains of influenza against which existing vaccines are not effective. Most importantly, since the Great Depression, an active American international economic role has been crucial both in fortifying the conditions for global economic well-being and in coping with the problems that have occurred, especially periodic recessions and currency crises, by applying the lessons of the past. The absence of such a role could weaken those conditions and aggravate those problems. The overall American role in the world since World War II therefore has something in common with the theme of the Frank Capra film It's a Wonderful Life, in which the angel Clarence, played by Henry Travers, shows James Stewart, playing the bank clerk George Bailey, who believes his existence to have been worthless, how life in his small town of Bedford Falls would have unfolded had he never been born. George Bailey learns that people he knows and loves turn out to be far worse off without him. So it is with the United States and its role as the world's government. Without that role, the world very likely would have been in the past, and would become in the future, a less secure and less prosperous place. The abdication by the United States of some or all of the responsibilities for international security that it had come to bear in the first decade of the twenty-first century would deprive the international system of one of its principal safety features, which keeps countries from smashing into each other, as they are historically prone to do. In this sense, a world without America would be the equivalent of a freeway full of cars without brakes. Similarly, should the American government abandon some or all of the ways in which it had, at the dawn of the new century, come to support global economic activity, the world economy would function less effectively and might even suffer a severe and costly breakdown. A world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.**

**No “arms race”—military upgrades don’t matter and aren’t a reason to change anything**
**AP 2011 (3/7, Associated Press, “China Challenges U.S. Predominance in Asia-Pacific”, http://www.cnas.org/node/5940, WEA)**

**China regards Taiwan as part of its territory. Relations between the two, long seen as a potential flash point, have warmed in the past two years. But China's assertion of territorial claims in the South China Sea, which it has declared as a "core interest" — essentially something it could go to war over — has spooked its neighbors and fortified their support for a strong U.S. presence in the region. Even former enemy Vietnam is forging military ties with the U.S.**
**Last week, the Philippines deployed two warplanes after a ship searching for oil complained it was harassed by two Chinese patrol boats in the South China Sea. Japan scrambled F-15 fighter jets after Chinese surveillance and anti-submarine aircraft flew near disputed islands in the East China Sea.**
**"As China's military has gotten more capable and China has behaved more aggressively, a number of countries are looking at the U.S. as a hedge to make sure they can maintain independence, security and stability," said Abraham Denmark, director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security.**
**But those allies question whether the U.S. can retain its freedom to operate in the region, and whether its economy — highly indebted to China and struggling to recover from a recession — can sustain its high level of military spending, said Bonnie Glaser, a China expert at the Center of Strategic and International Studies think tank.**
**The U.S. Pacific Command has 325,000 personnel, five aircraft carrier strike groups, 180 ships and nearly 2,000 aircraft. Tens of thousands of forces stay on China's doorstep at long-established bases in South Korea and Japan.**
**China's defense spending is still dwarfed by the United States. Even if China really invests twice as much in its military as its official $91.5 billion budget, which some analysts believe, that is still only about a quarter of U.S. spending. It has no aircraft carriers and lags the U.S. in defense technology. Some of its most vaunted recent military advances will take years to reach operation.**
**For example, China test flew its stealth fighter in January, months earlier than U.S. intelligence expected, but U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates says China will still only have a couple of hundred of these "fifth-generation" jets by 2025, when the United States should have 1,500.**
**But China's growing array of aircraft, naval and submarine vessels, ballistic and cruise missiles, anti-satellite and cyber war capabilities already enable it to project power beyond its shores. It plans new submarines, larger naval destroyers and transport aircraft that could expand that reach further.**
**Roger Cliff, a respected defense researcher who recently testified before a congressional hearing on China, says many of the missiles and strike aircraft have a range of about 900 miles, which put them within attacking distance of virtually all U.S. air and naval bases in the region. They include the DF-21D missile which is designed to target aircraft carriers. It employs technology that no other U.S. rival has mastered. It does not appear to have been tested yet against a maneuvering target at sea.**
**Cliff said if trends continue, China should have sufficient missiles and precision bombs by the end of the decade to render inoperable for a week or more all airfields on Taiwan and U.S. air bases in Okinawa, Japan, and possibly others farther away. He said there are between 40 and 50 Chinese air bases within 500 miles of Taiwan, each generally hosting a squadron of 24 aircraft, which could overwhelm superior U.S. aircraft through sheer numbers. If China acquired amphibious landing vehicles, he forecast it could conquer Taiwan.**
**If U.S. military planners are worried about that possibility, they aren't showing it. They say plans to cap defense spending within five years won't derail modernization plans. Pacific Command chief Adm. Robert Willard said last month that while the U.S. carefully watches China's growing military capabilities — and urges greater openness from China about them — the United States does not need to change its strategy.**
**China maintains it does not have offensive intentions, and analysts say that military action in the region would hurt its export-driven economy which could threaten what its government prizes above all else — domestic stability. The U.S. military presence may also benefit China as it restrains neighbors like South Korea and Japan from seeking nuclear weapons.**
**As U.S. and Chinese forces increasingly rub up against each other in the west Pacific, the U.S. says it wants to promote military ties with China to prevent a chance skirmish and for China to develop as a "responsible major power." To date, China has been reluctant to engage meaningfully after the recent restoration of military ties that were cut over U.S. arms sales to Taiwan.**
**"This is not the Cold War with two rival camps facing each other," said Michael Schiffer, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of defense for East Asia. "We are seeking a military-military relationship that is broad and deep enough to manage our differences while expanding on areas of common interest."**



**Their authors vastly overstate Chinese capabilities**
**Hartigan 2011 – Nonproliferation and Defense Policy Researcher for the National Security Network (3/8, Kelsey, Democracy Arsenal, “Defending Defense Cohort Makes Case for Reducing Defense Spending”, http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/03/woops-defending-defense-cohort-makes-case-for-reducing-defense-spending.html, WEA)**

**The United States has the most powerful military in the world. No other country comes close to matching our military might.**
**Yet to read the latest Defending Defense report by Heritage, AEI and FPI, one gets the sense that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) could easily overwhelm U.S. forces in the Asia-Pacific and that China’s modernization efforts far outpace those of the United States. This distortion is a result of the fact that the report fails to take into account U.S. military capabilities, which happen to be vastly superior. And it fails to mention the U.S defense budget, which happens to be about eight times the size of China’s— a particularly awkward omission for a report that was supposed to focus on Chinese military capabilities and the implications for U.S. defense spending.**
**Instead, the three leading conservative think-tanks focus solely on Chinese forces, attempting to scare readers into thinking that the U.S. needs to spend more, not less on defense. It is zero-sum thinking through and through. And it’s quite dishonest in its representation of Chinese capabilities, particularly when compared to U.S. forces.**
**We have approximately 325,000 civilian and military personnel assigned to the United States Pacific Command. Oddly, this is never mentioned. The U.S. Pacific Fleet includes five aircraft carrier strike groups, approximately 180 ships and roughly 1,500 aircraft. The Marine Corps has a strong presence in the region, including two Marine Expeditionary Forces. The Army has five Stryker brigades and more than 1,200 Special Forces personnel assigned to its component command. And U.S. Pacific Air Forces maintain over 300 aircraft, with an additional 100 aircraft deployed to Guam. In other words, we have an strong military presence in the region.**
**But if the point is to inflate China’s military capabilities and portray the Chinese as a major threat, that’s a lot easier to do if U.S. military superiority is ignored. Case in point: the Chinese have started to test a 5th generation fighter. But the J-20 is simply a prototype and it’s not even operational. As Secretary Gates noted in a Senate hearing last month, the U.S. has a decisive advantage, both quantitatively and qualitatively, when comparing such aircraft.**
**“The latest estimates on the Chinese side would be that by 2020 they might have 50 deployed and by 2025 maybe a couple hundred. We will have 325 F–35s by the end of 2016, even under the revised program, which with the F–22s gives us over 500 fifth generation aircraft. We will have 850 F–35s by 2020 or fifth generation aircraft by 2020 and about 1,500 by 2025. So there is still a huge disparity in terms of these aircraft. And frankly—I do not want to get into it too much in an open hearing—this is their first low-observable aircraft, and given the challenges that we have had—and we have been at this now better than 20 years—frankly, I think they have got a long road in front of them before this becomes a serious operational aircraft in any numbers.”**
**China’s growth in its ballistic and cruise missile arsenal is certainly worth monitoring, which of course, is precisely what the U.S. is doing. In terms of China’s strategic forces, China still deploys a number of liquid-fueled missiles, which are significantly less reliable and less sophisticated than those that utilize a solid propellant. China’s most advanced ICBM, the DF-31A, has entered into service in recent years, though China deploys just 10-15 of these. To be sure, there are several areas where China’s capabilities have advanced. But this does not mean that every development threatens the U.S. and it does not mean that the U.S. is incapable of responding, if necessary.**
**This entire report is essentially premised on the idea that U.S. forces will languish while China modernizes. It also portrays every advancement as a direct threat to the United States. Michael Schiffer, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of defense for East Asia, recently explained, “This is not the Cold War with two rival camps facing each other.” Yet that’s the exact mentality guiding the Defending Defense report.**

**They ignore the joint effect of Chinese dithering and American resolve**
**Taylor and Schreer 2011 – Senior Lecturers at the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre, Australian National University (Feb., Benjamin Schreer and Brendan Taylor, Survival, 53.1, “The Korean Crises and Sino-American Rivalry”)**

**The Obama administration quickly seized the opportunity presented by these two crises to reinforce the foundations of US primacy in the Asia-Pacific. Identifying China's unwavering support for the North Korean regime and its failure to condemn Pyongyang's aggression as a point of vulnerability for Beijing, Washington rallied its Asia-Pacific allies to demand that China bring its purported leverage to bear against Pyongyang. China's inability or unwillingness to do so, especially during times of severe crisis, reinforced America's political leadership credentials in the eyes of allies and partners. It is worth noting that despite their growing trade relationship with China, US allies such as Australia were vocal in their criticism of Beijing's crisis behaviour.**
**Chinese objections played into Washington's hands**
**Displays of US military power during both crises also demonstrated to Asian allies that America possesses an unrivalled capacity to defend them in the face of major external aggression. While America's forward-deployed presence will likely not prevent further acts of North Korean aggression, both Japan and South Korea were reminded of the necessity of their respective US alliances as a deterrent to major war.**
**Chinese objections to US carrier deployments in the aftermath of North Korea's provocations ironically played into Washington's hands. While American acquiescence to Chinese demands following the Cheonan sinking was seen by some commentators as a sign of US weakness, Beijing's assertiveness was ultimately far more damaging because it revealed the true extent of China's disregard for the strategic interests of South Korea (and Japan). When subsequent Chinese protests against US drills following the Yeonpyeong crisis went unheeded, this served only to further expose the limits of Beijing's influence**
**Washington's firm military response has likely shaped South Korea's decisions on its future strategic choices between the United States and China. There are clear indications that South Korea will move towards even closer defence relations with the United States, a development many observers had deemed unlikely in recent years. These include Seoul's request to delay until 2015 the transfer of US command over South Korean troops during times of war to the Republic of Korea. Through these crises, South Korea has received a stark reminder of the limits of its war-fighting capabilities and of the need to cling to a close alliance relationship with the United States. Echoing South Korean moves to strengthen its alliance with Washington in the aftermath of the crises, Japan also stepped up its defence activities to counter what it perceives to be growing threats from North Korea and China.4 Moreover, South Korea for the first time took part in a US-Japanese military exercise as an observer. And it will not have escaped China's attention that the United States, Japan and South Korea held a historic trilateral security meeting in Washington following the Yeonpyeong incident.**
**Finally, Washington used the crises to strengthen the link between the security and economic factors underpinning its strategic design. Washington imposed further sanctions against North Korea in response to the sinking of the Cheonan, as much to signal its support for Seoul as to punish Pyongyang. It was also no coincidence that the United States and South Korea negotiated a significant new Free Trade Agreement in the midst of the Yeonpyeong crisis, which reportedly stands a much higher chance of receiving congressional approval than its predecessors.5**

**Withdrawing from Korea but not Japan is worse**
**Eberstadt 2 – political economist who holds the Henry Wendt Chair in Political Economy at the AEI and is Senior Adviser to the National Bureau of Asian Research (10/1, Nicholas, The National Interest, “Our Other Korea Problem,” http://www.aei.org/article/19460)**

**An American troop withdrawal from Korea, or the downgrading of the U.S. presence into a peacekeeping force, would generate far-reaching reverberations-though some U.S. analysts favor such a course of events. One such reverberation would concern the future of U.S. forward bases in Japan. For Japan to be the only East Asian state hosting U.S. troops, this on top of the continuing controversy in Japanese domestic politics with regard to Okinawa, might be hard to sustain for long. Thus, an American military pullout from South Korea, far from leading to a bolstering of U.S. forces elsewhere in East Asia, might trigger a major diminution of American influence in the Pacific.**
**The worst of all outcomes would be a politically rancorous American withdrawal from Korea at a time when a highly armed North Korean state fronting an effective charm offensive saw opportunities to further its old ambition-the re-unification of the peninsula under its aegis. Those particulars could all too easily set the stage for a potentially devastating conflict in Korea, with spillover potential to other major powers.**
**But even presuming genuine rapprochement between North and South and some measure of stability in Korea, an American withdrawal from Korea would still create a security vacuum and invite a latter-day version of the Great Game of realpolitik the Pacific powers played so roughly in the region a century ago. A U.S. military withdrawal from Korea might be welcomed in Moscow or Beijing, but, in truth, both are ambivalent about the departure of the American military presence in Korea. In public they support U.S. withdrawal, but privately they recognize that Northeast Asia would be a less stable neighborhood-and a region less disposed to economic growth-without the U.S. military presence. Although any losses-in terms of diminished economic potential and reduced national security-would be distributed unevenly in the region, all the Pacific powers and South Korea would lose from an end to the U.S.-ROK military alliance and the U.S.-dominated security order in East Asia. Of all the political actors in East Asia, only the DPRK-the region's lone radical revisionist state-could reasonably expect any benefits.**

**The plan kills US influence in East Asia and questions our role in Japan**
**Kang and Cha, 03 – *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND** associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf)

But hasty withdrawal of U.S. forces is hardly the answer to such trans-Pacific anxiety, particularly as the U.S.–South Korean alliance enters uncharted territory. The North Koreans would claim victory, and the United States would lose influence in one of the most dynamic economic regions in the world—an outcome it neither wants nor can afford. In the long term, such a withdrawal would also pave the way for Chinese regional dominance. Some South Koreans might welcome a larger role for China—a romantic and uninformed notion at best. Betting on China, after all, did not make South Korea the 12th largest economy and one of the most vibrant liberal democracies in the world.
The alternatives to the alliance are not appealing to either South Koreans or Americans. Seoul would have to boost its relatively low level of defense spending (which, at roughly 3 percent of gross domestic product, is less than that of Israel and Saudi Arabia, for example). Washington would run the risk of jeopardizing its military presence across East Asia, as a U.S. withdrawal from the peninsula raised questions about the raison d’être for keeping its troops in Japan. A revision in the U.S. military presence in Korea is likely within the next five years, but withdrawal of that presence and abrogation of its alliance are not. 

Korea is key—any defensive compensation is even worse
Kim 99 – Associate Professor at the Institute of Foreign Affairs & National Security (Sung-Han Kim, “Stability and Security on the Korean Peninsula: Developing a Research Agenda,” The University of California at San Diego, 5/26-27/99, http://www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc.)

Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario is that in light of its lack of ground forces, the U.S. commitment to "automatic involvement" in any development on the Korean peninsula would be seen as considerably weakened. The presence of ground troops constitutes the clearest evidence of the political determination of the United States. Therefore, if Washington's political commitment appears diminished due to the withdrawal of all but its naval and air forces, the effectiveness of U.S. forces in Japan would also decline markedly. Moreover, if the United States were to maintain naval forces along Korea's west coast across from the Chinese coastal territory, Beijing would likely react sensitively, a factor which could harm U.S.-China relations.

The aff decimates leadership in Asia fueling instability—ground troops are the lynchpin
Scales and Wortzel 1999 – *PhD, Major General in the U.S. Army, **PhD in political science, US Army Colonel, Director of the Strategic Studies Institute, graduate of the Armed Forces Staff College and the Army War College (4/6, Robert and Larry, Strategic Studies Institute, “The Future U.S. Military Presence in Asia: Landpower and The Geostrategy of American Commitment”, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB75.pdf, WEA)

For more than 50 years, countries around the world have looked to the United States for international leadership. Most Asian governments welcome a U.S. presence in the region to help preserve security and stability. They know that an American presence does not mean an occupying force since, if asked, the United States leaves.1 These countries are reassured by a more or less continuous presence of U.S. forces in a way that the temporary passage or intervention of expeditionary forces will not accomplish.
The credibility and deterrent effect of a soldier (sailor, airman, or marine) on the ground represents commitment and stability. Face-to-face contact and “boots on the ground” are the only ways to defeat the “tyranny of distance” and really effect events on land in support of U.S. interests. The nexus of vital U.S. interests in Asia is in Northeast Asia because of the presence of five traditionally warring powers there: North and South Korea, Japan, Russia, and China. 
There are some who believe that to map out a strategic future in the next century, the U.S. military must be prepared to draw back to a security zone extending from Alaska through Hawaii to Guam. This would involve dismantling the Japan-U.S. Security Treaty.2 Other strategic thinkers around Asia and in the United States, in contrast, recognize the benefits of maintaining U.S. forces in Korea and Japan.3 Michael O’Hanlon, a Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, notes that keeping forces in the region helps retain influence for Washington.4 The U.S. presence, O’Hanlon maintains, serves as a deterrent against instability in Northeast Asia.5
This article will argue that for the United States to isolate itself and withdraw militarily from Asia would be disastrous for the stability of the region and for the security of the United States. The point is made in the paper that a robust land presence in Northeast Asia provides a strategic weight into the 21st century. A U.S. withdrawal from Northeast Asia would leave a major void in the strategic architecture that would lead to a serious arms race, competition for control of the Korean Peninsula, competition for control of the sea and air lines of communication in the western Pacific, and would probably create a nuclear arms race. The United States needs a balanced military presence in Asia, including air, sea, and land forces. 

The plan empowers Chinese nationalists—this ups the risk
Kim 6 – M.D.. Education. M.D., John Hopkins University; B.S., Duke University (Stephen J., “Alternative Proliferation and Alliance Futures in East Asia”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA451273&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

But what about alternative futures we do not want to see in 2025? It is easier to be a pessimist because one has selective recourse to the data of history. One remains anxious as to whether the lure of past glory and regional predominance tugs at the heart of Chinese or Japanese leaders. In their long histories, China has rarely been democratic; Japan has rarely been pacifistic; Korea has rarely been unhindered by great power conflicts. The withdrawal of U.S. forces that would accompany the abrogation of our treaty and alliance commitments in East Asia would likely harbinger a future reeking with the unpleasantness and chauvinism of East Asia’s past. Rather than serving as a rally point for reform and genuine opening of the society, the 2008 Beijing Olympic games could be used as a bugle for Chinese nationalism. If the United States and China fail to reach a clear understanding about nuclear proliferation, the withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea and Japan will only embolden a confident and assertive China. Chinese nationalists will want to throw their weight around East Asia. In this environment, I believe that as soon as China achieves domestic stability, it will try to penetrate culturally into neighboring countries. The Chin, Sui, Tang, and Qing dynasties were not exceptions. As soon as it feels that it has achieved its original target for economic reforms, and buttressed by its confident nationalistic impulses, China is likely to claim, at a minimum, its regional power hegemony in East Asia.9 The next generation of Chinese nationalist leaders suffers little in confidence, panache, or assertiveness. On May 7, 1999, during Operation ALLIED FORCE, U.S. forces mistakenly struck the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. The young Chinese vice president condemned the bombing and “allowed” anti-U.S. demonstrations. He argued that these demonstrations “fully reflect the Chinese people’s great fury at the atrocity of the embassy attacks by NATO [the North Atlantic Treaty Organization] and the Chinese people’s strong patriotism.”10 The voice belonged to none other than Hu Jintao. 

And, resolve is the key internal link to conflict escalation
Christensen 01 – professor of politics at Princeton University (Thomas, Spring. “Posing problems without catching up.” International Security, EBSCO.)

On the active defense side, it appears that China is attempting to import and to build indigenously a fairly impressive layered air defense system to counter cruise missiles and advanced aircraft. In addition to reported clandestine acquisition of Patriot technology, China has purchased and is seeking to purchase from Russia an undisclosed number of SA-10 (S-300) and SA-15 (TOR-1) SAM systems. Some of this Russian technology might be successfully integrated into China's own domestically produced SAM systems, such as the HQ-9. [66] China is also working to develop antistealth and antisatellite capabilities. Even if the Chinese programs have only limited effect against more technologically advanced foes, they may still pose a future security challenge to Taiwan and the United States. If Beijing elites believe that they are in a protracted war of wills over an issue that they care about much more than do the Americans, such as Taiwan, those elites might still be emboldened by the perceived capability--however limited--to increase costs to American and Taiwanese forces and to reduce costs to mainland assets in such a struggle. This problem is only exacerbated by any perceptions that Chinese elites might have about America's supposed limited willingness to fight such protracted wars and to suffer casualties. Implications and Prescriptions for U.S. Strategy If the analysis above is correct, preventing war across the Taiwan Strait and between the United States and China is much more difficult than a straightforward net assessment of relative military power in the region might suggest. To deter China from launching attacks against Taiwan and escalating crises and conflicts by attacking American assets in the region, the United States must do more than demonstrate an ability to prevail militarily in a conflict; it must also demonstrate American resolve and, perhaps, the ability to protect its forces not only from defeat but also from significant harm.

The fact that some elements of Sino-American competition exist means weakening our position is handled as capitulation which tips the balance and causes spiraling insecurity
Auslin 2011 – Resident Scholar in Foreign and Defense Policy Studies, American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research (Michael, The American Interest, “Tipping Point in the Indo-Pacific”, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article-bd.cfm?piece=924, WEA)

These elites, and many American and Chinese decision-makers, too, believe that history testifies to the centrality of military power, the very nature of which drives political relations toward zero-sum competition. They believe that military power accrues political influence to itself over the future of trade and development, regional cooperation and, ultimately, issues of sovereignty. They believe, as former Secretary of State Dean Acheson said, that influence is the shadow of power—that, in other words, international reality is a zero-sum game shaped not only by absolute capabilities but the sway over others that comes with strength. They argue the ultimate incompatibility of U.S. and Chinese national security goals even if no obvious test of vital interests can now be discerned. Great powers do not compete because their interests demand it; they rather construe their interests in such a way as to confirm the inevitability of competition.
If this is so, we should not expect that some middle way easily can be found to harmonize Chinese and American interests and policies. Any change in the current security policies of either actor would necessarily impinge on the position of the other and would mark a significant turning point in the Sino-American competition in the eyes of relevant third parties, and therefore in the eyes of the protagonists themselves. It also could deliver a serious blow to the legitimacy of the liberal order that America inherited from Great Britain, expanded, and defended for more than seven decades. This interlinked geometry of perception is why even a minor, entirely unpremeditated trial of strength could have outsized consequences. Whichever side is believed to have surrendered its goals and changed its policy will be seen throughout the region as the loser, and therefore the weaker party. Political rhetoric may seek to minimize the importance of a capitulation, as well as to make it more palatable to domestic audiences, but the strategic impact will be unmistakable.

Not good enough—heg via troop presence is a prerequisite to everything. This card is just flat out better
Walt 2002 – Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, co-chair of the editorial board of the journal International Security, fellow in the American academy of arts and sciences (Stephen, IR China, from Naval War College Review 55, “American primacy – its prospects and pitfalls”, http://www.irchina.org/xueren/foreign/view.asp?id=83, WEA)

Today, U.S. primacy helps deter potential challenges to American interests in virtually every part of the world. Few countries or nonstate groups want to invite the “focused enmity” of the United States (to use William Wohlforth’s apt phrase), and countries and groups that have done so (such as Libya, Iraq, Serbia, or the Taliban) have paid a considerable price. As discussed below, U.S. dominance does provoke opposition in a number of places, but anti-American elements are forced to rely on covert or indirect strategies (such as terrorist bombings) that do not seriously threaten America’s dominant position. Were American power to decline significantly, however, groups opposed to U.S. interests would probably be emboldened and overt challenges would be more likely. 
This does not mean that the United States can act with impunity, nor does it guarantee that the United States will achieve every one of its major foreign policy objectives. It does mean that the United States has a margin of security that weaker states do not possess. This margin of safety is a luxury, perhaps, but it is also a luxury that few Americans would want to live without. 
Primacy Provides Tranquility 
A second consequence of U.S. primacy is a decreased danger of great-power rivalry and a higher level of overall international tranquility. Ironically, those who argue that primacy is no longer important, because the danger of war is slight, overlook the fact that the extent of American primacy is one of the main reasons why the risk of great-power war is as low as it is. 
For most of the past four centuries, relations among the major powers have been intensely competitive, often punctuated by major wars and occasionally by all-out struggles for hegemony. In the first half of the twentieth century, for example, great-power wars killed over eighty million people. Today, however, the dominant position of the United States places significant limits on the possibility of great-power competition, for at least two reasons. 
One reason is that because the United States is currently so far ahead, other major powers are not inclined to challenge its dominant position. Not only is there no possibility of a “hegemonic war” (because there is no potential hegemon to mount a challenge), but the risk of war via miscalculation is reduced by the overwhelming gap between the United States and the other major powers. Miscalculation is more likely to lead to war when the balance of power is fairly even, because in this situation both sides can convince themselves that they might be able to win. When the balance of power is heavily skewed, however, the leading state does not need to go to war and weaker states dare not try.8 
It may not be politically correct to talk about “enjoying” the exercise of power, but most people understand that it is better to have it than to lack it. 
The second reason is that the continued deployment of roughly two hundred thousand troops in Europe and in Asia provides a further barrier to conflict in each region. So long as U.S. troops are committed abroad, regional powers know that launching a war is likely to lead to a confrontation with the United States. Thus, states within these regions do not worry as much about each other, because the U.S. presence effectively prevents regional conflicts from breaking out. What Joseph Joffe has termed the “American pacifier” is not the only barrier to conflict in Europe and Asia, but it is an important one. This tranquilizing effect is not lost on America’s allies in Europe and Asia. They resent U.S. dominance and dislike playing host to American troops, but they also do not want “Uncle Sam” to leave.9 
Thus, U.S. primacy is of benefit to the United States, and to other countries as well, because it dampens the overall level of international insecurity. World politics might be more interesting if the United States were weaker and if other states were forced to compete with each other more actively, but a more exciting world is not necessarily a better one. A comparatively boring era may provide few opportunities for genuine heroism, but it is probably a good deal more pleasant to live in than “interesting” decades like the 1930s or 1940s. 
Primacy Fosters Prosperity 
By facilitating the development of a more open and liberal world economy, American primacy also fosters global prosperity. Economic interdependence is often said to be a cause of world peace, but it is more accurate to say that peace encourages interdependence—by making it easier for states to accept the potential vulnerabilities of extensive international intercourse.10 Investors are more willing to send money abroad when the danger of war is remote, and states worry less about being dependent on others when they are not concerned that these connections might be severed. When states are relatively secure, they will also be less fixated on how the gains from cooperation are distributed. In particular, they are less likely to worry that extensive cooperation will benefit others more and thereby place them at a relative disadvantage over time.11 
By providing a tranquil international environment, in short, U.S. primacy has created political conditions that are conducive to expanding global trade and investment. Indeed, American primacy was a prerequisite for the creation and gradual expansion of the European Union, which is often touted as a triumph of economic self-interest over historical rivalries. Because the United States was there to protect the Europeans from the Soviet Union and from each other, they could safely ignore the balance of power within Western Europe and concentrate on expanding their overall level of economic integration. The expansion of world trade has been a major source of increased global prosperity, and U.S. primacy is one of the central pillars upon which that system rests.12 The United States also played a leading role in establishing the various institutions that regulate and manage the world economy. As a number of commentators have noted, the current era of “globalization” is itself partly an artifact of American power. As Thomas Friedman puts it, “Without America on duty, there will be no America Online.”13 
Primacy Maximizes Influence 
Finally, primacy gives the United States greater freedom of action and greater influence over the entire agenda of global issues. Because it is less dependent on other countries, the United States is to a large extent able to set the terms for its participation in many international arrangements. Although cooperating with others is often in its interest, the option to “go it alone” gives the United States greater bargaining power than most (if not all) other states.14 The United States can also choose to stay out of trouble if it wishes; because it is objectively very secure, it can remain aloof from many of the world’s problems even when it might be able to play a constructive role.15 
Yet primacy also means that the United States can undertake tasks that no other state would even contemplate and can do so with reasonable hope of success. In the past decade, for instance, the United States played a key role in guiding the reunification of Germany; negotiated a deal to end North Korea’s nuclear weapons program; and convinced Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Belarus to give up the nuclear arsenals they had inherited from the Soviet Union. It also rescued the Mexican economy during the peso crisis in 1994, brought three new members into the Nato alliance, defeated and defanged Iraq in 1991, and kept the Iraqi regime under tight constraints thereafter. The United States also played an important role in the recovery from the Asian financial crisis of 1997, led the coalition that defeated Serbia in the 1999 war in Kosovo, and used its economic power to encourage the ouster of Slobodan Milosevic and his prosecution for alleged war crimes. U.S. power probably helped prevent any number of events that might have occurred but at this writing have not—such as a direct Chinese challenge to Taiwan or a nuclear conflict between India and Pakistan. Each of these achievements required resources, and America’s capacity to shape world events would be much smaller were its relative power to decline. 
In short, saying that Americans like a position of primacy is akin to saying that they like power, and they prefer to have more of it rather than less. It may not be politically correct to talk about “enjoying” the exercise of power, but most people understand that it is better to have it than to lack it. Having a great deal of power may not guarantee success or safety, but it certainly improves the odds. One imagines, for example, that Senator Tom Daschle likes being majority leader of the U.S. Senate more than he liked being minority leader, just as one suspects that Mikhail Gorbachev, Boris Yeltsin, and now Vladimir Putin would have acted quite differently had Russian (or Soviet) power not deteriorated so dramatically. The reason is simple—when one is stronger, one can defend one’s interests more effectively and can more easily prevent others from imposing their will.16 Power also gives people (or states) the capacity to pursue positive ends, and a position of primacy maximizes one’s ability to do so. 
Thus, anyone who thinks that the United States should try to discourage the spread of weapons of mass destruction, promote human rights, advance the cause of democracy, or pursue any other positive political goal should recognize that the nation’s ability to do so rests primarily upon its power. The United States would accomplish far less if it were weaker, and it would discover that other states were setting the agenda of world politics if its own power were to decline. As Harry Truman put it over fifty years ago, “Peace must be built upon power, as well as upon good will and good deeds.”17 
The bottom line is clear. Even in a world with nuclear weapons, extensive economic ties, rapid communications, an increasingly vocal chorus of nongovernmental organizations, and other such novel features, power still matters, and primacy is still preferable. People running for president do not declare that their main goal as commander in chief would be to move the United States into the number-two position. They understand, as do most Americans, that being number one is a luxury they should try very hard to keep. 


No allied prolif – the US nuclear umbrella reassures
Allison, 10 – Director of the Belfur Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard (Graham, “Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, http://www.policyschool.neu.edu/education/graduate/spring2010/documents/AllisonNuclearDisorderForeignAffairsJan2010.pdf)

Start with the bottomline. There are no more nuclear weapons states now than there were at the end of the Cold War. Since then, one undeclared and largely unrecognized nuclear weapons state, South Africa, eliminated its arsenal, and one new state, North Korea, emerged as the sole self-declared but unrecognized nuclear weapon state.
One hundred and eighty-four nations have forsworn the acquisition of nuclear weapons and signed the NPT. At least 13 countries have begun down the path to developing nuclear weapons with serious intent, and were technologically capable of completing the journey, but stopped short of the finish line: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Egypt, Iraq, Italy, Libya, Romania, South Korea, Sweden, Taiwan, and Yugoslavia. Four countries had nuclear weapons but eliminated them. South Africa completed six nuclear weapons in the 1980s and then, prior to the transfer of power to the postapartheid government, dismantled them. Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine together inherited more than 4, 000 strategic nuclear weapons when the Soviet Union dissolved in December 1991. As a result of negotiated agreements among Russia, the United States, and each of these states, all of these weapons were returned to Russia for dismantlement. One thousand six hundred and forty of Ukraine's strategic nuclear warheads were dismantled, and the highly enriched uranium was blended down to produce low-enriched uranium, which was sold to the United States to fuel its nuclear power plants. Few Americans are aware that, thanks to the Megatons to Megawatts Program, half of all the electricity produced by nuclear power plants in the United States over the past decade has been fueled by enriched uranium blended down from the cores of nuclear warheads originally designed to destroy American cities.
Although they do not minimize the consequences of North Korea's or Iran's becoming a nuclear weapons state, those confident in the stability of the nuclear order are dubious about the prospects of a cascade of proliferation occurring in Northeast Asia, the Middle East, or elsewhere. In Japan, nuclear neuralgia has deep roots. The Japanese people suffered the consequences of the only two nuclear weapons ever exploded in war. Despite their differences, successive Japanese governments have remained confident in the U. S. nuclear umbrella and in the cornerstone of the United States' national security strategy in Asia, the U.S.-Japanese security alliance. The South Koreans fear a nuclear-armed North Korea, but they are even more fearful of life without the U. S. nuclear umbrella and U. S. troops on the peninsula. Taiwan is so penetrated and seduced by China that the terror of getting caught cheating makes it a poor candidate to go nuclear. And although rumors of the purchase by Myanmar (also called Burma) of a Yongbyon-style nuclear reactor from North Korea cannot be ignored, questions arise about whether the country would be able to successfully operate it.

Ground forces key to credible security guarantee
Payne, et. al, 10 – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf)

Forward deployment of forces, then, is one of the principal ways in which the United States assures the South Koreans of its commitment to their defense. Forward-deployed forces are the embodiment of that commitment and the mechanism by which the United States would become engaged in any new Korean war. In certain circumstances, the direct engagement of American conventional forces in such a conflict could increase the prospect of U.S. nuclear use. This connection reinforces the nuclear guarantee to Seoul. For these purposes, the presence of some not-insignificant U.S. ground force in South Korea is more important than the specific number of troops or their disposition. While U.S. nuclear weapons in the past were forward deployed in South Korea, a nuclear presence on the peninsula has not been essential to the nuclear guarantee. 

Our Asia heg arguments access Taiwan miscalc
Dunn 07 – Lewis A., Summer. PhD U Chicago, former Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. “Deterrence Today Roles, Challenges and Responses,” IFRI Proliferation Papers, http://www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/Deterrence_Today_Dunn_2007.pdf.

Unlike the case with Russia, a U.S.-China nuclear crisis or even confrontation is not inconceivable. Precipitous action by Taiwan could be one trigger; a decision by Chinese officials to act against Taiwan another. In any such confrontation over Taiwan, it is conceivable that Chinese officials could miscalculate the readiness of the United States to support Tai- wan. Chinese officials also could miscalculate their ability to manage the risks of escalation. In that regard, some Chinese experts have stated in- formally that such an asymmetry of stakes would put the United States at a fundamental disadvantage in any China-Taiwan-U.S. crisis. That is, in their view, given asymmetric stakes, the United States would be reluctant to es- calate even after a Chinese limited use of a nuclear weapon.30 The U.S.-China strategic relationship also is characterized by mutual uncertainties about each other’s longer-term strategic intentions in both Washington and Beijing. In Washington, the scope and goals of China’s planned nuclear modernization as well as its readiness to play a construc- tive role in dealing with pressing non-proliferation problems remain open questions. Beijing’s decision to test an anti-satellite weapon in January, 2007 clearly reinforced those uncertainties. In Beijing, the scope and goals of U.S. deployment of missile defenses and advanced conventional weap- ons is being closely watched given concerns about a possible U.S. pursuit of a disarming first strike against China’s nuclear arsenal. For their part, China’s experts and officials have signaled that the scope and pace of China’s nuclear modernization is linked to those American deployments. So viewed, China is prepared to do whatever it takes to preserve a limited nuclear deterrent.31 Against this backdrop, the U.S. extended nuclear deterrent has a role to play in lessening the risk of Chinese miscalculation over Taiwan. More broadly, as suggested above, the American presence in Asia and the U.S. nuclear deterrent also is seen by some Japanese and other officials as a reassuring factor in the context of China’s growing military capabilities and political rise in Asia. U.S. officials need to continue to make clear U.S. support for a peaceful resolution of the Taiwan question. U.S. officials need to be prepared to counter Chinese perceptions that an asymmetry of stakes reduces the risks of China of threats or use of force should any con- frontation over Taiwan occur. The steps set out above to buttress the U.S.- Japan and U.S.-Korea alliance relationship also provide a broader reassur- ance vis-à-vis China. 


====1nr Cards==== 


Strong military makes China cooperative, weak military doesn’t
Gray and Felzenberg 2011 – *Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the war-studies department of King’s College, London, **lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania’s Annenberg School for Communication and at Yale University (1/3, Alexander and Alvin, National Review, “The new isolationism”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150]]</span>, WEA)

If appropriately funded, the United States Navy has the capacity to play a similar role in China’s rise — perhaps, in the process, influencing how China develops. Should China conclude that the United States intends to remain a visible and active presence in the region, it will respond accordingly. Acting together, the two nations might embark on a series of cooperative ventures designed to help assure a steady flow of trade and an unimpeded exchange of people, goods, and ideas. They can also work together to combat a rise in piracy and terrorism in Asia and elsewhere and to respond to humanitarian crises, like the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. For its part, China, should it continue to hold North Korea in check, will achieve some of the status it seeks as a rising world power, with commensurate influence on the world stage. 
Should China conclude, on the other hand, that the United States intends to turn inward, it may grow even more ambitious and assertive in its region and beyond, potentially menacing world peace. Its smaller neighbors nervously wait to see how the United States will respond to China’s growing assertiveness. Should they come to believe that the U.S. is in retreat, they will make their own accommodations with Beijing. That result would wreak irreparable damage both to America’s economy and to its security. 
Messrs. Frank and Paul and their supporters have taken it into their minds that a reduced American presence in world affairs, particularly where the military is involved, would be a good thing. They had better think again: World politics, like nature, is hardly prone to respect vacuums. Iran and Venezuela remain as bellicose and destabilizing as ever, in spite of two years of Obama “engagement.” Iran squats beside the Strait of Hormuz, through which much of the world’s energy supply travels. Iran has also, the original Monroe Doctrine be damned, extended its military cooperation with Hugo Chávez’s authoritarian regime. Evidence is strong that Venezuela is providing sanctuary for Hezbollah terrorists in South America. The alliance of these two anti-American and increasingly menacing states could pose a threat to the United States of a kind that would make us nostalgic for the Cuban Missile Crisis.

The entire 20th century disproves
White 2010 – Master’s in journalism from Columbia and IR degree from the London School of Economics, editor for Business Insider and formerly wrote for MSNBC (3/26, Gregory, Business Insider, “The Long, Long History Of False Starts Of War Between South And North Korea”, http://www.businessinsider.com/were-calling-it-this-is-not-the-start-the-restart-of-the-korean-war-2010-3, WEA)

History suggests that this sinking of a South Korean naval vessel off the coast of the country will not be the restart of the Korean conflict.
Since the end of open conflict between North and South Korea, the North has consistently acted in an aggressive manner towards its neighbor.
During the 1960s, North Korea conducted military operations into the south, culminating in 1968 when 600 of these raids were reported.
In the 1970s, North Korea tried to assassinate key members of the South Korean government, in an attempt to push the crisis forward.
In 1999, two North Korean naval ships were blown up killing 30.
In 2002, a sea battle killed and unspecified amount of North Koreans and 5 South Koreans.
In November 2009, two military vessels exchanged fire (via HuffPo).
In January 2010, North Korea launched 30 shells into the country's no sail zone.
This time won't be different. Little will happen.

War would be limited and the U.S. would end it quickly
Tong Kim, Ilmin Institute of International Relations at Korea University Research Professor, John Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS Adjunct Professor, 12/12/2010, "A question of war and peace," http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/12/137_77893.html, access 12/13/2010

Perhaps, a more plausible argument against the possibility of an all-out war should be: (1) the North Korean leadership understands that it cannot sustain offensive maneuvers for long and it understands its regime would be destroyed at the end; and (2) the average people on both sides care for the value of life, and they oppose a destructive war. The people in the South became angry against the North. They demand two conflicting measures: strong retaliation against North Korean attacks and the prevention of war at the same time.
There is a military view that it would take as little as three days to a week for the combined forces equipped with high tech precision strike capabilities to defeat and destroy North Korea as we know it today,

Alt causes prove low risk or take out solvency
Powell 2010 (5/26, Bill, Time Magazine, “War on the Korean Peninsula: Thinking the Unthinkable”, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1991928,00.html, WEA)

How might a shooting war start? Defense analysts and military sources in Seoul and Washington agree that an outright, all-out attack by either side is unlikely. Even a nuclear armed North, a Seoul-based defense analyst says, "would not risk an all-out war because it would be the end of the regime. Period, full stop." But there are ways in which smaller skirmishes could break out, and if they aren't contained, they could conceivably lead to disaster. Here are three that are uppermost in defense planners' minds:
The West Sea Redux
The site of the crisis — what Koreans call the West Sea (the Yellow Sea to everyone else) — remains the most obvious danger zone. Prior to the March 26 sinking of the Cheonan, there had been three separate naval clashes in the past decade along the so-called Northern Limit Line. The NLL is the de facto boundary that was drawn in 1953 by the head of U.N. forces at the end of the Korean War. Some say the North has never recognized it; others claim that it implicitly did in a 1992 non-aggression pact signed with the South. With the sinking of the Cheonan — an obvious violation of the 1953 armistice — the West Sea is obviously the most sensitive flash point. After the sinking, South Korean President Lee Myung Bak said that North Korean commercial ships — including fishing vessels that hunt for blue crab in the summer months in the South's waters — could no longer venture below the NLL. Pyongyang responded by saying that, likewise, no ships from the South would be welcome north of the NLL. That means all sea-borne traffic from both sides needs to steer clear of the de facto border, lest "they get blown out of the water," says a Western diplomat in Seoul. "That by definition, under these circumstances, is a fraught situation, given that both sides are on a hair trigger now." (See pictures of the rise of Kim Jong Il.)
Loudspeakers at the DMZ
To much of the rest of the post–Cold War world, the idea seems slightly farcical: setting up big speakers on the southern side of the demilitarized zone and broadcasting — loudly — news and anti–North Korean propaganda across the border. To some it conjures up images straight out of Monty Python and the Holy Grail ("I fart in your general direction. Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries"). But it's no joke. Cheong Seong-chang, senior fellow at the Sejong Institute, a think tank in Seoul, believes that South Korea's plan to restart these broadcasts will likely infuriate North Korea. "Their military is already in a high state of emotion," Cheong says. And indeed, North Korea has already said publicly that it will shoot at any speakers broadcasting from the southern side of the DMZ. The defense analyst in Seoul says that if Pyongyang were to follow through, it would be "a serious act of aggression, and South Korea must counter it."
Tit for Tat Getting Out of Hand
Shots fired across the DMZ at a time of such tension is a potential disaster waiting to happen. A senior U.S. diplomat concedes that these sorts of incidents "are not at all unlikely to occur" over the next weeks and months. "The key is not letting them escalate. Our side understands acutely the dangers of things getting out of hand." Complicating the situation is that, according to a former senior military official in Seoul, the South Korean government will in all likelihood respond in kind to any future military attack from the North. "We will not do anything in response to the Cheonan [militarily], but I do not expect that that would be the case in any future incidents," says the former official. (See pictures of North Koreans at the polls.)

The impact turns prove China will never actually exert pressure
Victor Cha, CSIS Korea Chair, 12/10/2010, "Five myths about North Korea," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/10/AR2010121002488.html, access 12/12/10

China may have leverage over North Korea, but leverage doesn't work unless it's applied - and China has reason to be timid about exercising its muscle. The demise of the Soviet Union and, more recently, the end of South Korea's "sunshine policy" of unconditional engagement with the North have left the Chinese as Pyongyang's only supporters. President George W. Bush used to tell Beijing that it needed to step up and use its influence to push North Korea to denuclearize. The Obama administration has rightly continued that message. But China's motives are frequently misunderstood. Many see its stance toward North Korea as deriving mostly from ideology ("China is supporting its little communist brother"), incompetence ("China does not know how to discipline its neighbor") or tactical maneuvering ("Beijing wants to keep the United States preoccupied with North Korea while China grows stronger" and "China likes having North Korea as a buffer between itself and South Korea"). While there is some truth to each of these perceptions, Beijing faces a deeper dilemma. Yes, China can cut off oil supplies to try to pressure Pyongyang. But because they are the only ones helping the North, China's leaders are afraid that such a move would collapse the regime and send millions of starving refugees flooding over its border. The Chinese have no easy way of determining how much pressure they should use, so they remain paralyzed, making ineffectual gestures (Chinese diplomat Dai Bingguo's visit to Pyongyang last week falls in this category) and issuing meaningless calls for calm.

Sheer bureaucratic inertia overwhelms
Zhu Feng, CSIS Deputy Director, Peking University, 12/9/2010, "China's North Korean contradictions," http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/12/137_77728.html, access 12/9/10

In the end, Chinese outrage at North Korea usually gives way to refusal to play any part in the demise of its neighbor and one-time ally. More than one Chinese official has told me of holding hearty affection for North Korea’s people. China’s leaders recognize that North Korea is a huge burden for them, but, like loving parents of a rogue son, they cannot bring themselves to disown him. These emotional ties, combined with the usual bureaucratic love of the status quo, are the real cause of China’s failure to overhaul its North Korea policy. Whenever a crisis erupts, China becomes agitated. But, instead of seeking a new path, it re-traces its old steps. Indeed, China’s North Korea policy is dominated by inertia rather than sensitivity to its own national interests. This is not to say that China’s policy on North Korea will never change. But change will require that China’s leaders find a way out of their psychological ambivalence.

We control the outcome of any political debate they cause. Pro-DPRK factions will win out
Andrew Small, German Marshall Fund Transatlantic Fellow, 12/8/2010, "Beijing's Behavior Increases Risk of War in Korea," http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/12/08/china_increases_risk_of_war_in_korea_99305.html, access 12/8/10

China now has become almost reflexively dismissive of international calls to assume responsibility for restraining North Korea. Beijing contends that its current approach of providing virtually unconditional protection to Pyongyang is driven by an overriding concern for stability in its neighborhood and the need to avoid cornering an unpredictable regime in transition.
But China's unwillingness to pursue a balanced response to North Korean aggression is becoming a source of regional instability in its own right. By blocking any effective international response to the sinking of the Cheonan or the shelling of Yeonpyeong, and failing to take credible bilateral measures of its own, it is Seoul that is being pushed into a corner by Beijing. The result, a shortening of the odds on a military rather than a diplomatic escalation on the peninsula in the event of future North Korean attacks, is as harmful to China's interests as anyone else's.
The cables from U.S. diplomats in Beijing published by WikiLeaks have been read as offering hope that Beijing is rethinking its approach. Besides providing evidence of China's frustration with Pyongyang's "spoiled child" behavior, the documents cite the South Korean national security adviser's striking claim to have received assurances from Chinese officials that they believe the peninsula should be reunified under Seoul's control. This is wishful thinking. Anyone looking for a shift in China's approach would observe precisely the opposite phenomenon: while there has undoubtedly been private griping and debate about its North Korea policy, Beijing has notably strengthened its relationship with Pyongyang and has been far less willing to take publicly critical positions than it was a few years ago.
Despite its reputation as the DPRK's protector-in-chief, China did not provide such unequivocal backing in the past. Beijing is believed to have cut off oil supplies in 2003 when Pyongyang pulled out of the NPT. In 2006, it denounced North Korea's nuclear test as "brazen," agreed to a biting UN Security Council Resolution, and cooperated in the freezing of DPRK banking assets. China's bottom line never changed: its concern to avoid overly alienating or weakening the regime has always trumped any desire to force a resolution of any of the issues at stake. But Chinese willingness at least to calibrate its responses to North Korean provocations was an essential element of international efforts to moderate Pyongyang's behavior.
The last three years - and recent months in particular - have seen that calibration virtually disappear. Following the sharpest of the disputes between Beijing and Pyongyang after its first nuclear test, China decided that the re-establishment of closer bilateral ties and the extension of its influence in the country should not be held hostage to the denuclearization issue. Economic and political support from China has since expanded, just as the Lee administration in South Korea has been cutting it back. More recently, China's worries about regime weakness have grown considerably. Kim Jong Il's failing health, a disastrous attempt at currency reform, and uncertainty about succession arrangements shifted Beijing's calculus to focus almost exclusively on considerations of internal stability - and pushed Kim to become yet more reliant on China's support across its vulnerable transition period.

Chinese involvement isn’t effective
Lewis, 10 – National Intelligence Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Nicole, “Reassessing China’s Role in North Korea”, 6/22, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22482/reassessing_chinas_role_in_north_korea.html)

Thus, pushing too hard might drive Kim to raise the stakes by provoking armed conflict with South Korea, almost certainly the United States, and possibly Japan, a worst-case scenario for China. It could also alienate and isolate the new leadership-in-waiting in Pyongyang, something Beijing wants to avoid. In addition, pushing too hard might hasten a collapse, which could result in a flood of North Koreans streaming into China. Chinese leaders are likely to worry that these refugees would overstress the economic and social welfare systems of the areas where they settle.
Beijing may also be concerned about being exposed as having very little sway over Kim. Certainly, China is a major supplier of food and fuel to the North, but the "lips and teeth" relationship that the two countries historically enjoyed effectively died with Kim Il-Sung (Kim Jong-Il's father), and the ties between the two militaries are not nearly what they were in the 1950s when China came to North Korea's aid during the Korean War. As China emerges as a major--and possibly the major--regional power in East Asia, it does not want to risk being publicly flouted by Pyongyang and therefore looking like a paper tiger.
The Chinese leadership almost certainly is thinking about how its actions could set uncomfortable precedents that China might be held to in the future. Beijing probably assesses that its approach to North Korea has a bearing on what the international community will demand from China with respect to sanctions or even military action against Iran. Moreover, Chinese leaders do not want to be seen as interfering in the internal affairs of another sovereign country, a long-standing tenet of Chinese foreign policy that reflects its concern about other states meddling in its affairs on issues like Taiwan and Tibet.

North Korea won’t respond to Chinese pressure
Simon Tisdall, The Guardian staff writer, 12/6/2010, "Obama should stop blaming China over North Korea and start talking," http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/dec/06/north-korea-obama-china, access 12/7/10

What Chinese officials repeatedly state, and what the Americans evidently cannot bring themselves to believe, is that Beijing's influence and leverage over North Korea's leadership is limited. That's why some senior Chinese leaders are fed up with their "spoiled child" and would accept reunification under the South's control, as leaked US diplomatic cables have suggested. Such flexibility is undermined by American head-banging. And what the US fails to explain is exactly what it thinks China has to gain from a nuclear-armed rogue state randomly threatening its neighbours and China's own national interests. 
Precedents suggest that after a certain point is reached, the North does not behave rationally and does not listen to its Chinese ally. That point may be about to be reached again. Obama should stop blaming China, stop pressurising North Korea militarily, and start talking – which, after all, is what he's good at.

====2nr Cards==== 

Insurmountable tech barriers—they have to account for every single one or it’s zero risk
Hoyler 2010 – defense analyst at the Congressional Budget Office, the Center for Naval Analyses, and the Institute for Defense Analyses (Marshall, Naval War College Review, 63.4, “China’s ‘antiaccess’ ballistic missiles and U.S. active defense”, http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/74ed0fae-cc89-4a64-9d6a-5cf6985a6f33/China-s--Antiaccess--Ballistic-Missiles-and-U-S--A, WEA)

Analysts Eric Hagt and Matthew Durnin have reviewed the potential contribution of various kinds of satellites and identified strengths and limitations of each. They say that satellite-borne ELINT (electronic intelligence) and SIGINT (signals intelligence) systems could provide “long-distance early warning.” 14 However, their apparently exhaustive list makes no mention of ELINT satellites. I conclude that China now has few such satellites, if any. As long as that is true, China will be able perform ELINT/SIGINT missions for only part of each day (a large number would be required to keep potential carrier operating areas under continuous surveillance). That limitation matters because the United States can tell when SIGINT satellites come within range of carriers. During those periods, the United States can use emission control (EMCON) to defeat SIGINT. 15 The shorter those periods, the better for the United States, because EMCON can sharply reduce a carrier’s operational effectiveness. 
Of course, China needs other capabilities to enable its satellite constellation to provide targeting-quality data to ASBM launchers. Hagt and Durnin observe that “China . . . lacks C4ISR infrastructure—such as information processing, bandwidth capacity, and network support—needed for wide-area surveillance.” 16 In addition, they note “organizational and bureaucratic barriers impeding the ability of disparate space assets to perform highly time-sensitive missions,” such as precise location of a moving carrier far at sea. 17 Similarly, Thomas Ehrhard and Robert Work state that “even when PRC [People’s Republic of China] engineers fit all of the technical pieces together, it will take even more time for the PLAN, PLANAF, and PLAAF [respectively, the People’s Liberation Army Navy, Naval Air Force, and Air Force] to develop the tactics, techniques, and procedures necessary to convert their disparate systems and combat methods into a truly effective joint operational network.” 18
Despite these obstacles, Hagt and Durnin apparently regard a space-based system as China’s best hope for detecting, locating, and tracking carriers in the foreseeable future. Indeed, they assert that if everything goes as well for China as they think possible to imagine, “a system competent to provide near-real-time regional coverage could be five years away.” 19
A second set of technological challenges confronts China even if it can get targeting-quality data to the mobile transporter-erector launchers (TELs) of its ASBM and launch weapons promptly. Those challenges involve building an ASBM whose reentry vehicle (RV) seeker can identify and track the carrier and guide the RV to hit it. For example, “reentry into the atmosphere . . . would produce a plasma shield, making homing by radar and infrared difficult.” 20 Other technical obstacles include development of “materials needed to protect sophisticated guidance systems during reentry; the ability to function in an environment of higher speed and more severe temperature dynamics than in earlier applications; and the ability to distinguish a target at unusual angles of attack at the distances required for reentry.” 21 


====1nc Korea war advantage==== 

No escalation or extinction
National Post, 2009 [“A ticking bomb on Korean peninsula”, 5-28, Lexis]

Q What are the chances of war? A Very low. North Korea is highly unlikely to repeat its invasion of the South because this would entail a war with the United States that Mr. Kim would certainly lose. Staying in power is Mr. Kim's one overriding aim. If he begins a general war, this would undoubtedly cause the downfall of his regime. Q What are the other possibilities? A Small-scale clashes are likely. The maritime boundary in the Yellow Sea has never been agreed. This could be the setting for naval skirmishes, especially if the United States and South Korea stop and search ships using Northern ports. Q What about North Korea's nuclear weapons? A North Korea is believed to have built a small arsenal of nuclear bombs -- perhaps fewer than 10 -- using plutonium taken from its reactor at Yongbyon. But these are not as threatening as you might think. North Korea has probably failed to convert them into nuclear warheads for delivery by a missile. So dropping the bombs from a plane would be the only way of conducting a nuclear attack. Any military aircraft taking off in North Korean airspace during a war would probably be shot down very quickly. Q So what is the worst that North Korea can do? A The biggest danger for South Korea is that its capital, Seoul, is only 50 kilometres from the border with the North. This means that 20 million South Koreans live within range of Mr. Kim's heavy artillery. North Korea's army deploys 17,900 artillery pieces, many of them aimed at Seoul. In the event of war, these guns could fire between 300,000 and 500,000 high explosive shells at Seoul every hour.

Provocations are decreasing because of stepped up South Korean cooperation with the US
Swenson-Wright, 11 - Associate Fellow with the Asia Programme at Chatham House. (John, “Korea: A Glimmer of Hope,” The World Today, February, http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/publications/twt/archive/view/-/id/2120/)

The exchange of artillery fire between the two Koreas marked a sharp escalation of tensions. This rare instance of the North striking at the land-based territory of the South was a departure from past engagements confined to maritime skirmishes inthe contested area of theWest (orYellow) Sea. Itwas also a stand-off that threatened to escalate very rapidly into a potentially catastrophic full-blown military exchange between the two sides.
Despite these tensions, in January 2011 the mood appears to have changed sharply. Both Korean governments seem to be signalling a much more accommodating, constructive approach to one another in each side's respective New Year's statements, and are expressing a willingness to engage in direct talks as a means of avoiding further conflict. This more ameliorative rhetoric, while welcome, raises important questions about the prospects in 2011 for a genuine improvement in relations between the two Koreas. Worrying as the events of last year have been, one notable benefit has been the beginning of what appears to be a new spirit of resolve and cooperation between the United States and its core Asian allies. Washington has long enjoyed close and effective relations with Seoul and Tokyo. The difference now is that this partnership appears to be evolving from two separate but important bilateral partnerships into a more substantive and somewhat novel trilateral arrangement. Political trilateralism has existed in the past, but the common challenge posed by the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK) appears to be pushing this relationship in a more substantive direction, with scope for new, unprecedented security and intelligence minilateral cooperation between Washington, Tokyo and Seoul.

Even if South Korea responds militarily, the North will back down – empirically
Swenson-Wright, 11 - Associate Fellow with the Asia Programme at Chatham House. (John, “Korea: A Glimmer of Hope,” The World Today, February, http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/publications/twt/archive/view/-/id/2120/)

With domestic politics seemingly driving both Koreas into an uncompromisingly adversarial show-down, President Lee committed the South to carry out further military exercises on Yeonpyeong on December 20. In anticipation of this, the North threatened to retaliate and to launch a 'sacred war' against the South, raising widespread fears that the situation was about to spiral out of control, plunging the peninsula into full-scale war. Yet, at the 11th hour, theNorth blinked, choosing simply to ignore the South's second round of exercises on the island, as well as a much larger set of military manoeuvres that took place on the peninsula proper, close to the 38th parallel, on December 23.
How should one explain this unexpected exercise of self restraint on the part of the North? It may simply have been a demonstration of the effectiveness of deterrence. The Obama administration's deployment of the USS George Washington to the West Sea and its firm and very public support for its South Korean alliance partner reinforced the strategic reality that the North remains outgunned by the US and its ROK ally. Equally important, North Korea's own ally, China, may have played a key role behind the scenes in persuading the DPRK leadership to refrain from further provocations. In public, the Chinese leadership has adhered consistently to a position of not blaming or criticising to the North, However, according to Shen Dingli, a respected international relations specialist at Fudan University, in private (and perhaps in part with added prompting from the US) the Chinese moved in late December to restrain the North.

Provocations inevitable—the plan doesn’t matter
Victor Cha, Georgetown University Government Professor, CSIS Korea Chair, Former Deputy Head of U.S. Delegation to the 6 party talks on North Korea disarmament, Bush Administration Asian Affairs Director, 11/24/2010, "How to Respond to North Korea," http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2010/11/23/how-to-respond-to-north-korea/belligerence-and-internal-weakness, access 11/24/10

The military actions by North Korea today have, in my opinion, very little to do with “frustration” with the American negotiating position or with sanctions. Such a view presumes that all the U.S. need do is sit down with the North and all will be good. As a former negotiator who has sat down for many hours with them, I can tell you that that is far from the problem.
These provocations have to be seen as the latest in a series of belligerent acts — starting with the April 2009 missile test, the May 2009 nuclear test, the March 2010 sinking of the Cheonan, and now this. The government's actions are part of a deliberate strategy to show external strength to the world and its own people as it undergoes a shaky leadership transition. Regimes of this nature do not become passive or nice when they are internally weak. On the contrary, they show belligerence.
The U.S. has a special envoy in the region now. This would be a good opportunity to focus on China’s response. First, the Chinese must clearly state that they condemn the North Korean attack and view it as a violation of the 1953 armistice of which they are a signatory.
Beijing cannot make excuses for the North Korean military strike as it did for the Cheonan sinking. Second, the U.S. and the other permanent members of the Security Council need to consult in the United Nations about what appropriate measures need to be taken to condemn the action. Third, the U.S. needs to consult with its military allies in the region to ensure readiness in case of further provocation.
With the South Koreans in particular, the difficult challenge will be to fashion a response that is strong enough to deter, but not too strong so as to escalate to a war. This is a tough needle to thread.
Some will say that all the North wants is a peace treaty and assistance, but I find this hard to swallow. For the past 20 years, the offer of a peace agreement, energy, food, and diplomatic recognition have been on the negotiation table — whether this was George H.W. Bush’s “modest proposal”; Bill Clinton’s "Agreed Framework;" George Bush’s "Six Party Joint Statement" or Barack Obama’s “Strategic Patience” approach. The problem is not the United States’ approach.

However, provocations won’t escalate to full-blown war
Paul Stares, CFR Center for Preventive Action Director and Conflict Prevention Senior Fellow, 8/12/2010, “Handling Tensions on the Korean Peninsula," http://www.cfr.org/publication/22788/handling_tensions_on_the_korean_peninsula.html, access 12/7/2010

Other than firing some coastal artillery and detaining a South Korean fishing boat that recently strayed into North Korea waters, Pyongyang has responded primarily with belligerent rhetoric and apocalyptic warnings. The recent ROK-U.S. naval exercises, for example, elicited threats of a "retaliatory sacred war." But by historical standards, such bombast is unexceptional. The recent North Korean provocations also pale in comparison to earlier attacks and skirmishes, most notably during the late 1960s when, among other things, the Blue House--South Korea's presidential residence--was attacked, or in the 1980s when the South Korean cabinet was bombed during a visit to Burma.
These far-worse periods of inter-Korean tensions never ignited another war, and the incentives to prevent this from happening are even greater today. South Korea fears losing its hard-won prosperity, while a much weaker North knows that it would never survive another major conflict.

ROK will not overreact DESPITE pressure
Thatcher, 2010 [“South Korea won't retaliate alone for ship sinking,” 4-23, http://www.canada.com/news/Korea+seizes+Korean+assets+warns/2942805/story.html]

SEOUL - South Korea on Friday gave the clearest signal to date it had no plan to launch a revenge attack if it turns out, as widely suspected, North Korea sank one of its navy vessels last month near their disputed border. The reclusive North says it had nothing to do with the downing of the Cheonan, which sank after an explosion, killing 46 sailors. A South Korean military intelligence report leaked to the local media said the North had almost certainly torpedoed the ship. "Just as the investigation is being conducted with international co-operation, we'll try to co-operate with the international community in taking necessary measures when the results are out," President Lee Myung-bak told a group of visiting foreign journalists. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that North Korea should not take provocative actions following the allegations it may have sunk the South Korean ship, and should resume talks on ending its nuclear programs. "We have said time and time again that the North Koreans should not engage in provocative actions, and that they should return to six-party talks," she told reporters at a NATO foreign ministers' meeting in Estonia. The sinking of the ship is an issue fraught with risks for South Korea's Lee. If he were to launch a military attack on his impoverished neighbour, it would be the South that would come off worse, with investors likely to take fright at the threat of conflict across the Cold War's last frontier just as the economy is recovering fast from the global financial crisis. "I hope that there is no talk of war, there is no action or miscalculation that could provoke a response that might lead to conflict. That's not in anyone's interests," Clinton said. Lee needs to prevent turning the emotionally charged affair into a weapon for his political opposition at home ahead of June local elections which could, if his ruling party suffers a serious setback in the polls, damage his authority and ability to push through promised pro-business reforms. Though the government has faced criticism for being unprepared, most of it so far has been channelled towards the military and the defence minister. The last part of the wreck is expected to be lifted to the surface this weekend to allow an international team of investigators to find out what actually caused the explosion. North Korea said it would seize assets in an east-coast mountain resort just north of the border developed by a South Korean firm and put them under state ownership or sell them to foreign buyers as compensation for lost income. Tours to the Mount Kumgang resort, which earned Pyongyang tens of millions of dollars a year in hard cash, were suspended in 2008 after a North Korean soldier shot and killed a South Korean tourist who wandered into a restricted area. Lee this week infuriated the North, whose media routinely describes him as a traitor to Korea and the pawn of a hostile United States, by saying it should stop wasting money on grand displays and spend the money on its near-starving population. He was referring to last week's huge fireworks display in the capital Pyongyang to mark the anniversary — called the Day of the Sun — of the birth of state founder Kim Il-sung, who died in 1994 but is its eternal president with his son the actual ruler. Lee has ended years of generous aid and announced a plan of massive investment across the border if the North gives up building nuclear weapons — an offer Pyongyang has rejected out of hand. 

The plan causes unrestrained regional arms racing
Wimbush 2008 – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down.” In “What If? A World without the U.S.-ROK Alliance.” Ed. by Nicholas Eberstadt, Aaron L. Friedberg & Geun Lee. Asia policy, number 5 (january 2008), 7–24) 

Third, because everyone sees beforehand that the United States is departing, changes to the strategic and security landscape commence long before the actual pull-out of U.S. troops from South Korea. Indeed by the time troops depart most actors have designed strategies that anticipate the consequences of U.S. withdrawal. Rather than a one-time event, this scenario is a long process with many different timelines and expectations. 
Fourth, in this scenario incentives to go nuclear are extremely powerful. Japan is likely to be the trigger, Taiwan will likely move in this direction, and even South Korea will find the strategic logic of becoming a nuclear weapons state difficult to resist. Thus, a wave of proliferation could flow: if Japan goes nuclear, Indonesia, Australia, Malaysia, and perhaps others will likely be close behind. 
Fifth, the rapid shifting of alliances and relationships in this scenario is creating strange bedfellows—some for only tactical advantage, some issue-based and of short duration. This strategic dance will accelerate and intensify as the breakdown of the U.S.-ROK alliance becomes evident. Any attempt by South Korea to go it alone in this world is difficult to imagine; to the contrary, Seoul’s objectives will need to be adjusted to reflect the realities of the new partnerships occurring around South Korea.
Sixth, in the absence of the alliance—or even with the threat of dissolution—a number of other actors rapidly acquire incentives to stimulate the ROK’s sense of threat from North Korea. 
Seventh, the Japan that eventually emerges from this process—more nationalistic, assertive, well armed, and nuclear—may not be the Japan other Asian countries wish to see. Japan has over the last few decades tempered its historical persona among Asians who used to fear first and foremost that this Asian state would become a “normal nation.” Do the dynamics associated with a breakdown of the U.S.-ROK security alliance encourage the evolution of a Japan that is again “abnormal”?

China can’t manage regional affairs—only America can
Taylor and Schreer 2011 – Senior Lecturers at the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre, Australian National University (Feb., Benjamin Schreer and Brendan Taylor, Survival, 53.1, “The Korean Crises and Sino-American Rivalry”)

For much of the past two decades, America's approach toward the Asia-Pacific has been seen by many as highly disjointed, the product either of strategic inattention or the push and pull of US domestic politics. Meanwhile, the rise of China has spawned a cottage industry asserting the existence of a carefully calibrated and highly calculated Chinese grand strategy for the Asian century. Rising China, according to this line, may be biding its time and hiding its capabilities, but it is ultimately bent upon displacing American power in Asia. 
The two recent crises on the Korean Peninsula triggered by North Korea's sinking of the South Korean Navy corvette Cheonan in March 2010 and its shelling of Yeonpyeong Island in November challenge these assumptions. The United States has emerged from these crises as a stronger Asia-Pacific power. Washington has used the military, economic and diplomatic instruments at its disposal in a highly integrated fashion, reinforcing the foundations of its Asia-Pacific strategy in the process. This augurs well for the persistence of US primacy in Asia. 
Beijing's responses to the crises, by contrast, show a power struggling to execute its strategy. China has failed to balance its immediate needs with its longer-term objectives. Its capacity to use the various instruments of its growing power in a coherent manner has been limited, suggesting that Beijing may lack the ability to bring together the complex range of variables needed to implement an effective, longer-term grand strategy. This, in turn, raises questions over whether China has truly arrived as a great power.
Uncoordinated China
While China officially describes its grand strategy in terms of 'peaceful development' and aspirations of a 'harmonious world', most observers agree that its ultimate long-term objective is to secure influence in Asia commensurate with its growing power. Yet China's responses to the recent Korean crises have moved it further from that goal.
China's crisis behaviour has opened distance between it and South Korea, which for two decades has been regarded as a significant prize in emerging strategic competition between China and America. Beijing's month-long delay in offering condolences to Seoul over the Cheonan sinking and its unwillingness to criticise Pyongyang's provocations in both instances has generated deep public resentment in South Korea. Chinese diplomacy has been uninspiring and obstructionist. Beijing has called for calm, which has been tantamount to doing nothing. It has urged the international community to contribute more to reducing tensions, yet stymied all efforts to address these crises through the UN Security Council. Its preferred alternative is a re-starting of the Six-Party Talks. Once the centrepiece of China's so-called new diplomatic approach, this mechanism has for years now failed to produce, in Edward Luttwak's terms, 'anything more than hot air'.1 
The Cheonan and Yeongpyeong crises have also emphasised the yawning gap between Chinese and American military power. Washington has responded to these crises by holding large-scale bilateral military exercises with South Korea and Japan. Reflecting its paucity of alliance partners - a further sharp contrast with the United States China ran its own round of live-fire drills in July 2010. Because of opposition from Beijing, a US-South Korea drill moved from the Yellow Sea to the eastern side of the peninsula the same month. Yet symbols are important in security politics, and the sight in November 2010 of the USS George Washington exercising in the Yellow Sea sent a message not only to Pyongyang, but to the Asian region generally about the limits of Chinese military power and influence.
The crises have exposed China's limited capacity to effectively use its growing economic power in the service of grand-strategic objectives. While Washington continues to call upon Beijing to exert economic leverage against North Korea, what these crises reveal is how little sway China really has over Pyongyang. Beijing was caught off guard on both occasions. China appears also to have lost the strategic gains made over the past two decades through closer trade ties with South Korea. 
Perhaps most importantly, the Cheonan and the Yeongpyeong crises suggest that China may still lack the requisite domestic political foundations to effectively implement a grand strategy. Beijing's impotence is partly the product of its strong historical ties and sense of obligation to North Korea. While this is not to deny the existence of increasing pluralism in Beijing's North Korea policy debate, China's burgeoning foreign-policy bureaucracy still shows a preference for maintaining the status quo. Peking University Professor Zhu Feng has observed that, as a consequence, 'Chinese policy has come to be defined by inertia rather than an accurate evaluation of China's national interests'.2 Like North Korea, China too has a looming leadership transition that will require placating key domestic constituencies, especially the military, which is generally sympathetic to Pyongyang's predicament. One must also keep in mind that China's leadership remains preoccupied with delivering domestically, which renders grand strategy a secondorder issue. The irony is that it is China's Asia-Pacific grand strategy, not America's, that appears to be the product of distraction and the conditioning influence of domestic political constraints.

Libya means North Korea will never give up its nukes
Frank, 11 - Professor of East Asian Economy and Society at the University of Vienna and Deputy Head of the Department of East Asian Studies (Ruediger, “Libyan Lessons for North Korea: A Case of Déjà Vu,” 3/21, http://38north.org/2011/03/libyan-lessons-for-north-korea/)

When the various uprisings began in North Africa and the Middle East in January 2011, the combination of wishful thinking and a lack of knowledge led some to hope for a similar process to occur in North Korea. Drawing such parallels, however, overlooked the very different domestic situation and the dim chances for a coordinated grass roots movements in the DPRK.*
Nonetheless, the latest developments in Libya will have a strong effect on North Korea. The Pyongyang leadership, like the rest of the world, has been watching the massive aerial attacks over the weekend. The North Koreans must feel alarmed, but also deeply satisfied with themselves. After all, this is at least the third instance in two decades that would seem to offer proof that they did something right while others failed and ultimately paid the price.
The first such instance was Gorbachev’s foolish belief that his policies to end the arms race and confrontation with the West would be rewarded by respect for the Soviet Union’s existence and support for its faltering economy. On the contrary, his empire was destroyed piece by piece by Western support of anti-communist governments in its European satellites and independence movements in various (now former) Soviet Republics. In the end, the reformer was ousted, NATO was expanded, and his once mighty country was weakened and ridiculed. Others had an even less desirable fate, such as Romania’s Ceausescu or East Germany’s Honecker.
The second instance was Saddam Hussein’s Iraq. Humiliated after a quick defeat in the First Gulf War, Hussein accepted Western control over about half of his airspace in 1991 and had to suffer regular small-scale attacks on ground targets for more than a decade. Sanctions led to the “oil for food” program of 1995. However, his compliance did not save Hussein’s regime from allegations of hiding weapons of mass destruction, and ultimately from complete annihilation in the Second Gulf War.
Now, there is Libya’s Gaddafi. It was not so long ago that it was popular in political circles to urge Kim Jong Il to follow Gaddafi’s example. On February 14, 2005, the conservative South Korean newspaper Chosun Ilbo even reported that then ROK Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and current UN Secretary General, Ban Ki Moon, was sent to Libya to urge Mr. Gaddafi to visit North Korea and persuade Kim Jong Il to abandon his nuclear weapons. The Libyan dictator as an ambassador of disarmament and peace—how was that possible? In December 2003, after long negotiations with the West, Libya had surprisingly announced that it would give up its programs for developing weapons of mass destruction and allow unconditional inspections. This earned Gaddafi immediate praise from Washington and London, followed by a prestigious invitation to Paris in December 2007, where he met President Sarkozy twice.
How will the North Korean leaders likely interpret this? In all three cases, the West’s demands were satisfied. Most importantly, serious concessions were made in the military field. The Soviets abandoned the political option to use their WMD and entered into disarmament programs; the Iraqis allowed the West meticulous surveillance; and Libya gave up its WMD programs and allowed inspections to make sure these would not be restarted. It received, among other things, a $10 billion deal with France in return—and now French jets were the first to bomb government troops.
To put it bluntly, in the eyes of the North Korean leadership, all three countries took the economic bait, foolishly disarmed themselves, and once they were defenseless, were mercilessly punished by the West.
It requires little imaginative power to see what conclusions will be drawn in Pyongyang. If there was anybody left at all in the elite who would dare try to persuade his leaders to sit down with the West and find a way to denuclearize, he will now be silent. Those who thought that the economic price of the military-first policy was too high will stand corrected. Not yielding an inch on the nuclear question will continue to be the key paradigm of North Korea’s foreign policy for the foreseeable future.

Chinese involvement isn’t effective
Lewis, 10 – National Intelligence Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Nicole, “Reassessing China’s Role in North Korea”, 6/22, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22482/reassessing_chinas_role_in_north_korea.html)

Thus, pushing too hard might drive Kim to raise the stakes by provoking armed conflict with South Korea, almost certainly the United States, and possibly Japan, a worst-case scenario for China. It could also alienate and isolate the new leadership-in-waiting in Pyongyang, something Beijing wants to avoid. In addition, pushing too hard might hasten a collapse, which could result in a flood of North Koreans streaming into China. Chinese leaders are likely to worry that these refugees would overstress the economic and social welfare systems of the areas where they settle.
Beijing may also be concerned about being exposed as having very little sway over Kim. Certainly, China is a major supplier of food and fuel to the North, but the "lips and teeth" relationship that the two countries historically enjoyed effectively died with Kim Il-Sung (Kim Jong-Il's father), and the ties between the two militaries are not nearly what they were in the 1950s when China came to North Korea's aid during the Korean War. As China emerges as a major--and possibly the major--regional power in East Asia, it does not want to risk being publicly flouted by Pyongyang and therefore looking like a paper tiger.
The Chinese leadership almost certainly is thinking about how its actions could set uncomfortable precedents that China might be held to in the future. Beijing probably assesses that its approach to North Korea has a bearing on what the international community will demand from China with respect to sanctions or even military action against Iran. Moreover, Chinese leaders do not want to be seen as interfering in the internal affairs of another sovereign country, a long-standing tenet of Chinese foreign policy that reflects its concern about other states meddling in its affairs on issues like Taiwan and Tibet.

China won’t get involved:

The aff isn’t enough of a concession
Carpenter, 1ac author, 10—vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, 3 August 2010, China Spats, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778, RBatra)

If we want China to take on serious risks to tame North Korea, we have to offer some incentives. Promising to assist Beijing in dealing with the probable refugee problem would seem to be the absolute minimum. In all likelihood, Chinese leaders would also want a commitment to phase out American military bases in Korea if the North Korean threat were neutralized. Yet Washington has not offered the slightest hint of concessions on either issue. U.S. officials implicitly expect Beijing to accept the risks entailed in getting tough with Pyongyang but receive nothing at all in return.
Likewise, getting China to be more restrained in its South China Sea territorial claims may require concession on other issues. A trade-off might involve recognizing more limited Chinese claims in that area, combined with a willingness to cut back on U.S. arms sales to Taiwan. There may be other possibilities, but the underlying point is that Washington must be prepared to be flexible. 
Finally, if we are going to focus—as we should—on issues that have direct relevance to important American interests, U.S. policy makers need to de-emphasize topics that are less relevant. However much China's domestic human-rights policies might offend us, we can do little about them. And they are not especially pertinent to America's economic and security interests. That is equally true regarding Beijing's regrettable treatment of Tibet. We're simply not going to prevail on such issues, and turning them into acrimonious disputes needlessly riles the crucial U.S.-China relationship.
Setting priorities and understanding that diplomatic bargaining and a willingness to make concessions is usually necessary to get desired results on important issues is the mark of an adept, effective policy. Unfortunately, that realism seems largely absent in the American foreign-policy community regarding relations with China. 

China doesn’t believe pressure will be effective, so they won’t act
Jayshree Bajoria, CFR Senior Staff Writer, 10/7/2010, "The China-North Korea Relationship ," http://www.cfr.org/publication/11097/chinanorth_korea_relationship.html, access 12/6/10

Also, China does not wish to use its leverage except for purposes consistent with its policy objectives and strategic interests, say experts. Choo writes, "After all, it is not about securing influence over North Korean affairs but is about peaceful management of the relationship with the intent to preserve the status quo of the peninsula." This CFR.org Crisis Guide offers an in-depth analysis of the dispute on the Korean peninsula.
Washington's Role
The United States has pushed North Korea to verifiably and irreversibly give up its nuclear weapons program in return for aid and diplomatic benefits, and eventually normal diplomatic relations with Washington. Experts say Washington and Beijing have very different views on the issue. "Washington believes in using pressure to influence North Korea to change its behavior, while Chinese diplomats and scholars have a much more negative view of sanctions and pressure tactics," Pinkston says. "They tend to see public measures as humiliating and counterproductive."

No impact to DPRK specifically
Lee 07 – Research Fellow, EWC Washington. Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago (December 07, Dong Sun, “A nuclear North Korea and the stability of East Asia: a tsunami on the horizon?” Australian Journal of International Affairs, Volume 61 Issue 4, informaworld)

My analysis implies that Pyongyang's neighbours must avoid overreactions to its nuclear development. Although it is certainly preferable to see North Korea free of nuclear weapons, its armaments cannot dramatically undermine regional security by itself in the short run. Also, the DPRK nuclear development will not have unmanageable repercussions on the global system. The North Korean armament is more likely to remain an isolated incident than to trigger a domino effect, because all the concerned states want to avoid the latter event and thereby preserve the non-proliferation regime. While the bad precedent set by Pyongyang might encourage other nuclear aspirants like Iran, the international society would simultaneously develop a heightened sense of crisis and therefore show stronger resolve to prevent further spread of nuclear weapons and reinforce the global regime. The resultant increased efforts for deterrence and interdiction (e.g., the Proliferation Security Initiative) could stop Kim Jong Il from transferring sensitive materials to potential buyers, although the effectiveness of these measures has been questioned (Chestnut 2007). Therefore, if living with a nuclear-armed Pyongyang is inevitable for a while due to lack of an effective solution, it is imperative to avoid overreacting and unnecessarily exacerbating latent dangers that include an inadvertent war in the Korean peninsula and an unnecessary arms race among major powers.

Mutual dependence checks trade escalation.
Stokes 6 (2/9/2006, Bruce, YaleGlobal, "America’s China Worries–Part II" http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/article.print?id=8733) 

Any actions from Congress or the administration will be tempered by the mutually dependent nature of Sino-American trade and the conflicting self-interest of US multinational firms. China’s exports are only now beginning to impact American industry–so the political backlash has yet to come. And China bashing may never be as severe as Japan bashing in the 1980s, if only because the US manufacturing sector is far smaller today, so fewer people face losing their jobs. Moreover, one consequence of years of US investment in China is that Beijing now has hostages. Powerful American companies deeply involved in China have much to lose in a Sino-American trade war. They will lobby hard against meaningful trade action. Failure of the Bush administration to file a long-threatened WTO case against alleged Chinese failure to protect intellectual property rights–an action Hollywood once championed and now, at least in part, opposes–is an indication of the leverage such multinational firms exert in Washington. Finally, as concerned as Americans are about Chinese economic power, they worry more about Beijing’s military might. China is a military and creditor superpower in a way Japan never was. Thus Beijing must be accorded deference, even if it galls many Americans. Sino-American tensions will worsen because the underlying economic frictions have rubbed relations raw, as underscored by the WTO case. But a higher visibility for problems in the relationship should not be confused with a breakdown in relations. More skirmishes do not make a war. There is not yet the wherewithal or the leverage in Washington for a knockdown drag-out fight with Beijing over trade.

Leaders will terminate rivalries to free up money and refocus on the economy
Bennett and Nordstrom 2000 – Department of Political Science at Penn State (Scott and Timothy, Journal of Conflict Resolution, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” February 2000, EBSCO)

In this analysis, we focus on using economic conditions to understand when rivalries are likely to escalate or end. Rivalries are an appropriate set of cases to use when examining substitutability both because leaders in rival states have clearly substitutable choices and because rivalries are a set of cases in which externalization is a particularly plausible policy option.7 In particular, when confronted with domestic problems, leaders in a rivalry have the clear alternatives of escalating the conflict with the rival to divert attention or to work to settle the rivalry as a means of freeing up a substantial amount of resources that can be directed toward solving internal problems. In the case of the diversion option, rivals provide logical, believable actors for leaders to target; the presence of a clear rival may offer unstable elites a particularly inviting target for hostile statements or actual conflict as necessary. The public and relevant elites already consider the rival a threat or else the rivalry would not have continued for an extended period; the presence of disputed issues also provides a casus belli with the rival that is always present. Rivals also may provide a target where the possible costs and risks of externalization are relatively controlled. If the goal is diversion, leaders will want to divert attention without provoking an actual (and expensive) war. Over the course of many confrontations, rival states may learn to anticipate response patterns, leading to safer disputes or at least to leaders believing that they can control the risks of conflict when they initiate a new confrontation. In sum, rivals provide good targets for domestically challenged political leaders. This leads to our first hypothesis, which is as follows: Hypothesis 1: Poor economic conditions lead to diversionary actions against the rival. Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in rivalries may pursue when faced with internal problems. Military competition between states requires large amounts of resources, and rivals require even more attention. Leaders may choose to negotiate a settlement that ends a rivalry to free up important resources that may be reallocated to the domestic economy. In a “guns versus butter” world of economic trade-offs, when a state can no longer afford to pay the expenses associated with competition in a rivalry, it is quite rational for leaders to reduce costs by ending a rivalry. This gain (a peace dividend) could be achieved at any time by ending a rivalry. However, such a gain is likely to be most important and attractive to leaders when internal conditions are bad and the leader is seeking ways to alleviate active problems. Support for policy change away from continued rivalry is more likely to develop when the economic situation sours and elites and masses are looking for ways to improve a worsening situation. It is at these times that the pressure to cut military investment will be greatest and that state leaders will be forced to recognize the difficulty of continuing to pay for a rivalry. Among other things, this argument also encompasses the view that the cold war ended because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States. Hypothesis 2: Poor economic conditions increase the probability of rivalry termination. Hypotheses 1 and 2 posit opposite behaviors in response to a single cause (internal economic problems). As such, they demand a research design that can account for substitutability between them. 

====1nc China advantage==== 

Interests will inevitably diverge – the aff can’t solve, they address only address one small issue in China’s sphere
Schneider, 2/2/11 - assistant professor of Chinese at University of Massachusetts, Amherst, where he teaches Chinese literature and China in international affairs (David, “China, America and The Realities of Power in Asia,” 
http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Asia/China-America-and-The-Realities-of-Power-in-Asia.html

U.S.-China relations over the past two years have been a tale of two diplomacies. Secretary of State Clinton and Deputy Secretary Steinberg have been promoting a new American leadership designed to create "a new global architecture" that will "help integrate emerging powers into an international community with clear obligations and expectations." American diplomacy, according to this vision, will help China and the other emerging nations to overcome the mistrust and suspicion that blocks international cooperation and burden sharing. The rise of a new global middle class and a shared sense of common threat and common interest will open new opportunities to make China and other emerging powers global and regional “anchors of stability” that cooperate, under American leadership, to uphold international law and universal rights.
Yet, sharp ground-level exchanges over Iran, naval activities in the Yellow, East, and South China Seas and the valuation of the yuan are clear signs that the interests of the two powers are growing increasingly divergent. The inevitable failure to realize this vision of great power condominium will not be due to mistrust, an inability to see common interests, or, as many suggest, the interference of domestic politics on both sides, but rather to the changing, and clashing, long-term realities of power in Asia.
A concert of great powers can work only if all parties agree on the political composition of the global order, and are satisfied with the distribution of military and economic power. This was the case in the European order from the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 to the beginning of the Crimean War in 1853 – Metternich’s Concert of Europe. Contemporary Asia is in no way similar.
Beijing and Washington do not share a common vision of the global political order. A critical mass of non-democratic governments, especially around its periphery, is geopolitically vital for China. These political imperatives underlie Beijing’s consistent refusal to cooperate with the United States’ proposed P5+1 alignment against the Iranian nuclear program. Maximum control over events in Central Asia has for centuries been essential to China’s security. Threats to China’s stability and even political existence traditionally have come from this region. The Han, Tang, Song and Qing dynasties were all fatally weakened upon the loss of this region to non-Chinese tribes and Arab powers. In the twentieth century, tensions and clashes with Soviet power along China’s northern and western borders were a major factor in driving Beijing toward strategic entente with America in the 1970’s.
Ever since the demise of the USSR, Beijing has been striving to integrate Central Asia into its political and economic orbit, with the strategic objective of preventing the penetration of any political influences that might destabilize Xinjiang and Tibet, or leave China vulnerable to military coercion. Iran is the geopolitical anchor of this system. Sanctions that might lead to regime change in Tehran would threaten that order, and thereby, eventually, China’s own internal security.
Similar political realities have undermined another Washington attempt at a concert of powers, the Six Party Talks concerning the North Korean nuclear program. The Korean Peninsula is the strategic key to Manchuria and to China’s coastal security. The 1894 Sino-Japanese War was a contest between the two powers for influence in Korea. China’s loss led to a weakened Qing position in Manchuria and along the coast that invited further aggression from Japan, Russia and the European powers. In the Korean War in the 1950s, China spent, by some estimates, over a million lives to keep North Korea in existence and in the Sino-Soviet sphere. Beijing is unlikely to take any action to undermine a regime that acts as a buffer against the United States, South Korea and Japan. Recent events show the opposite. China has boosted its economic aid and investment programs in North Korea, and Beijing has been particularly reluctant to use its considerable leverage over Pyongyang to force concessions on its nuclear weapons program. Indeed, Kim Jong Il’s recent visit to China, just as he is working to effect a smooth leadership transition, indicates that Beijing will remain deeply invested in the present North Korean regime.
In military terms, China is clearly a revisionist power, profoundly dissatisfied with the present Asian security system, a reality that will seriously limit prospects for any architecture of collective security. America projects power in Asia through military alliances with Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Philippines, Australia, New Zealand, as well as through a new strategic relationship with India, and a system of bases in South Korea, Japan, Guam, and Diego Garcia that keeps the sea lanes open, maintains stability on the Korean Peninsula, the Taiwan Strait, the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, and, in a larger frame, between China and Japan. The People’s Republic has always viewed this reality as strategic encirclement.
China’s challenge to this order is accelerating with its new-found economic power. Beijing has declared the South China Sea a “core national interest” and has moved to enforce its territorial claims to the Senkaku Islands (Diaoyutai Islands in Chinese), and the Spratly Islands, and to other economic resources in the Western Pacific, particularly oil. All of these actions are provocations against American allies and friends in the Pacific.
Beijing is moreover beginning to back up these moves with the development and deployment of the naval power necessary to make them credible and lasting. China is developing a new anti-ship ballistic missile that can hit ships as far away as 1,000 miles, and is far more effective than a cruise missile. New weapons, plans to field a blue-water navy, complete with aircraft carriers, and new maritime relationships with Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, are vivid signs that Beijing intends to assert itself not just as a regional hegemon, but as a naval power capable of operating all the way from the North Pacific to the Arabian Sea.

Structural improvement in US-Sino relations is impossible – both military complexes have vested interests in confrontation
Shambaugh, 11 - professor of political science and international affairs and director of the China Policy Program, George Washington University, and a nonresident senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program and Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution (David, “US-Chinese Relations Take a New Direction? – Part I,” Yale Global, 1/24, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/print/6798)

Looking to the future, cooperative moves by both sides will likely take place in a “parallel” rather than joint fashion. Whether the issue is North Korea or Iran, commercial or currency differences, release of imprisoned dissidents or increasing press freedoms, Beijing’s ability to appear to be overtly cooperating with a US agenda will be severely constrained by domestic nationalistic pressures and bureaucratic constituencies. The Chinese military, internal security and intelligence services, protected domestic industries, and the Communist Party propaganda apparatus all have vested institutional interests in countering American influence and, to some extent, benefit from an antagonistic relationship with the United States. For its part, the US military, intelligence services, protectionist and xenophobic elements in Congress, the human rights community, and other domestic actors similarly have a stake in an adversarial relationship with China.
While these domestic actors will no doubt play their constraining roles, for the moment both sides seem pleased with the outcome of the summit. Whether they can now convert the improved atmosphere into practical gains remains to be seen.

No possible US-Sino action on warming
Hale, 11 - PhD Candidate in the Department of Politics at Princeton University and a Visiting Fellow at LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics (Thomas, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing,” Washington Quarterly, Winter, http://www.twq.com/11winter/docs/11winter_Hale.pdf

Intergovernmental efforts to limit the gases that cause climate change have all but failed. After the unsuccessful 2010 Copenhagen summit, and with little progress at the 2010 Cancun meeting, it is hard to see how major emitters will agree any time soon on mutual emissions reductions that are sufficiently ambitious to prevent a substantial (greater than two degree Celsius) increase in average global temperatures.
It is not hard to see why. No deal excluding the United States and China, which together emit more than 40 percent of the world’s greenhouse gases (GHGs), is worth the paper it is written on. But domestic politics in both countries effectively block ‘‘G-2’’ leadership on climate. In the United States, the Obama administration has basically given up on national cap-and-trade legislation. Even the relatively modest Kerry-Lieberman-Graham energy bill remains dead in the Senate. The Chinese government, in turn, faces an even harsher constraint. Although the nation has adopted important energy efficiency goals, the Chinese Communist Party has staked its legitimacy and political survival on raising the living standard of average Chinese. Accepting international commitments that stand even a small chance of reducing the country’s GDP growth rate below a crucial threshold poses an unacceptable risk to the stability of the regime. Although the G-2 present the largest and most obvious barrier to a global treaty, they also provide a convenient excuse for other governments to avoid aggressive action. Therefore, the international community should not expect to negotiate a worthwhile successor to the Kyoto Protocol, at least not in the near future.

Warming tipping points inevitable – too late
NPR 9 (1/26, Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says, All Things Considered, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)

Climate change is essentially irreversible, according to a sobering new scientific study.
As carbon dioxide emissions continue to rise, the world will experience more and more long-term environmental disruption. The damage will persist even when, and if, emissions are brought under control, says study author Susan Solomon, who is among the world's top climate scientists.
"We're used to thinking about pollution problems as things that we can fix," Solomon says. "Smog, we just cut back and everything will be better later. Or haze, you know, it'll go away pretty quickly."
That's the case for some of the gases that contribute to climate change, such as methane and nitrous oxide. But as Solomon and colleagues suggest in a new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, it is not true for the most abundant greenhouse gas: carbon dioxide. Turning off the carbon dioxide emissions won't stop global warming.
"People have imagined that if we stopped emitting carbon dioxide that the climate would go back to normal in 100 years or 200 years. What we're showing here is that's not right. It's essentially an irreversible change that will last for more than a thousand years," Solomon says.
This is because the oceans are currently soaking up a lot of the planet's excess heat — and a lot of the carbon dioxide put into the air. The carbon dioxide and heat will eventually start coming out of the ocean. And that will take place for many hundreds of years.
Solomon is a scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Her new study looked at the consequences of this long-term effect in terms of sea level rise and drought. 



==Politics== 


===1nc EPA regs=== 

Obama will use the EPA to regulate GHG emissions—capital is key to defeating Republican efforts to undercut the EPA’s efforts 
Cohen 12/28/10 (Steven, Executive Director @ The Earth Institute, Columbia University, Defending EPA Against the Coming Right Wing Attack, 2010, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steven-cohen/defending-epa-against-the_b_801876.html) 

Last week I wrote that it is good politics for President Obama to protect and defend EPA:
Right wing efforts to curtail EPA and slow down environmental regulation and enforcement will fail and can easily be painted as the views of extremists. Protecting the environment remains as mainstream an issue as you can find. People define environmental quality as a form of security and think of it as a way that they protect their families and the health of their children. The notion that environmental regulation "kills jobs" competes with the more powerful perception that pollution is poison that can make your family sick. While environmental regulation must be portrayed as "reasonable" and regulatory agencies must move prudently and without arrogance, public support for environmental protection remains strong. People like to breathe air, drink water and eat food that is not poisoned by toxins.
I am not alone in my concern about the attack that is coming. On December 24 the New York Times lead editorial was entitled: "A Coming Assault on the EPA." That editorial predicted that: 
Republicans in the next Congress are obviously set on limiting the Environmental Protection Agency's authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate a wide range of air pollutants -- even if it means denying the agency money to run its programs and chaining its administrator, Lisa Jackson, to the witness stand.
I don't see the symbolic posturing or preening Representatives as a threat to the EPA, but the cynical right wing strategy of "starving the beast" by cutting funding could pose a grave threat to this chronically underfunded agency. EPA is a very decentralized and relatively small federal agency. Throughout the anti-environmental Bush years, EPA was starved financially. When Bush came into office in 2001 EPA's annual budget was about $8 billion and by the time he left it had declined to about $7.5 billion. These data are not presented in constant dollars, and so the purchasing power of EPA's budget declined substantially during the Bush years. EPA had a staff of about 18,000 when Bush arrived at the White House, by the time he left it had declined to about 17,200. Most of EPA's staff is not in Washington but in the ten regional offices around the nation that work closely with state and municipal governments to manage our environment. Under President Obama, the EPA's resource picture has been improving. The agency's budget is finally over $10 billion, and the staff size is gradually approaching 18,000 again.
Since funding bills must begin in the now Republican controlled House of Representatives, the threat to EPA's funding is real. President Obama will need to use his political capital to defend the EPA's budget. Ten billion dollars may be a lot of money, but not when compared to the entire federal budget. In the military budget it would be a rounding error. While defending EPA will be good politics, it is even better public policy. America is learning that sustainable economic development requires the protection of our ecosphere. Polluting the planet poisons our water, air and food and impairs human health and well being. We have already spent hundreds of billions of public and private dollars on toxic waste clean up. The Chinese government will soon be learning the same lesson as it pays the costs of its rapid economic expansion. BP learned that lesson last summer in the Gulf of Mexico.
A well-funded EPA can help us manage the environment and ensure that the benefits of our economic growth outweigh the costs. An underfunded EPA is asking for more disasters like the massive oil spill in the Gulf. The cause of that catastrophe was under-regulation. Do we really want to incur similar risks throughout our economy? The President should begin to make clear his support for EPA's work and its need for resources. He should work to reinforce the EPA's support with the general public in an effort to inoculate the agency against the coming right wing attack.

Solves warming – reduces GHG’s, gets modeled globally, & sparks broader US efforts
Clean Energy News 12/30 (12/30/10, "EPA Greenhouse Gas Limits to Take Effect in 2011", http://blog.cleanenergy.org/2010/12/30/epa-greenhouse-gas-limits-to-take-effect-in-2011/)

Despite what you may have heard about the United States’ continuing failure to address the dangers of global climate change, on January 2, 2011 greenhouse gases (GHGs) will, for the first time ever, be subject to regulation by EPA under the Clean Air Act (CAA). The new “Tailoring” rule will require the largest emitters of GHGs, such as refineries, power plants and cement production facilities, to limit their GHG emissions if they trigger the new regulations by building new emissions sources or making major modifications to existing sources.
While this new GHG permitting program is not the result of much needed Congressional action, and it is far from a silver bullet, it does represent a very significant first step in finally addressing global warming pollution from major sources at the federal level.
The new GHG paradigm is rooted in a 2003 decision by President Bush’s EPA, in which they refused to address GHG pollution from motor vehicles on the grounds that GHGs are not pollutants. In 2007 the United States Supreme Court disagreed with the Bush EPA and found that carbon dioxide and other GHGs are pollutants under the CAA. In the wake of that ruling, EPA undertook a scientific review and determined that GHGs “cause or contribute” to global climate change and “endanger” human health and welfare as a result. Based on these findings EPA promulgated rules to limit GHG emissions from automobiles.
The CAA requires that when a pollutant is regulated under any provision of the Act—for example, when GHG is regulated from automobiles—that the pollutant must also be regulated under the New Source Review Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program. PSD applicability means that permitting authorities will set enforceable numeric limits on GHG emissions from many polluters. The PSD program, however, is a sweeping program that applies to stationary sources and could conceivably cover emitters of GHGs including small farms, hospitals, restaurants and shopping centers. President Obama’s EPA saw that such a broad regulation would be unworkable and therefore adopted a “Tailoring Rule” so that the new PSD requirements would apply only the very largest GHG emitters - power plants and the like.
The new GHG permitting regime will initially apply only to new sources with very significant GHG emissions and even then, only if the source must also undergo PSD review for a pollutant other than CO2 or another GHG. By next summer the permitting requirements will apply to major new sources of GHGs and sources with modifications that significantly increased GHG emissions. Over the next year EPA will consider how to expand GHG permitting in the future.
While these are fairly sizable limits on GHG regulation, the tailored approach will actually cover 70% of national GHG emissions from stationary sources.
The new paradigm will limit GHGs primarily through the use of Best Available Control Technology (BACT). When a GHG source triggers the permitting requirements, the state permitting authority for a polluting facility will have to establish an emissions limit based on the reductions that a facility could achieve if they installed the best pollution reduction technology. The permitting authority will arrive at these BACT limits through a case-by-case analysis, meaning that each new permit will be evaluated individually. This system is different than BACT in some other situations where states or EPA set a BACT limit that applies to all facilities. Unfortunately, the case-by-case approach benefits polluters by allowing them to lobby for weaker limits. On the other hand, when a draft permit is complete, the public will also have the chance to weigh in and suggest stricter BACT limits.
Despite some shortcomings, GHG permitting, of course, has a number of benefits. The most obvious benefit is that it will ultimately help to reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, for the first time, there will be a legally mandated opportunity for citizens to get involved by commenting on GHG permits and challenging GHG emissions because the CAA permitting program creates a pathway for public input. Finally, the incorporation of GHGs into the CAA is a significant symbolic victory demonstrating that the United States can still respond to pressing environmental issues.
The new GHG regulatory framework is only a very modest first step in the long-delayed effort to respond to global climate change and it has come about through complicated legal and bureaucratic channels, not through the political will of enlightened statesmen. While the new rules are an important first step to reducing the massive dumping of GHGs into our atmosphere, a more comprehensive, lasting and impactful plan has to come from Congress and from international cooperation. Nevertheless, the first step is often the hardest. As the regulatory authority continues to broaden and people further understand that the benefits of reducing GHGs far outweigh the speculative burdens, then this first step may not be seen as a trifle, but instead as proof that the United States really can help to slow our changing climate. 

Warming risks extinction
Cummins and Allen ‘10 (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as James Hansen are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions by 20-40% as soon as possible, and 80-90% by the year 2050, if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels. Either we radically reduce CO2 and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution, or else survival for the present and future generations is in jeopardy. As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the carrying capacity of the Earth in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people. Under this hellish scenario, billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. If the U.S. significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions, other countries will follow. One hopeful sign is the recent EPA announcement that it intends to regulate greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Unfortunately we are going to have to put tremendous pressure on elected public officials to force the EPA to crack down on GHG polluters (including industrial farms and food processors). Public pressure is especially critical since "just say no" Congressmen-both Democrats and Republicans-along with agribusiness, real estate developers, the construction industry, and the fossil fuel lobby appear determined to maintain "business as usual."



===**Warming bad impacts**=== 

Warming turns nuke war 
Campbell et al 2007 [Kurt, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change,” CSIS, November, p. 3, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071105_ageofconsequences.pdf] 
In the case of severe climate change, corresponding … shift in the relationship of humankind to nature. 

Fast anthropogenic warming now 
Rahmstorf, 8- Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University (Richard. Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto. Edited by Ernesto Zedillo. “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” Page 42-49) 
It is time to turn to statement B: human … is a reality with which we need to deal. 

Warming is real ---- overwhelming data shows significant temperature increases ---- humans are the cause 
Science , 7 (Richard A. Kerr, “CLIMATE CHANGE: Scientists Tell Policymakers We’re All Warming the World”, Vol. 315, No. 5813, February 9, p. 754-757) 
They've said it before, but this time climate … lower latitudes will decrease, leading to more drought. 

Warming is anthropogenic 
Brown, 8 – Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S. [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] 
Scientists at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies … more C02 accumulates in the atmosphere, tem­peratures go up. 

Greenhouse gases lead to warming through feedback loops—established scientific consensus 
Stern, 7 —Head of the British Government Economic Service (Nicholas, Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 7-8) 
The causal link between greenhouse gases concentrations and … and traps more heat, amplifying the initial warming. 

Feedbacks are net positive—must act now to prevent runaway warming 
Hansen, 8 – head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor … .” April. http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf) 
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur quickly in response … . A major casualty in all this will be wildlife. 

The rate of climate change is accelerating three times more rapidly than predicted – must act now to stop warming. 
Lean, 7 – Environment Editor for The Independent [Geoffrey Lean, June 3 2007, The Independent, “Global warming 'is three times faster than worst predictions'”, <http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/climate-change/global-warming-is-three-times-faster-than-worst-predictions-451529.html>] 
Global warming is accelerating three times more quickly … estimate by IPCC computer models of 2.5 per cent. 

New studies show that adding CO2 to clouds evaporates them, letting solar radiation onto Earth and triggering positive feedback mechanisms and further warming 
Kerr, 8 – earth and planetary sciences writer at Science magazine (Richard A., February 15 “Global Warming: Another Side to the Climate-Cloud Conundrum Finally Revealed”, Science Magazine, Vol. 319, No. 5865, p. 889) 
Clouds have always given climate modelers fits. The … faster than they have the past few decades. 

Even a small rise in global temperature would lead to mass starvation despite CO2 fertilization—the result is extinction 
Strom 7 –Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, Robert, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216) 
THE future consequences of global warming are the … economic chaos with all their ramifications for civilization. 

Fertilization effect is not enough to offset the negative consequences of warming 
Stern, 7—Head of the British Government Economic Service (Nicholas, Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 70) 
Carbon dioxide is a basic building block for crop … thresholds for crop production are reached more often. 

Warming will halt photosynthesis overwhelming any benefits of C02 
Brown, 8 – Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] 
Higher temperatures can reduce or even halt photosynthesis, … at 40 degrees Celsius, leading to crop failure.IR '' 

Turn--CO2 boosts weeds more than crops—recent studies prove 
Southwest Farm Press, 2008 [4/9/08, Climate change may be fueling a new generation of more aggressive weeds, http://southwestfarmpress.com/news/climate-weeds-0409/] 
Is global warming fueling a new generation of more … , where carbon dioxide and temperature reflected background conditions. 

CO2 depletes soil nutrients offsetting any carbon gains 
Christian Korner et al, 7 – professor of botany at University Basel, 2007 [also Jack Morgan, plant physiologist at USDA and faculty member in the Crops and Soils Department at Colorado State University, and Richard Norby, researcher in the Environmental Sciences Division at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, CO2 Fertilization: When, Where, How Much?, p. 9-10] 
It is obvious that these carbon investments also … , during which carbon is more likely a limiting resource. 

Increased CO2 decreases CO2 intake 
Strom, 2007 – Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at University of Arizona [Robert, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, "Hot House", p. 123] 
It has been suggested that the increase in … in less C02 uptake by plants, not more. 

The Idsos receive funding from major coal and oil companies, and have been on the Western Fuels payroll. 
Union of Concerned Scientists, 7 (“Responding to Global Warming Skeptics—Prominent Skeptics Organizations”, http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science/skeptic-organizations.html) 
Greening Earth Society The Greening Earth Society (GES) was founded on Earth .. Craig Idso, Keith Idso, Sylvan Wittwer 

The Idsos don’t have a peer review, and fill their work with meaningless jargon 
Union of Concerned Scientists, 2000 (“Misinformation About Climate Science”, February, http://www.ucsusa.org/ssi/archive/climate-misinformation.html) 
In an attempt to bank on the … a separate entity from the Greening Earth Society. 


===1nc Korea FTA=== 

KORUS deal will pass, but capital is key to securing votes 

Palmer 1/5/11 (Doug, Reuters, "2011 could be Obama's year of trade," http://www.nationalpost.com/news/features/2011+could+Obama+year+trade/4063959/story.html)


WASHINGTON — After years of trade policy stalemate, there could be big strides in 2011 with approval of U.S. trade deals with South Korea, Panama and Colombia, Russia’s entry into the World Trade Organization and perhaps even the end of the longest-ever round of global trade talks.
The Republican takeover of the House, a sluggish U.S. economic recovery and President Barack Obama’s goal of doubling exports could combine to spur action on several fronts, analysts say.
“It might be a very big year,” said Ed Gresser, president of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council.
Government data shows U.S. exports likely grew about 17% last year, one of the fastest rates ever as world trade bounced back from a historic slump brought about by the financial crisis.
But Obama needs exports to grow about 15% annually during the next four years to double them, which will be difficult without new market-opening agreements, Gresser said.
With U.S. consumers rebuilding battered balance sheets, the economy will need to lean more heavily on the export sector. Stronger U.S. export growth in turn would help bring about a more-balanced pattern of global trade.
The White House took a big step toward winning congressional approval of the South Korea pact in December by renegotiating auto provisions to win the support of the United Auto Workers and Ford Motor Co.
Many Democrats still oppose the deal and are even more steadfast in opposition to the Colombia agreement but newly empowered Republicans are eager to pass all three trade deals.
“The unknown is to what extent the Republican leadership will demand to vote on all three” if Obama balks at submitting one or both of the Latin American pacts, said Dan Griswold, director of the Cato Institute’s trade policy section.
Both Gresser and Griswold said they believed there would be votes to pass all of them if Obama made a big push.

KORUS is key to global trade liberalization 
Hill 07 (Chris, Asst Secretary for East Asian/Pacific Affairs @ State Dept., "The United States-South Korea FTA: The Foreign Policy Implications," http://cc.bingj.com/cache.aspx?q=the+KORUS+fta+will+give+impetus+to+global+trade+liberalization&d=4562582578987016&mkt=en-US&setlang=en-US&w=189a795d,7ccf3009)

Fourth, and finally, the KORUS FTA will give impetus to global trade liberalization: By demonstrating that two large, advanced economies can conclude a high- quality agreement eliminating both tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, the KORUS FTA could help spur further trade liberalization both within the Asia- Pacific region and globally. It will send a signal to our other trading partners, encouraging them to open their economies and creating a competitive dynamic that would spur more rapid progress on the multilateral trade liberalization front.

Free trade checks nuclear war
Copley 1999 (12/1, Copley News Service, Lexis)

For decades, many children in America and other countries went to bed fearing annihilation by nuclear war. The specter of nuclear winter freezing the life out of planet Earth seemed very real. Activists protesting the World Trade Organization's meeting in Seattle apparently have forgotten that threat. The truth is that nations join together in groups like the WTO not just to further their own prosperity, but also to forestall conflict with other nations. In a way, our planet has traded in the threat of a worldwide nuclear war for the benefit of cooperative global economics. Some Seattle protesters clearly fancy themselves to be in the mold of nuclear disarmament or anti-Vietnam War protesters of decades past. But they're not. They're special-interest activists, whether the cause is environmental, labor or paranoia about global government. Actually, most of the demonstrators in Seattle are very much unlike yesterday's peace activists, such as Beatle John Lennon or philosopher Bertrand Russell, the father of the nuclear disarmament movement, both of whom urged people and nations to work together rather than strive against each other. These and other war protesters would probably approve of 135 WTO nations sitting down peacefully to discuss economic issues that in the past might have been settled by bullets and bombs. As long as nations are trading peacefully, and their economies are built on exports to other countries, they have a major disincentive to wage war. That's why bringing China, a budding superpower, into the WTO is so important. As exports to the United States and the rest of the world feed Chinese prosperity, and that prosperity increases demand for the goods we produce, the threat of hostility diminishes. Many anti-trade protesters in Seattle claim that only multinational corporations benefit from global trade, and that it's the everyday wage earners who get hurt. That's just plain wrong. First of all, it's not the military-industrial complex benefiting. It's U.S. companies that make high-tech goods. And those companies provide a growing number of jobs for Americans. In San Diego, many people have good jobs at Qualcomm, Solar Turbines and other companies for whom overseas markets are essential. In Seattle, many of the 100,000 people who work at Boeing would lose their livelihoods without world trade. Foreign trade today accounts for 30 percent of our gross domestic product. That's a lot of jobs for everyday workers. Growing global prosperity has helped counter the specter of nuclear winter. Nations of the world are learning to live and work together, like the singers of anti-war songs once imagined. Those who care about world peace shouldn't be protesting world trade. They should be celebrating it.



===1nc CR disad (Harvard finals)=== 

Compromise on the continuing resolution is coming—Ryan and Democratic leaders predict a budget deal
Norington 2/22/11 (Brad, Washington correspondent @ The Australian, "US parties in compromise mood," http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/us-parties-in-compromise-mood/story-e6frg6so-1226009686535)

A SENIOR Republican is predicting a compromise deal with Democratic Party opponents to continue budget funding that would avoid a feared US government shutdown.
Paul Ryan, the new chairman of the House of Representatives budget committee, said yesterday he expected an agreement with President Barack Obama's Democrats on "short-term extensions" of government funding past a cut-off date of March 4.
Mr Ryan's remarks were an attempt to hose down talk of a government shutdown similar to what occurred in late 1995 during a budget standoff between the Clinton administration and the Republican-controlled house.
Republicans are keen to avoid a repeat of 1995 when their party took the brunt of public blame for a stop to government funding that temporarily halted wages for public servants, social security payments and a range of government services.
Mr Ryan's comments came after the Republican-controlled house voted early on Saturday, US time, to cut $US61 billion ($60.2bn) in government spending, slashing funding for many government programs.
The budget committee chairman said he did not think that the Senate, still controlled by the Democrats, would pass these cuts.
But he also signalled that Republicans were looking for a deal on extending government funding as long as some "interim" spending cuts were settled.
"I don't think the Senate will pass these cuts," Mr Ryan said on CBS. "We will have to negotiate. Look, we're not looking for a government shutdown. But at the same time, we're also not looking at rubber-stamping these really elevated spending levels that congress blew through the joint two years ago." The US congress has still not given final approval for this year's budget, instead putting off its decision after mid-term elections in November by voting to extend government funding until March 4.
That decision effectively postponed debate until after the Republicans took control with a house majority last month when 87 new members took their seats.
Many from this new batch of Republicans with ultra-conservative Tea Party movement support want deeper spending cuts than their own leadership, which could make compromise with Democrats difficult. The funding cuts passed in the house vote are brutal. They include an end to monitoring of pollution levels and funding for the US Public Broadcasting Service. Senate Democrats will flatly refuse to accept these cuts, as Mr Ryan acknowledged.
But Democrat house budget committee member Chris Van Hollen indicated yesterday his party might be open to compromise: "Paul and I agree on more than you might think on some of these issues." Even if an extension of funding is agreed and a government shutdown is avoided, it would still put off a final vote on this year's budget.

The plan is political suicide
Harrison 2002 [Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement,” p. 180-182]

Why has the presence of U.S. ground forces in South Korea remained politically inviolate in Washington for nearly five decades? Part of the answer lies in the searing psychological legacy of the Ko¬rean War and the resulting imagery of North Korea as irrational and threatening, a new "Yellow Peril," an imagery inflated by fears that it will develop long-range missiles. This imagery has persisted despite the North-South summit meeting of June 2000 and the subsequent visits of North Korea's second-ranking leader, Vice-Marshal Jo Myong Rok, to Washington, and of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to Pyong¬yang. Indeed, Albright was widely criticized for legitimizing a brutal dictatorship. Some of the answer lies in the superficial appeal of the strategic argu¬ments examined in part 5: that the U.S. presence helps stabilize a volatile part of the world and that any change in the U.S. posture would be seen as a "retreat" from Asia. But the key reason why the United States is stuck to South Korea "like Brer Rabbit was to the Tar Baby" is that Seoul has shown remarkable skill and determination in resisting any change. The impact of the negative images and the positive strategic ar¬guments has been maximized over the years by sustained and effective South Korean lobbying efforts, aided by sympathizers in the Pentagon and in defense industries with a stake in Korea. The payoffs to members of Congress exposed in the 1976 "Koreagate" scandal were not isolated cases. A former Washington station chief of the South Korean CIA, Gen. Kim Yoon Ho, has told of how he arranged support for legislation relating to U.S. military aid and the U.S. force presence by channeling big export contracts to states with cooperative representatives in Congress, especially exports subsidized under a variety of U.S. economic and military aid programs. The manipulation of pricing in such contracts offered easy opportunities for rake-offs to middlemen. In South Korean eyes, anything that will keep the United States in South Korea is morally justified because Washington was largely to blame for the division of the peninsula and remains obligated to stay until reunifica¬tion is achieved. "The South Korean Embassy swings a lot of weight in Washington," observed David E. Brown, former director of Korean affairs in the State Department, in 1997. "Long-tended friendships between conservatives in both capitals give extra potency to the political clout they wield."' South Korean influence in Washington has been reinforced by the sup-port of legions of U.S. military officers with fond memories of their years in Korea. The semi-imperial trappings of U.S. military life there are epito¬mized by three eighteen-hole golf courses, one of which occupied some of the most valuable real estate in Seoul until former Ambassador James Lilley persuaded the U.S. Army to relocate it. "The pain it took to do this," Lilley recalled, "is symptomatic of the military's resistance to giving up its perks. They told me about how they have to keep up morale to retain personnel, but you can't do this at the expense of your relations with the host country."" For officers with their families, the nine U.S. military installations in the South are self-sufficient enclaves equipped with most of the comforts of home and largely insulated from the local society. For the footloose, there are kiesang hostesses, the Korean equiva¬lent of Japanese geisha. Most important, for the top brass of the U.S. Army, Korea is the last and only place left in the world where a four-star general can be a "commander in chief" presiding over an operational command in a foreign country. All of the nine other "CinCs" with re¬gional and functional commands have their headquarters in the United States.

Political capital key to crafting a compromise to avert government shutdown 
NPR 2/21/11 ("Memories of 1995 Haunt GOP As Shutdown Talk Grows," http://www.npr.org/templates/text/s.php?sId=133914697&m=1)

Many Democratic and Republican lawmakers say it's almost inevitable, and essential, that Obama step in to avert a shutdown. Only a president, they say, has the stature, clout and public megaphone to craft a compromise when congressional partisans seem dug in. And for now, they seem deeply dug in.

Failure to come to a compromise over the CR results in a government shutdown—this tanks the US and global economies 
Sherwell 2/19/11 (Philip, London Telegraph, "US shutdown looms as budget war rage," http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/financetopics/recession/8335823/US-shutdown-looms-as-budget-war-rages.html)

Fears over the strength of the US economic recovery were growing last night after a highly unusual all-night session of the Republican House of Representatives agreed to slash the federal budget by $61bn by the end of September.
The deal, thrashed out in the early hours, was immediately condemned by US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, who said the cuts would hit the fragile economy.
It now appears there will be a potentially damaging stand-off between President Barack Obama and Republican leaders with a possible shut-down of the federal government if agreement cannot be reached in the next fortnight.
"The continuing resolution as passed by the House would undermine and damage our capacity to create jobs and expand the economy," Mr Geithner said at the G20 summit in Paris yesterday.
President Obama has already pledged to veto the aggressive cuts. The proposal must now be debated by the Senate, the upper chamber of Congress, where Democrats hold a slim majority. There is a growing danger the federal government will close down on March 4 if a compromise short-term spending deal cannot be struck between the White House and two houses of Congress. Such paralysis is likely to damage US economic prospects and therefore the chances of continuing global recovery.

Econ decline causes global catastrophe and nuclear war
Harris and Burrows, 9 - *counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC), the principal drafter of Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World AND **member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_burrows.pdf)

Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier.
In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn.
The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises.
Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.



==TNW Neg== 
===Turkey relations disad=== 

A. Uniqueness: U.S./Turkey relations high despite flotilla and sanctions vote
Rozen, 10 (6/21/10, Lauren, AnchorThe Politico, “Obama's Turkey bind” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=5C17F193-18FE-70B2-A816756177F83C1E)
Turkey, meanwhile, is demanding that Israel apologize for … getting nuclear weapons,” a senior administration official told POLITICO. Anchor

B. Plan kills relations – TNW’s strengthen the bond between the U.S. and Turkey
Kibaroglu 05 - Assistant professor in the department of international relations at Bilkent University (December 2005, Mustafa, European Security: “Isn't it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?” Vol 14, No. 4, pg. 443-457, Informaworld)
However, the fundamental reason why Turkish officials want … Turkish and American analysts would prefer to term it)

C. Relations solve Middle East stability, terrorism, oil conflicts, and free trade, Iraq, Russia Oil dependence
Menon and Wimbush, 07 - Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations, Lehigh University Fellow, New America Foundation AND Director, Center for Future Security Strategies, Hudson Institute. (3/25/07, Rajan and S. Enders, Hudson Institute: “Is the United States Losing Turkey?” http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf )
If Turkey, a key friend and ally, turns away … use to infiltrate Iraq and Turkey’s other neighbors.

D. Central Asian oil conflicts leads to regional arms races that escalate into great power wars
Klare 2008 (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College “The rise of the new energy world order,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html)
A growing risk of conflict. Throughout history, major … hands of those who control its global distribution.

===Turkey prolif disad=== 

TNWs prevent Turkey prolif
NTI, 9 – Nuclear Threat Initiative, a non-ideological organization that strengthens global security by reducing the risk of use and preventing the spread of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons (August, “Turkey Profile,” http://www.nti.org/e_research/profiles/turkey/index.html)
Turkey is not known to possess nuclear, chemical, … -Inter Rao-Park Teknik is still under consideration.[10]

The link ­­­is huge—they’ll go nuclear without our nukes there
David S. Yost, July 09. (Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, Ph.D. in international relations at the University of California (1979). “Assurance and US extended deterrence in NATO,” International Affairs 85.4, Ebsco International Affairs)
Alternative to the pursuit of national nuclear forces … weapons, all three individuals agreed that it would.30

The impact is nuclear war, rapid prolif, and terrorism
Henry Sokolski, 6/14/2007. Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, Former Fellow @ National Institute for Public Policy and Heritage, MA @ U Chicago. “What Nuclear Challenges Might the EU Meet?” Keynot Address @ Conference “The EU facing Nuclear Weapons Challenges,” http:www.npec-web.org/Presentations/20020616-Sokolski-Talk-AixEnProvence-Conference.pdf
Many officials within NATO are inclined to draw … increase the prospect for nuclear terrorism and war.

===Deterrence counterplan=== 

The United States federal government should offer formal security guarantees to Israel, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, and all Gulf States except Iran to protect them in the event of Iranian aggression. The United States should inform Iran that the use of nuclear weapons, by Iran or by a terrorist proxy, will be met with a response that ends the current regime in Iran, and that an Iranian nuclear test constitutes a redline that could trigger stepped up United States attempts at regime change or United States attacks against Iranian oil assets.

Security assurances to the Gulf States solve the impact to proliferation
Madson, 06 – master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School (Peter, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”, March, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
This status of nuclear-weapon programs in the … joining a nuclear umbrella to offset Iran’s nuclear weapons.

The U.S. should retreat to a policy of declaring red lines – this will restore U.S. deterrence credibility
Colby, 07 - adjunct staff member at the RAND Corporation and former staff member in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Elbridge, “Restoring Deterrence”, Orbis, Summer)
As it happens, however, the conventional wisdom in … policy of the satisfied power.

Only a credible, unified threat of force will cause Iran to give up nuclear weapons—if it sees the choice between nuclear weapons and regime survival, it will choose survival
Kedar, 07 (4/1, Mordechai, lecturer in the Department of Arabic at Bar-Ilan University, and a research associate at the Begin-Sadat (BESA) Center for Strategic Studies, “The Iranian Dilemma: Preventing Iran from Acquiring Nuclear Capabilities”, http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives27.html)
The experience in recent years has proven that … and well understand the nature of the threat.

The U.S. can deter Iran by holding its oil infrastructure hostage
Kupchan, 07 - director, Europe and Eurasia, at the Eurasia Group (Cliff, “Revisiting Iran?”, The National Interest, March-April)
So the United States probably faces a choice between … that may lose domestic legitimacy in coming years.

===Terrorism advantage=== 

No retaliation
Jenkins-Smith 04 – professor of government at Texas A&M (Hank, “U.S. Public Response to Terrorism: Fault Lines or Bedrock?,” Fall 04, http://www.spp.gatech.edu/current-students/exams/Fall-2004_reviewmanuscript.pdf)
Our final contrasting set of expectations relate to … military retaliation moderated significantly over the following year.

This advantage is silly—there is no impact ever
Gavin 2010 – Tom Slick Professor of International Affairs, Director of the Strauss Center for International Security and Law at UT Austin (Francis, International Security, “Same As It Ever Was; Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the Cold War”, http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/isec.2010.34.3.7)
The possibility of a terrorist nuclear attack on the … popular wisdom on the topic is significantly flawed.”59

===Turkey cred advantage=== 

Turkish diplomacy high
Taqui 10—Deputy Editor, Pakistan Observer. PhD (Jassim, Turkish diplomacy reflects hope, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=34100)
Turkey has shown the way to the UN … military means to resolve regional and global issues.

No impact—cred fails
A) Structurally unable to solve their impacts
Schleifer, 10 - freelance journalist based in Istanbul, Turkey, where he works as a correspondent for the Christian Science Monitor and the Eurasianet website, covering Turkey and the surrounding region (Yigal, “Nuclear Posturing”, 4/15, http://istanbulcalling.blogspot.com/2010/04/nuclear-posturing.html)
It's hard to criticize some of the sentiment … on a subject that is, to say the least, explosive.

B) Their Feffer evidence takes out the advantage – Obama blocks Turkish diplomacy when it’s needed
Feffer, 10 [John, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Stealth Superpower: How Turkey Is Chasing China to Become the Next Big Thing”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/06/14-0]
A friend to all sides, Turkey is offering … of one day brokering peace in the Middle East.

NO ISRAEL STRIKES

No will or ability
Pollack, 06 - Director of Research, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, the Brookings Institution (Kenneth, “Council on Foreign Relations Symposium on Iran -- Session 3”, Federal News Service, 4/5, lexis)
MR. POLLACK: I think the Israelis know for a fact … a deafening silence out of Jerusalem on this one.

Empirically denied and very unlikely
Keiler, 10 [7/25/10, Jonathan F , former captain in the Army's Judge-Advocate General Corps, The American Thinker, “Surprise! Why An Israeli Strike on Iran is Unlikely”, http://www.americanthinker.com/2010/07/surprise_why_an_israeli_strike.html
If Israel does launch a military strike against Iran's … set of complex reasons that they were restrained.

NO IRAN PROLIF

Arguments about the Iranian nuclear program are exaggerated hysteria, there’s no risk of adventurism, attacking Israel, terrorism, or regional prolif
Amuzegar, 06 - finance minister and economic ambassador in Iran's pre-1979 government. (Jahangir, Middle East Policy, “Nuclear Iran: perils and prospects”, 6/22, lexis)
Questioning the validity of objections to a nuclear-powered … habit of always looking for the best deal.

Deterrence solves the impact
Hendrickson and Tucker, 06 (David, Distinguished Service Professor at Colorado College, and Robert, professor Emeritus of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “A Test of Power”, The National Interest, Sept/Oct, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=11900)
The consensus view that Iran could not be … opinion in America as a sort of moral certainty.

Iran is rational and risk averse – no miscalc and it will be deterred
Boroujerdi and Fine, 07 - Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Middle Eastern Studies Program at Syracuse University AND graduate student in International Relations at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University (Mehrzad and Todd, “A NUCLEAR IRAN: THE LEGAL IMPLICATIONS OF A PREEMPTIVE NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY: IRANIAN NUCLEAR MIASMA”, 57 Syracuse L. Rev. 619, lexis)
Second, the rhetoric of describing Iranian leaders, particularly … potential channels of communication in case of crisis.

Gulf states won’t seek nuclear weapons in response – they want economic stability
Madson, 06 – master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School (Peter, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”, March, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
The Arab Gulf States: Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, … likely impact these matters will have on U.S. interests.

Iranian opacity will decrease the risk of war and additional proliferation
Kaye and Wehrey, 07 - Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation AND International Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation (Dalia and Frederic, Survival, “A Nuclear Iran: The Reactions of Neighbours”, June)
How Iran crosses the nuclear ...of their own enrichment capability.

Nuclear weapons will moderate Iranian rhetoric on Israel and it will decrease terrorism
Madson, 06 – master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School (Peter, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”, March, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A445779&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
To Iran, Israel is an extension of ...undesired escalation.

Nuclear weapons induce caution and moderation, decreasing the risk of war
Waltz, 07 - senior research scholar at Columbia University and Emeritus Ford Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley (Kenneth, Journal of International Affairs, Spring, “A NUCLEAR IRAN: PROMOTING STABILITY OR COURTING DISASTER?”, proquest)
Kenneth Waltz: Thank you very much, Dick, for that ...sleep well.

==Afghanistan COIN neg== 

===Withdrawal/credibility disad=== 

Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war
Kagan and Kagan, 9 - former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)
It is very likely that the insurgency will grow in size and strength in 2010 faster than Afghan security forces can be developed without the addition of significant numbers of American combat troops.
If the United States should adopt a small-footprint counterterrorism strategy, Afghanistan would descend again into civil war. The Taliban group headed by Mullah Omar and operating in southern Afghanistan (including especially Helmand, Kandahar, and Oruzgan Provinces) is well positioned to take control of that area upon the withdrawal of American and allied combat forces. The remaining Afghan security forces would be unable to resist a Taliban offensive. They would be defeated and would disintegrate. The fear of renewed Taliban assaults would mobilize the Tajiks, Uzbeks, and Hazaras in northern and central Afghanistan. The Taliban itself would certainly drive on Herat and Kabul, leading to war with northern militias. This conflict would collapse the Afghan state, mobilize the Afghan population, and cause many Afghans to flee into Pakistan and Iran.
Within Pakistan, the U.S. reversion to a counterterrorism strategy (from the counterinsurgency strategy for which Obama reaffirmed his support as recently as August) would disrupt the delicate balance that has made possible recent Pakistani progress against internal foes and al Qaeda.
Pakistani president Asif Ali Zardari, army chief of staff General Ashfaq Kayani, and others who have supported Pakistani operations against the Taliban are facing an entrenched resistance within the military and among retired officers. This resistance stems from the decades-long relationships nurtured between the Taliban and Pakistan, which started during the war to expel the Soviet Army. Advocates within Pakistan of continuing to support the Taliban argue that the United States will abandon Afghanistan as it did in 1989, creating chaos that only the Taliban will be able to fill in a manner that suits Pakistan.
Zardari and Kayani have been able to overcome this internal resistance sufficiently to mount major operations against Pakistani Taliban groups, in part because the rhetoric and actions of the Obama administration to date have seemed to prove the Taliban advocates wrong. The announcement of the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces would prove them right. Pakistani operations against their own insurgents--as well as against al Qaeda, which lives among those insurgents--would probably grind to a halt as Pakistan worked to reposition itself in support of a revived Taliban government in Afghanistan. And a renewed stream of Afghan refugees would likely overwhelm the Pakistani government and military, rendering coherent operations against insurgents and terrorists difficult or impossible.
The collapse of Pakistan, or even the revival of an aggressive and successful Islamist movement there, would be a calamity for the region and for the United States. It would significantly increase the risk that al Qaeda might obtain nuclear weapons from Pakistan's stockpile, as well as the risk that an Indo-Pakistani war might break out involving the use of nuclear weapons.

It also annihilates international cred. Emboldens adversaries and sends a global that we’re undependable.
Twining ‘9 (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)
The surreal belief in some quarters that abandoning Afghanistan -- described as a "graveyard of empires" with its complicated tribes, forbidding terrain, and peripheral strategic importance -- would not have direct and bloody consequences for the United States, never mind the Afghan people, can be answered with three numbers: 9-11. It is troubling that our political and foreign policy elites even need to engage this debate (including its more sophisticated but equally illusory variants like moving to an "over-the-horizon" strike-and-retreat strategy). At the same time, the experts (correctly) advocating a counterinsurgency strategy make the same mistake of framing their arguments purely with reference to Afghanistan's internal dynamics. As important as they are, they constitute only part of a wider strategic landscape that would be upended by a U.S. decision to reduce its political and military commitment to Afghanistan. A recent trip to Islamabad and Lahore revealed to me that most Pakistani elites -- including the small minority that could credibly be described as sympathetic to Western goals in Afghanistan -- already believe that the game is up: the will of the transatlantic allies is broken, Obama doesn't have the courage or vision to see America's mission in Afghanistan through to victory, and the U.S. is well along the road to walking away from Afghanistan as it did after 1989. This widespread Pakistani belief has encouraged behavior deeply inimical to Washington's regional aims, with the effect that the American debate over whether Afghanistan is worth it is inspiring Pakistani actions that will make success all the harder to achieve. After all, why shouldn't the Pakistani security services continue to invest in their friendly relations with the Taliban if Mullah Omar and company soon will take power in Afghanistan's Pashtun heartland? Why should the Pakistani military take on the militant groups that regularly launch cross-border attacks into Afghanistan when the NATO targets of those attacks will soon slink away in defeat? Why should the Pakistani government get serious about wrapping up the Quetta Shura when the Afghan Taliban appears to be ascendant in the face of Western weakness? Why should Pakistan's intelligence service break its ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, one of the world's most potent terrorist groups, when it forms such a useful instrument with which to bleed U.S. ally India? And why should Pakistani civilian and military leaders overtly cooperate with the United States when it appears such a weak and unreliable ally of the Afghan people -- incapable, despite its singular wealth and resources, of defeating a 25,000-man insurgency in one of the poorest countries on Earth? As Chris Brose and I recently argued, it is vital for the West to prevail in Afghanistan because of its effect in shaping Pakistan's strategic future. Proponents of drawing down in Afghanistan on the grounds that Pakistan is the more important strategic prize have it only half right: if Pakistan is the strategic prize, it should be unthinkable not to press for victory in Afghanistan given the spillover effects of a Western defeat there. All of Pakistan's pathologies -- from terrorist sanctuary in ungoverned spaces, to radicalized public opinion that creates an enabling environment for violent extremism, to lack of economic opportunity that incentivizes militancy, to the (in)security of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, to the military's oversized role in political life in ways that stunt the development of civilian institutions -- all of this will intensify should Afghanistan succumb to the Taliban as the West withdraws. These dynamics, in turn, will destabilize India in ways that could torpedo the country's rise to world power -- and the strategic dividends America would reap from India's success. New Delhi is now a truer proponent of Washington's original objectives in Afghanistan -- the Taliban's decisive defeat by military force rather than reconciliation and the construction of a capable Afghan democracy -- than some American leaders are now. Afghanistan is in India's backyard -- they shared a border until 1947 -- and the collapse of its government would destabilize Pakistan in ways that would quickly cost Indian dearly. Indian strategists fear that the spillover from a Taliban victory in Afghanistan would induce Pakistan's "Lebanonization," with the Pakistani Taliban becoming a kind of South Asian Hezbollah that would launch waves of crippling attacks against India. India cannot rise to be an Asian balancer, global security provider, and engine of the world economy if it is mired in interminable proxy conflict with terrorists emanating from a weak or collapsing state armed with nuclear weapons on its border. The strategic implications of a Western defeat in Afghanistan for American relations with other major powers are similarly troubling. The biggest game-changer in the nuclear standoff with Iran is not new sanctions or military action but a popular uprising by the Iranian people that changes the character of the radical regime in Tehran -- a prospect one would expect to be meaningfully diminished by the usurpation through violence of the Afghan government, against the will of a majority of Afghans, by the religious extremists of the Taliban. And despite welcome new unity in the West on a tougher approach to Iran's development of nuclear weapons following revelations of a new nuclear complex in Qum, how can Washington, London, Paris, and Berlin stare down the leaders of Iran -- a potentially hegemonic Middle Eastern state with an advanced conventional and near-nuclear arsenal and a vast national resource base -- if they can't even hold their own against the cave-dwelling, Kalashnikov-wielding despots of the Taliban? Russia appears to be quietly reveling in the prospect that NATO, which appeared so threatening to Russian eyes during its multiple rounds of enlargement during the 1990s, could be defeated in its first real out-of-area operation. A NATO defeat in Afghanistan would call into question the future of the alliance and the credibility of American leadership with it, possibly creating a new and lasting transatlantic breach and intensifying concerns about the alliance's ability to protect weak European states against a resurgent Russia. China has no interest in Afghanistan's collapse into a sanctuary for Islamist extremists, including Uighers who militate against China's rule in Xinjiang. But a Western defeat in Afghanistan, which if historical precedent holds would be followed by a bout of U.S. isolationism, would only create more space for China to pursue its (for now) peaceful rise. And that is the point: the debate over whether to prevail in Afghanistan is about so much more. An American recommitment to a sustained counterinsurgency strategy that turned around the conflict would demonstrate that the United States and its democratic allies remain the principal providers of public goods -- in this case, the security and stability of a strategically vital region that threatens the global export of violent extremism -- in the international system. A new and sustained victory strategy for Afghanistan would show that Washington is singularly positioned to convene effective coalitions and deliver solutions to intractable international problems in ways that shore up the stability of an international economic and political order that has provided greater degrees of human freedom and prosperity than any other. By contrast, a U.S. decision to wash its hands of Afghanistan would send a different message to friends and competitors alike. It would hasten the emergence of a different kind of international order, one in which history no longer appeared to be on the side of the United States and its friends. Islamic extremism, rather than continuing to lose ground to the universal promise of democratic modernity, would gain new legs -- after all, Afghan Islamists would have defeated their second superpower in a generation. Rival states that contest Western leadership of the international order and reject the principles of open society would increase their influence at America's expense. Just as most Afghans are not prepared to live under a new Taliban regime, so most Americans are surely not prepared to live in a world in which the United States voluntarily cedes its influence, power, and moral example to others who share neither our interests nor our values.

This is a bigger internal link than the aff
Tunç 2k8
(Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669)
Reputation can be defined as a judgment about an actor’s past behavior and character that is used to predict future behavior. In international politics, a major component of building or maintaining a country’s reputation involves resolve.5 Policy makers may believe that a lack of resolve in one military confrontation will be seen as an indication of general weakness.6 According to Shiping Tang, this concern frequently amounts to ‘‘a cult of reputation’’ among foreign policy makers, which he defines as ‘‘a belief system holding as its central premise a conviction (or fear) that backing down in a crisis will lead one’s adversaries or allies to underestimate one’s resolve in the next crisis.’’7 Of particular importance to the cult of reputation is concern about the consequences of withdrawal from a theater of war. The major dictate of the cult of reputation is that a country should stand firm and refuse to withdraw from a theater of war. The underlying belief is that a withdrawal would inflict a severe blow to a country’s reputation and thus ‘‘embolden’’ the adversaries by boosting commitment and recruitment to their cause.8 Since the end of World War II, a cult of reputation has evolved among certain American policy makers who maintain that being a global power means being able to convey the image of strength and resolve.9 According to this perspective, a reputation for firmness and resoluteness deters adversaries and reassures allies about U.S. commitments. Conversely, being perceived as weak and irresolute encourages adversaries to be more aggressive and results in allies being less supportive. This logic has had two general consequences for America’s use of force abroad: First, exhibiting resolve has been deemed necessary even in small and distant countries. This is because the mere perception of power generates tangible power, thereby reducing the need to use actual physical force against every adversary.10 In the 1950s and 1960s, this logic translated into military interventions in several places, notably in Korea and Vietnam, countries whose strategic value to the United States appeared questionable to some.11 Second, reputational concerns made it difficult for the United States to withdraw from a theater of war. The Vietnam War is the most prominent case, although the logic was also evident during the Korean conflict in the early 1950s.12 As is well-documented by historians, both the Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon administrations took reputation seriously and argued that leaving Vietnam without an ‘‘honorable’’ exit would seriously hurt U.S. credibility in the eyes of allies and adversaries alike. For both Johnson and Nixon, an ‘‘honorable’’ exit meant creating an autonomous South Vietnam (much like independent, anti-communist South Korea after the Korean war) that was recognized by all parties involved in the conflict, particularly by the North Vietnamese government. Such an outcome would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13

And, low credibility causes terrorism and Pakistani collapse
Javed, 10 –from a Pakistani Newspaper (3/5/10, Bassam, from BBC Monitoring International Reports “Pakistan article discusses implications of US withdrawal from Afghanistan,” Gale group)
The exasperated American surge-and-exit strategy reflects the increased frustration of the Western alliance, which has failed to bring about stability to Afghanistan. The exit part of any military strategy surly [as received] materializes successfully however, the stability part post withdrawal or exit of the affected country always remained dicey. Similarly, in case of Afghanistan, the case would not be any different as the exit would not yield any long term stability. To add to the frustration, the Dutch government's debacle over the issue of withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan, indicates the mood of the Western public over the issue. Also, the fact that no other country has come forward to-date to replace the Dutch forces in Afghanistan makes it evident that the withdrawal will be there soon. The withdrawal though, may portray America as weak but it has no choice since prolonging the stay any more would still tantamount to weakness any way. The withdrawal of foreign forces may not be wholesome but in parts over five to six years. Still, one might see the presence of a few thousand of them at the end, typically on the lines of Iraqi withdrawal. However, in the time leading up to the phased withdrawal, there are more fervent public voices calling for immediate withdrawal of their respective forces from Afghanistan. Amongst the rising tide of like minded people in favour of withdrawal, there are some lonely voices too that are heard on and off calling for continuation of deployment of Western forces in Afghanistan. This segment of the society is skeptical of post withdrawal scenario in Afghanistan. The apprehensions on the withdrawal are many. The most important geopolitical repercussion of the withdrawal being cited would be the perception that America stands defeated in the long drawn Afghan war. The others include the perception that the withdrawal will lead to the Taleban returning to power in Afghanistan, the Taleban allowing Al-Qa'idah renewed access to the country, and Al-Qa'idah making use of Afghanistan to successfully attack the West again. The withdrawal will have its implications on Pakistan too and as such, it must prepare itself to confront all challenges emerging out of the event and exert its weight in stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan. This will be all the more difficult as other countries like India and Iran will also be vying to get some stakes in Afghanistan upon withdrawal of foreign forces from there. Some of the scenarios that might develop out of the situation then would be discussed hereafter in this article. The Northern Alliance would continue to be supported by Russia, India and Iran in the post withdrawal Afghanistan. The Pashtuns, who ruled Afghanistan for over 200 years, having been denied their due right in the Afghan polity under the US occupation, would resist the dominance of the Northern Alliance with the tacit support of its war time friends for Kabul that may result in further bloodshed. Pakistan may again face the burden of the refugees and a destabilized Afghanistan yet again, which would be detrimental to its overall security. Since there exists a lot of disparity within the Afghan society, the Afghan strife will continue that may lead to formation of fresh alliances between various Afghan factions to develop some equilibrium, which resultantly could prolong instability in Afghanistan. The interim period would be exploited by India to cement its foothold in Afghan affairs much to the detriment of Pakistan's interests. The withdrawal may also encourage fundamentalists and extremists the world over, who may be inspired by the resilience of Afghans and their success in forcing foreign military powers out of their lands and as such adopt as means of achieving victories. The perceptions amongst the Afghan Taleban that Pakistan has been siding with the Western forces against them may lead to their disenchantment with Pakistan and they may be inclined to work against its interests. Pakistan does not enjoy very good relations with the Northern Alliance. As such, it will be difficult for it to negotiate an ultimate power sharing deal between the Northern Alliance and the Taleban, if it may try to at some point of time.

Turns solvency but disad uniqueness causes the aff
Maclean, 09, Staff Writer Reuters (William, “Afghan exit seen worsening risks to region, West,” September 14, http://www.iiss.org/whats-new/iiss-in-the-press/press-coverage-2009/september-2009/afghan-exit-seen-worsening-risks-to-region-west/)
Premature Western military disengagement from Afghanistan would risk catastrophic turmoil in the region, Western and Afghan officials say, responding to a rising tide of concern at the intensity of insurgent violence.
Such greater instability would end up requiring an even bigger Western involvement to resolve in an area including nuclear-armed Pakistan and al Qaeda's main bastions, they say.
The officials argue there is no substitute for a lasting commitment now that would permit a reduced military presence over time as the country stabilises.
With insurgent violence at its highest since the Taliban movement was ousted from power in late 2001, public support for the war is declining in America and has plummeted in Europe.
Former British High Commissioner in Pakistan Hilary Synnott, speaking at a weekend meeting of strategists in Geneva hosted by Britain's International Institute for Strategic Studies, said critics of Western strategy had to consider "the very great consequences of perceived American defeat".
"There is real concern about Pakistan, with five times the population of Afghanistan, which has nuclear weapons and which has a new Pakistani Taliban threatening the state itself," he said.
"Those who argue, as some do, that the smart thing is simply to walk away would destroy everything that has been achieved," Sherard Cowper-Coles, a British special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, told delegates.

Faster timeframe
Bergen,9 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510)
In August, President Obama laid out the rationale for stepping up the fight in Afghanistan: If left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even larger safe haven from which al-Qaeda would plot to kill more Americans. So this is not only a war worth fighting. This is fundamental to the defense of our people. Obamas Af-Pak plan is, in essence, a countersanctuary strategy that denies safe havens to the Taliban and al-Qaeda, with the overriding goal of making America and its allies safer. Under Obama, the Pentagon has already sent a surge of 21,000 troops to Afghanistan, and the Administration is even weighing the possibility of deploying as many as 40,000 more.
This is a sound policy. If U.S. forces were not in Afghanistan, the Taliban, with its al-Qaeda allies in tow, would seize control of the country's south and east and might even take it over entirely. A senior Afghan politician told me that the Taliban would be in Kabul within 24 hours without the presence of international forces. This is not because the Taliban is so strong; generous estimates suggest it numbers no more than 20,000 fighters. It is because the Afghan government and the 90,000--man Afghan army are still so weak.

Withdrawing and Afghanistan instability spills over to Pakistan leading to terrorism and radicalism – only continued presence can solve
Kagan 09 – an American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), and a former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He earned a B.A. in Soviet and East European studies and a Ph.D. in Russian and Soviet military history, both from Yale University. (February 9, Frederick, “Planning Victory in Afghanistan: Nine principles the Obama administration should follow.” http://article.nationalreview.com/385240/planning-victory-in-afghanistan/frederick-w-kagan?page=6
1. UNDERSTAND WHY WE’RE THERE
Afghanistan is not now a sanctuary for al-Qaeda, but it would likely become one again if we abandoned it. Mullah Omar, the head of the Taliban government we removed in 2001, is alive and well in Pakistan. He maintains contacts with Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and the other key al-Qaeda leaders, who are also based in Pakistan (although in a different area). Mullah Omar supports Taliban fighters in southern Afghanistan from his Pakistani havens, while al-Qaeda and its affiliates support insurgents in eastern Afghanistan. Allowing Afghanistan to fail would mean allowing these determined enemies of the United States to regain the freedom they had before 9/11.
Pakistan itself is another reason Afghanistan is vitally important to America. It’s a country with 170 million people, nuclear weapons, and numerous terrorist groups. As long as Afghanistan is unstable, Pakistan will be unable to bring order to its own tribal areas, where many terrorist sanctuaries persist. It will also be distracted from addressing the more fundamental problems of Islamic radicalism that threaten its very survival as a state. Further, Afghan instability makes the U.S. dependent on Pakistan logistically—there is no way to replace completely the land route from Karachi with another route through Central Asia. This dependence in turn reduces our ability to influence Islamabad on other matters of great importance, such as stabilizing civilian rule in Pakistan and stopping support for terrorist groups like the one that attacked Bombay.
2. KNOW WHAT WE HAVE TO ACHIEVE
Success in Afghanistan does not require creating a paradise in one of the poorest countries on earth, but we cannot define victory down. Preventing Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for terrorists again, helping Pakistan fight its own terrorist problems, and liberating ourselves from dependence on Pakistan will require building an Afghan state with a representative government.

Taliban controlled Afghan is likely after withdraw and risks terrorism and instability
Biddle 09 – Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, (July-August , Stephen, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan”
http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617)
The Taliban’s weaknesses make it hard for them to overthrow a U.S.-supported government while large Western military forces defend it. But without those Western troops, the Afghan state would offer a much easier target. Even with more than 50,000 Western troops in its defense, the Karzai government has proven unable to contain Taliban influence and prevent insurgents from expanding their presence. If abandoned to its fate the government would almost surely fare much worse. Nor would an orphaned Karzai regime be in any position to negotiate a compromise settlement that could deny the Taliban full control. With outright victory in their grasp, it is hard to see why the Taliban would settle for anything less than a complete restoration.
A Taliban restoration, as noted, could restore to al-Qaeda a sanctuary for attacking the United States. And even if a Taliban 2.0 regime vetoed al-Qaeda attacks on the United States, it would almost certainly provide Pashtun militants and their allies in Pakistan a massive launching pad for efforts to destabilize the regime in Islamabad. Even without a haven in Afghanistan, Pakistani insurgents might ultimately topple the government, but that threat clearly grows with the additional resources of an openly sympathetic state across the Durand Line. And this raises the specter of Pakistani nuclear weapons falling into al-Qaeda’s hands in Pakistan.

Afghanistan won’t let us keep just air bases
Tellis, 9 – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
This problem could, of course, be circumvented by negotiating arrangements with Afghanistan for combat basing of Predators and strike aircraft even after Washington abandons Kabul, pulls its troops out of the country, and renounces its mission of state building in Afghanistan. Why the Afghans would have any interest in such an agreement remains inexplicable, particularly because Kabul would, through such a deal, have transformed its own country into a target for al-Qaeda attacks at precisely the time when it had lost all the substantive protections previously offered by the United States. For all these reasons, the notion that standoff attacks conducted from a distance would suffice to neutralize al-Qaeda in the face of a U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan must be judged as fanciful, especially when such operations conducted under far more favorable circumstances today have produced only alloyed results. Moreover, at a time when the al-Qaeda network is becoming ever harder to distinguish from its various Taliban allies as far as threats to the United States and its partners are concerned, the idea that standoff attacks can be conducted successfully, even in the face of a U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, confounds the imagination.

Taliban would overtake our bases and cut them off
Riedel and O’Hanlon 9 - Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy and Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)
The fundamental reason that a counterterrorism-focused strategy fails is that it cannot generate good intelligence. Al-Qaeda and the Taliban know not to use their cellphones and satellite phones today, so our spy satellites are of little use in finding extremists. We need information from unmanned low-altitude aircraft and, even more, from people on the ground who speak the language and know the comings and goings of locals. But our Afghan friends who might be inclined to help us with such information would be intimidated by insurgent and terrorist forces into silence — or killed if they cooperated — because we would lack the ability to protect them under a counterterrorism approach.
Afghan forces simply do not have the capacity to do the protecting themselves at this point and, given the challenges of building up new institutions in Afghanistan after decades of war, will not have the ability until at least 2012. Even that distant date will be postponed further if we do not deploy enough forces to mentor and partner with Afghans as they build up an army and police force largely from scratch. This adds up to a prescription for a drying up of intelligence.
The second reason a counterterrorism-oriented strategy would fail is that, if we tried it, we would likely lose our ability to operate unmanned aircraft where the Taliban and al-Qaeda prefer to hide. Why? If we pulled out, the Afghan government would likely collapse. The secure bases near the mountains of the Afghan-Pakistan border, and thus our ability to operate aircraft from them, would be lost. Our ability to go after Afghan resistance fighters would deteriorate. And the recent momentum we have established in going after Pakistani extremists would be lost.
For those who have forgotten the realities of the 1990s — when we tried to go after Osama bin Laden without access to nearby bases by using ships based in the Indian Ocean — the two- to four-hour flight times of drones and cruise missiles operating off such ships made prompt action to real-time intelligence impractical.
Third, we would likely lose our allies with this approach. A limited mission offers nothing to the Afghans, whose country is essentially abandoned to the Taliban, or to the Pakistanis, who would similarly see this as the first step toward cut and run. The NATO allies would also smell in a "reduced" mission the beginning of withdrawal; some if not most might try to beat us to the exit.
Once the Taliban is back in power in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda will not be far behind. Our top nemesis will be able to salvage a victory in the very place from which it launched the 9/11 attacks eight years ago. Al-Qaeda will have its favorite bases and sanctuaries back, as well as a major propaganda win.
A major setback, a major danger
Given how badly the situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated since 2001, we might ultimately have to fall back on a narrow counterterrorism option. But that would be a major setback, and a major danger, for the United States — not a clever, lower-cost alternative strategy to what we are pursuing in Afghanistan today.
Some say that the stakes aren't that high because al-Qaeda doesn't really need a sanctuary to do its dirty work. But this misses the point and fails to distinguish between the bad and the worse. Having a physical sanctuary, in addition to being able to claim victory against the United States and its allies, would make organization, training and communication far easier for bin Laden and his cronies.
The right path remains what President Obama proposed in March — working to protect the Afghan population while building up Afghan state institutions such as the army and police. This approach will take time and perhaps more resources. But alas, in this kind of war, there is little choice.

Turn—pullout causes Pashtun defections to the Taliban
Gerecht 09 - contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. (September 21, Reuel Marc, “A not-so-great game, but one America can't give up.” http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/948zygvj.asp?page=6&pg=2 )
Although there has been more ethnic cleansing in Afghanistan than has been reported in the mainstream press (mostly Pashtuns migrating, voluntarily or under duress, from predominantly Tajik and Uzbek areas), interethnic antipathy hasn't metastasized as it did in Iraq. Badly mauled, the idea of Afghan fraternity still exists. The widespread savagery that we saw between Iraqi Sunni and Shiite Arabs seems unlikely to happen in Afghanistan.
Some critics of Westerners in Afghanistan argue that U.S. and NATO forces, by their tactics if not their mere presence, are breathing life into the neo-Taliban, who would remain deeply unpopular among the Pashtuns if it were not for outsiders' mistakes. Although we can quickly concede that Western mistakes make the Taliban look better, Westerners in Afghanistan have actually generated much less village-level antipathy among the Pashtuns than might have been expected given the Pashtuns' reputation for xenophobia. We might yet see a Pashtun-only "national liberation" jihad develop in Afghanistan, but we are far from this now.
Even now, "our" Pashtuns probably represent a big majority of their brethren. If the Americans were to leave, however, it's highly unlikely these friendly Pashtuns could long hold the high ground against a resurgent neo-Taliban movement. The Taliban possess the most effective Pashtun fighting force. Many, perhaps most, Pashtuns dislike the Taliban's aggressively inflexible religion (it's Pashtun village faith on speed), but the Taliban do have an ideology, tested repeatedly on the battlefield. It isn't just money and intimidation that bring them recruits.

No link between troop number and anti-Americanism - reduction generates more anti-Americanism and increases global terrorism
Hegghammer, 9 a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (Thomas, “The big impact of small footprints”, 11/11/2009, Foreign Policy, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19691/big_impact_of_small_footprints.html)
A growing number of people, led by Vice President Joe Biden, are advocating a so-called "small footprint" approach to the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan. They propose a significantly reduced military presence that focuses more on destroying al Qaeda than on building Afghanistan, and relies more on airstrikes and special forces than on conventional tactics. America will get about as much security as before, the argument goes, but at a much lower price. A return of the Taliban to power is not necessarily a problem, small footprint proponents argue, because the regime can be deterred from hosting al Qaeda by the threat of U.S. airstrikes or another invasion.One of the many assumptions behind this tempting argument is that there is a certain level of proportionality between the amount of force we use and the level of resistance we encounter. If we stop occupying Afghanistan and limit violence to the really bad guys, al Qaeda will be unable, and other radicalized Muslims unwilling, to attack the United States. This may be true for local insurgencies such as the Taliban, but not for small transnational movements such as al Qaeda. In fact, a significantly smaller U.S. presence in Afghanistan may paradoxically generate more anti-Americanism outside Afghanistan and ultimately more anti-Western terrorism than a more conventional military approach. This is because jihadi propaganda today relies on visually powerful symbols to mobilize people, and intermittent "surgical" strikes, and the casualties they cause, may create more such symbols than continuous conventional warfare.
The history of jihadism is full of examples of seemingly small incidents having a major effect on mobilization. In August 1998, the U.S. launched missiles on Afghanistan and Sudan in retaliation for al Qaeda attacks on U.S. embassies in East Africa. The strikes made Mullah Omar work more closely with Osama Bin Laden and were followed by an increase in recruitment to al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. In April 2002, the Israeli military's incursion into Jenin caused a veritable political earthquake in the Muslim world, and demonstrably helped recruitment to al Qaeda in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere. This was despite the relatively few casualties (a U.N. report concluded 52 Palestinian were killed, half of them civilians). In Pakistan, a few failed U.S. airstrikes in the Tribal Areas in 2006 and 2007 caused public outrage.and dramatically increased anti-Americanism across the country. The power of small incidents has increased in the past decade thanks to the Internet. Increasing bandwidth, cheaper digital cameras and fast-learning activists have turned the world wide web into a giant propaganda tool which can generate powerful visual messages and project them instantly to a global audience. The smallest detail can be dramatically enlarged and turned into a symbol of "Muslim suffering at the hands of non-Muslims." On jihadi discussion forums such as Faloja (named after the Iraqi city whose 2004 battles between jihadis and U.S. forces made it an icon of Muslim suffering), high-quality video productions appear on a daily basis. The relationship between objective physical destruction and jihadi mobilization has never been less linear. (Of course, the non-linearity works both ways; more conventional power does not necessarily generate less powerful propaganda.)
Why, then, would a small footprint approach in Afghanistan create more visual symbols of Muslim suffering? For a start, a troop reduction would not take away the occupation, at least not in the eyes of non-Afghan Islamists. Al Qaeda has a very wide definition of occupation and would frame any U.S. military presence in the region as such.
Moreover, the surgical strikes would not be that surgical. A significantly smaller U.S. ground presence is likely to produce less good human intelligence, because it will be harder to protect informants. This will increase the risk of hitting, for example, wedding parties. In addition, fewer strikes means that each individual operation is more visible. This mitigates the problem of information saturation which currently frustrates jihadi propagandists. In war, many bad things happen, but individual incidents drown in the noise of the conflict. This may explain why interest in the Iraqi insurgency on jihadi forums has decreased steadily since 2005; there was so much going on that even jihadis were desensitized. A related dynamic may be behind the paradox that in Pakistan, public outrage over CIA drone strikes seems to have decreased in 2008 and 2009 as the frequency of strikes has gone up. For al Qaeda's propagandists, less can be more.

The perception of U.S. commitment is vital to demobilizing the insurgency
Kagan 09 – an American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), and a former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He earned a B.A. in Soviet and East European studies and a Ph.D. in Russian and Soviet military history, both from Yale University. (February 9, Frederick, “Planning Victory in Afghanistan: Nine principles the Obama administration should follow.” http://article.nationalreview.com/385240/planning-victory-in-afghanistan/frederick-w-kagan?page=6
4. COMMIT TO THE EFFORT
The consistent unwillingness of the U.S. government to commit to the success of its endeavors in Afghanistan (and Iraq) over the long term is a serious obstacle to progress. The Pakistani leadership appears convinced that America will abandon its efforts in South Asia sooner rather than later, and this conviction fuels Pakistan’s determination to retain support for (and therefore control of) Afghan Taliban groups based in its territory. It also contributes to instability within Pakistan, because Pakistani leaders are tentative about committing to the fight against their internal foes as long as they are unsure of our determination to do our part.
At the local level within Afghanistan, people who are not convinced that coalition forces will stay to support them if they oppose the terrorists are unlikely to risk retaliation by committing to us. When U.S. forces moved into insurgent strongholds in Iraq in 2007, the first thing they were asked was: “Are you going to stay this time?” When the answer was yes (and we proved it by really staying and living among them), the floodgates of local opposition to the insurgents opened. The people of Afghanistan need the same reassurance. Until it is widely believe that the U.S. will remain in the fight until the insurgency is defeated, doubt about our commitment will continue to fuel the insurgency. If we are going to fight this war, as our interests require, we must make it clear that we will do what it takes to win.
Our history is very much against us in this effort. Islamists point to our retreat following the Marine-barracks bombing in Lebanon in 1983, the “Blackhawk Down” incident in 1993, our abandonment of Afghanistan following the defeat of the Soviet Union in 1989, and our abandonment of Shiite and Kurdish Iraqis to Saddam Hussein’s retribution in 1991 and 1992. At the end of 2006, our enemies in Iraq were already declaring victory, convinced that the pattern would repeat itself. The question they are now asking is: Was the surge an aberration in U.S. policy or a new pattern?
Our friends have the same question. We are asking them to put their lives on the line in support of shared goals, and they need to know we will stand by them. More rides on the outcome of our effort in Afghanistan than the particular interests we have there. American security would benefit greatly if we changed the global perception that the U.S. does not have the stomach to finish what it starts.

Our credibility impact is empirically true – Vietnam withdrawal proves
Carafano, 9 – senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation (James, National Journal’s Experts Blog, 9/10,
http://security.nationaljournal.com/2009/09/obamas-afghan-dilemma-go-big-o.php#1352488
Worst of all, anti-war activists think we paid no price for walking away from Vietnam. They are wrong. The world got more not less dangerous after Vietnam. The Soviets got more aggressive starting insurgencies across Africa and in our backyard in Latin America. They embarked on a massive conventional and nuclear build up and field a fleet of biological weapon tipped ballistic missiles that were the ultimate doomsday lessons. Lesson #4: intentionally losing wars is a bad idea.
Is winning in Afghanistan in our interest? You bet, if we walk away right now the Taliban and al Qaeda will be back…and that could lead to another 9/11. Taliban and al Qaeda are a threat to regional stability. This last thing we want in nuclear armed India and Pakistan at each other throats, the Pakistani Taliban and al Qaeda would love that. Is the war winnable? You bet. We need a better strategy and adequate resources, but we can stand up a stable Afghanistan and pressure the Pakistanis to do their part (which they won’t do if they think we won’t stick it out.) Can we win without breaking the bank or the military? You bet. That requires more responsible fiscal policies and more realistic defense budgets.
We tried walking away from Afghanistan before. That did not work out so well. We should not repeat that mistake again.

Credibility is the most important factor in maintaining heg
Fettweis, 4
(Christopher, Professor at the U.S. Army War College, December 2004, “Resolute Eagle or Paper Tiger? Credibility, Reputation and the War on Terror,” online: http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p67147_index.html)
If decision makers interpreted interests along material lines, then analysts of foreign policy would need to look no further in order to explain state behavior. However, time and again nations take on tasks that appear to be counter to what a rational evaluation of interests would recommend – to borrow Barbara Tuchman’s memorable phrase, they engage in a “march of folly.”6 How could U.S. policymakers fail to disengage from Vietnam, for instance, when it was clear that the costs in blood and treasure were not proportional to any potential benefits that could conceivably be gained from an anti-communist South Vietnam? To prominent realists such as Hans Morgenthau and Kenneth Waltz, intervention in isolated, resource-poor Vietnam was irrational, “moralistic” and mistaken. Only “if developments in Vietnam might indeed tilt the world’s balance in America’s disfavor,” argued Waltz, would the war be worthwhile.7 They did not, of course – from a material perspective, Vietnam was next to irrelevant to U.S. national security. Clearly some other compelling forces had to be at work. State behavior cannot be explained absent an understanding of the forces at work within the human mind. Intangible interests, ones whose roots are psychological and inherently unmeasurable, often drive decisions in directions inexplicable to the empirical analyst. The war in Vietnam was fought more to send messages to adversaries, allies and neutrals than in pursuit of any material benefits that victory would bring. Diplomatic historian Robert McMahon spoke for the vast majority of observers when he argued that Vietnam’s importance did not derive from tangible interests, but “primarily from the meanings that others would ascribe to American actions there.”8 The reputation and credibility of the United States was at stake, or so decision-makers thought, and those were assets well worth a fight. One cannot understand the major U.S. foreign policy actions – from Korea to Iraq – without understanding the messages that policymakers hoped to send through their actions. The conventional wisdom holds that a healthy reputation of the United States is absolutely vital for not only its national security, but for the very maintenance of world order and peace. It is this belief, which McMahon has called the “credibility imperative,” that has driven action in consistent and observable ways since the end of World War II.9

Any reduction is perceived as the beginning of a withdrawal strategy
Riedel and O’Hanlon, 9 - Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy AND Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)
Third, we would likely lose our allies with this approach. A limited mission offers nothing to the Afghans, whose country is essentially abandoned to the Taliban, or to the Pakistanis, who would similarly see this as the first step toward cut and run. The NATO allies would also smell in a "reduced" mission the beginning of withdrawal; some if not most might try to beat us to the exit.

Withdrawing US presence telegraphs weakness to Russia and Central Asian states
Rashid, 09 – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352)
SOUTHERN REGIONS of Muslim central Asia are now at risk. The situation will only get worse if the Taliban offensives continue.
The regions bordering Afghanistan, including southern Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and eastern Turkmenistan, are facing pauperization of their populations, the collapse of Soviet-era services like health and education, and growing joblessness. Their regimes remain dictatorial, corrupt, and deny political or economic reforms. Vast numbers of poverty-stricken workers migrate to Russia looking for work.
Uzbekistan is the largest of these states with some 27 million people and a history of Islamic revolt. Harsh policies and vicious crackdowns against anyone overzealously practicing Islam have led to a strong Islamist underground. After the massacre in Andijan in May 2005, when security forces killed up to eight hundred protesting citizens, hundreds of young dissidents have fled to join the two major Islamic groups operating from Pakistan’s tribal areas—the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the Islamic Jihad Union (IJU). Both these groups fight for and model themselves on the Taliban, work closely with al-Qaeda and help fund the extremist terrorist network by transporting drugs through central Asia to Europe. Both the IMU and the IJU recruit widely from central Asia, the Caucasus, Russia, and most recently from Turkey and Turks living in Germany.
This summer, for the first time since 2001, allegedly under the auspices of al-Qaeda, the IMU and the IJU carried out suicide bombings and other small attacks against security forces in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan. Such attacks will certainly increase; both the Taliban and al-Qaeda would like to see central Asia in turmoil, perhaps eventually offering a safe haven to their leaders.
Until recently, both Russia and the United States have ignored the impending crisis in the broader region. The United States thought of central Asia only in terms of the military bases the states there provided, while Russia put front and center maintaining a sphere of influence in its near abroad.
However in the past few months, for the first time, Russia has started pressing the United States to cooperate with it more closely on Afghan policy, and Moscow has given the United States and NATO permission to transport supplies to Afghanistan by land. Moscow finally appears to understand the threat of Islamic militancy radiating from Afghanistan into central Asia and perhaps even into Russia itself. Any U.S. retreat from Afghanistan at this moment would certainly send an overwhelming message of U.S. weakness to Russia and the central Asian states. It would encourage extremism to grow and persuade the Afghan Taliban to step up support for its allies in central Asia.

The plan leads to civil war, collapse of the government and a resurgent Taliban 
Curtis and Phillips 09 - Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, focusing on analyzing America's economic, security, and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal AND Senior Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs at the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. He has written extensively on Middle Eastern issues and international terrorism since 1978 (December 2, Lisa and James, “President Obama's Afghanistan Speech: An Uncertain Message” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/President-Obamas-Afghanistan-Speech ) 
Given his clarity about the threat posed to U.S. national security by a Taliban-dominated Afghanistan, it is difficult to comprehend why Obama would have designated such an early date to begin withdrawing U.S. forces--particularly since most observers acknowledge that it will take at least three to four years to fully train and equip the Afghan National Army to a level sufficient to engage the Taliban. If the U.S. departs the region before the situation in Afghanistan is stabilized, it would likely result in a downward spiral of decreasing security in Afghanistan, including: A resurgent Taliban, Eventual collapse of the Afghan government, An even bloodier civil war, Renewed humanitarian crisis, and A refugee exodus. Moreover, the Taliban will not only bring back their ally al-Qaeda, but it will also provide sanctuary to almost every major Islamist insurgent movement in the world today: the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, the Pakistani Taliban, Chechen militants, etc. This would be a disastrous outcome not only for Americans and Afghans but for Pakistan, India, and the nations of Europe--all of whom are targets of Islamist terrorists.

Even partial withdrawals link—they empower hardline military factions in Pakistan which compels regional support for the Taliban and torches the counterterrorism strategy
Rashid, 09 – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352)
The threat the United States and the region face is that the Afghan insurgency will continue to grow and that if there is a Western withdrawal from Afghanistan, Pakistan will not allow a vacuum to develop in Afghanistan and instead will abet a Taliban victory. Pakistan has had a risky dual policy of supporting the Americans in combating al-Qaeda and the Pakistan Taliban, while also supporting the Afghan Taliban. This is because the Pakistani army’s national-security logic is dominated by the struggle to keep the Indians at bay. For the army, a Taliban regime in Kabul is preferable to any other warlord regime to guarantee that the Indians and their Afghan protégés (of which Karzai is considered one) are forever kept out of having a role—as they were when the Taliban ruled the lands of Afghanistan in the 1990s. Moreover, a pro-Pakistan Taliban regime in Kabul, possibly backed by Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states and China, would create a new Pakistan-led region of influence that would reduce the role of its two other main rivals—Iran and Russia. This strategy could become more imperative with talk of less U.S. support to Afghanistan, the collapse in credibility of the Karzai government and the growing perception in Pakistan that the Taliban is winning. Every sign of the United States or NATO dithering over strategy only convinces the Pakistani military about keeping its Taliban option open. Pakistan may well be prepared to take the risk of endangering its own stability by supporting a Taliban regime in Kabul, even as it will try unsuccessfully to separate the Pakistan Taliban from its Afghan brothers.
THIS IS why Pakistan is faced with a conundrum. Even as Islamabad tries to secure its interests in Afghanistan, it puts its own security at risk. Several American pundits have warned that any U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan would seriously destabilize Pakistan. That is true.
The Pakistan Taliban now threatens to overrun large parts of northern Pakistan. In the last two years, the Pakistan Taliban has increasingly turned its guns on the Pakistani army and state. Monster turns on creator.
This year the Pakistan Taliban’s capture of the Swat Valley north of Islamabad led to outrage from the Pakistani public and the international community. And the army was forced to take action, acknowledging for the first time that the Pakistan Taliban was now a dire threat. In recent months, the army has pushed the Taliban out of Swat and is fighting to regain control of the Khyber Pass where the Taliban has been attacking the hundreds of NATO supply containers that are trucked through to Afghanistan every day.
The army has also blocked off roads into South Waziristan, where the Pakistan Taliban is based, and is using long-distance shelling and bombing to destabilize the group. The United States has helped these efforts by killing Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of the Pakistan Taliban, in a drone strike. The army has recently said after much American pressure that it may soon attack South Waziristan.
And thus we come to the end of the good news. If the army is now acting responsibly in dealing with the Pakistan Taliban, such is not the case with the Afghan Taliban. Key networks, such as those of Haqqani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, are based in North Waziristan, and they launch attacks into Afghanistan. For the past eight years they have never been bothered by the Pakistani army.
Neither have the main Afghan Taliban leaders who live in Quetta in Baluchistan province. From Quetta, the Taliban is able to resupply its forces in Afghanistan with money, ammunition, suicide bombers and materials to make bombs and mines—all under the watchful eye of the ISI. According to intelligence sources, the Taliban leader Mullah Omar is now in a safe house in Karachi because of the fear that the United States may start using drone attacks on Quetta.
Admiral Mullen and Richard Holbrooke have made major efforts to bring the army and Pakistan’s weak civilian leadership led by President Asif Ali Zardari onboard to help go after the Afghan Taliban and help stabilize rather than undermine Afghanistan. However, Pakistan’s civilian politicians are not strong enough to accept U.S. demands if it means contradicting the army’s policies. As the army takes on the Pakistan Taliban and clears Swat, its political influence and power has grown proportionally. The army still has to be won over to the simple and disturbing truth that a Taliban regime in Kabul would, through its Pakistani proxies, pose a major threat to the Pakistani state.
Worse, Pakistan is far less resilient than it was a few years ago. Even as Pakistani officials bluntly criticize Holbrooke for linking Afghanistan and Pakistan in his “AfPak” strategy, some Pakistanis already see a chronic “Afghanization” of their nation. Current realities include a collapse of law and order in parts of the country, state institutions riddled with corruption and ineffectiveness, a justice system that cannot deliver, a crashing economy with severe joblessness, increasing ethnic tensions and a strong separatist movement in Baluchistan province.
However, the real fear is that under such enormous external and internal pressures, there are no guarantees that the army will stay committed to a democratic system. More so, the military may not remain as united as it has been for the past six decades. What many Pakistanis fear and constantly talk about is not a traditional generals’ coup that may end democracy, but a colonels’ coup that could bring in a pro-Islamist and anti-Western coterie of officers linked to Islamic groups that would then negotiate a compromise with the Pakistan Taliban. That could put Pakistan’s nuclear weapons into the wrong hands. Neither a partial U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan nor a strategy of only using drones to target al-Qaeda could hope to handle such a regional catastrophe.
And a complete American departure would seal the region’s fate.

===India disad=== 

The aff reverses progress on our relationship with India
Karl, 8/31 – Asia Strategy Initiative (8/31/10, David, “US-India relations: Problems posed by Afghanistan and Iran,”
http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/08/31/us-india-relations-problems-posed-by-afghanistan-and-iran/)
After much criticism for appearing to neglect New Delhi while courting Beijing, the Obama administration is now moving to inject a sense of urgency and momentum into US-India relations. But just as bilateral affairs seem to have acquired new dynamism, differences over Afghanistan and Iran threaten to undermine positive developments.
There are several factors that explain India’s drop from Washington’s foreign policy priorities. The Obama administration took office viewing Asia’s evolutions differently to the Bush era. And Obama’s prioritising of high profile engagement with Beijing on an array of global governance issues has diverted strategic focus from New Delhi.
In an address on US policy in Asia in November 2009, Obama failed to mention India even in passing. The omission was all the more glaring as Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was due in Washington for a state visit a little over a week later.
But China’s treatment of Obama during his state visit to Beijing in November 2009 and at the climate summit in Copenhagen a month later has seen the administration revert to Bush-era strategic balancing vis-à-vis China.
The Bush administration’s publicly denied but widely understood goal was to build India’s strategic potential as a check against the rise of Chinese power.
Is this also the goal of the Obama administration?
Undersecretary of state for political affairs, William J. Burns, has affirmed in a recent address that the Obama administration is ‘deeply committed to supporting India’s rise.’ Burns has also called for India’s greater diplomatic and military involvement in East Asia and for enhanced US-Indian defence cooperation; ideas that are bound to irritate leaders in Beijing.
A month later, Michele Flournoy, undersecretary of defence for policy, echoed these themes by proclaiming that ‘India’s success is very much in America’s national interest.’
This heightened focus on India increases the likelihood that President Obama’s trip to India will establish new milestones in bilateral relations.
But any attempt to strengthen this relationship will not be problem-free.
The first of these is Afghanistan. Obama may need to shore up his domestic political base by accelerating the drawdown of US military forces in Afghanistan. This would have obvious implications on Pakistan, and could in turn have serious consequences for US-India relations.

Turns case and war in Asia
Burns, 5 – Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf)
A strong democratic India is an important partner for the United States. We anticipate that India will play an increasingly important leadership role in 21st century Asia, working with us to promote democracy, economic growth, stability and peace in that vital region. By cooperating with India now, we accelerate the arrival of the benefits that India's rise brings to the region and the world. By fostering ever-closer bilateral ties, we also eliminate any possibility that our two nations might overlook their natural affinities and enter into another period of unproductive estrangement, as was so often the case in the past half century. Today, for the first time since bilateral relations were established in 1947, the United States and India are bound together by a strong congruence of interests, values, and a large and successful Indian-American community. Consequently we find an especially receptive partner in New Delhi, one no longer bound by Cold War politics or dogma. The Indian Government has demonstrated its firm desire to enhance our bilateral relationship. The United States now has a window of opportunity to seize the initiative with India, to build bonds and habits of cooperation that will stand the test of time. It is incumbent upon us, therefore, to undertake ambitious actions that correct our mutual history with India of missed opportunities and advance our common interests in the century ahead. We seek to work with India to win the global War on Terrorism, prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, enhance peace and stability in Asia, protect trade routes and sea lines of communication, and advance the spread of democracy. India and the United States now find ourselves on the same side on all of these critical strategic objectives. Our challenge, then, is to translate our converging interests into shared goals and compatible strategies designed to achieve those aims. In this context, the wide range of initiatives agreed to by President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh this July, including our agreement to promote civilian nuclear energy cooperation, represents a unique chance to build trust between the United States and India because of the resonance all these programs have for both countries. 

===Advantage counterplan=== 

The United States federal government should:
--negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan
--adopt a counterinsurgency strategy primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline
--create a strategy for the development of the Modern Silk Road and generate incentives to invest in this project while pressuring local governments to decrease bureaucratic obstacles to trade
--offer to substantially increase diplomatic rewards to Pakistan in exchange for cooperation against the Taliban and related insurgents
--neither implement rapid, large military withdrawals nor implement a strategy of global retrenchment
--not use an exclusive counter-terrorism strategy in Afghanistan
--cut the Future Combat Systems program and allocate that money towards increasing the size of the Army to 600,000, incorporating dedicated pay raises and retention bonuses to retain the most qualified personnel and towards substantially increasing the funding for USAID and the State department.
--not substantially reduce the size of the military budget.
--push for a global climate treaty at the Cancun climate talks and devote diplomatic resources towards that goal.

Clarifying commitment to Afghanistan solves insurgency and terrorism, solves COIN
Lynch, 08 - U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX)
In mid-January, Defense Secretary Robert Gates approved an order to send an additional 3,000 U.S. marines into Afghanistan in anticipation of the now annual Taliban spring offensive. It was the right thing to do, but such a temporary force increase falls far short of what is needed. U.S. military policy is still stumbling toward failure in Afghanistan—a failure that will likely have dire consequences beyond South Asia. Let’s be clear: The mission in Afghanistan is not in jeopardy mainly because NATO members refuse to provide sufficient troops or appropriate engagement protocols for the International Security and Assistance Force (ISAF). Neither is the mission in jeopardy because of any deficiency inherent in U.S. or Coalition counterinsurgency doctrine. The problem goes deeper, into the underlying political context of Coalition military operations. The real issue is the transitory and uncertain U.S. military posture in Afghanistan (and, by implication, across South Asia), which undermines the necessary link between relevant military security operations and positive political consequences.
Our uncertain commitment to Afghanistan has the effect of bolstering Taliban propaganda, which threatens to punish anyone cooperating with Coalition efforts. This intimidation of critical local U.S. allies, fueled by a credible fear that the United States will leave them in the lurch, is shaping conditions for a major failure in our counterinsurgency and counter-terror programs. Our unwillingness to commit ourselves for the long haul also provides incentives for Pakistan to hedge its bets. The U.S. government has urged the Pakistani government to act decisively to deal with its side of the Afghan-Pakistan border to dry up support for the Taliban effort in Afghanistan. But doing so entails significant risk for Pakistan, both internally and regionally. No Pakistani government, military or civilian led, will take those risks unless it knows U.S. power will remain engaged to backstop the effort. 
The only way to change the poisonous regional security dynamic that keeps Pakistan a safe haven for terrorists and jeopardizes Afghanistan’s future is to alter fundamentally the convoluted U.S. political strategy that has gone unchallenged over the past six years. There are understandable reasons for portraying the U.S. presence in Afghanistan as temporary, and for mixing into ISAF as many non-U.S. contributions as possible. The United States is not an imperial power and does not wish to be perceived as such in a region justifiably allergic to European colonial legacies. Nevertheless, those reasons do not outweigh the liabilities that the present policy brings. We must eliminate the uncertainty about U.S. staying power by strengthening and institutionalizing the U.S. security commitment to the region. The next administration, if not the present one, has a difficult but necessary choice to make that has been ducked for far too long.

Changing COIN to protect the population undercuts extremism and empirically works
Tellis, 9 – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
Reorienting the counterinsurgency campaign. The third important change at the strategic level that the Obama administration must direct is the reorientation of the ongoing counterinsurgency campaign to focus on the simple, yet radical, objectives of protecting civilians over destroying the enemy; protecting civilians by accepting risks if necessary to the safety of coalition forces; and protecting civilians by using at all possible times minimum rather than maximum force. The administration’s White Paper thankfully makes this objective its own when it declares that “our counter-insurgency strategy must integrate population security with building effective local governance and economic development. We will establish the security needed to provide space and time for stabilization and reconstruction activities.”77
The protection of the population must once again take center stage in the conduct of coalition military operations in Afghanistan. The U.S. Army’s new counterinsurgency manual, FM 3-24, directs that the mission be prosecuted in exactly this way. It is also the manner in which the United States systematically conducted counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan from late 2003 until 2005. After 2005, the U.S. military leadership in Afghanistan drifted back into an excessively “kinetic” approach to counterinsurgency, in which the use of superior firepower to attack insurgent groups took priority over protecting the population among whom they operated. Whatever this way of doing things gained in terms of enemy kills, it lost just as much if not more in terms of popular support for the coalition’s war against the Taliban, thanks to the awful increases in collateral damage produced by this strategy. As a result, the Taliban were able to replenish their ranks from the increasingly disaffected populace far faster than the U.S. military was able to destroy them.78
The continuance of such an attrition-centered counterinsurgency strategy will contribute ultimately to the defeat of the United States in Afghanistan because it will deepen the alienation within the population and increase support for the Taliban uprising. It is often easy to forget—especially by a technologically superior force—that the strategic goal of any counterinsurgency campaign is not the comprehensive physical destruction of the insurgents in the first instance, but rather shaping the political end game such that the people, among whom the insurgency operates, gradually shift their loyalties toward the state and away from the resistance. Strengthening this dynamic requires that the population be convinced that the government of the day will provide it, first and foremost, with personal security, namely that which Hobbes called the freedom from “fear of sudden death.” Loyalty toward the government is also enhanced by the provision of effective governance (meaning the presence of law and order and the speedy delivery of justice), responsive government (that is, rule that in some way incorporates consent and embodies binding ties between rulers and ruled at various levels), and minimal development (which must include the availability of adequate sustenance to ensure physical survival together with some opportunities to better one’s station in life).
These attributes of good government are particularly essential in Afghanistan because the threats to the lives of the common folk derive not simply from the insurgency but also from local predators such as drug rings, criminals, warlords, militias, tribal and village power brokers, and even petty government officials. When the hazards of coalition military operations against the Taliban are added to this list, the net result is that the already strong anger harbored by the population toward the government for its inability to ensure personal security—the first task of any legitimate state—is deepened further and transmuted into an antagonism directed equally at Kabul and the coalition. If the United States, therefore, is to win the war against the Taliban, it must make as its primary order of business the provision of what William Maley has correctly identified as “human security”79 and that requires, as Gilles Dorronsoro notes, reversing “the current trend of ever increasing violence.”80 If the U.S. counterinsurgency strategy can shift its emphasis from primarily killing the insurgents to protecting the population, the social medium within which the Taliban now thrives will progressively become inhospitable. When that outcome obtains, the insurgency will either die a slow death or be reduced to a law-and-order problem that can be controlled by local police or other law enforcement agencies.
From late 2003 through 2005, the United States prosecuted counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan in exactly this way. Operating under a unified civilian-military leadership collocated at the U.S. embassy in Kabul, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and Lieutenant General David W. Barno, commander of CFC-A, implemented a comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy that combined antiterrorism and anti-insurgency operations, the training of Afghan security forces, the delivery of reconstruction and governance, and regional engagement through an “area ownership” approach that emphasized the protection of the Afghan population above all else. The strategy of area ownership was a military innovation that was uniquely Barno’s: in institutionalizing this concept of operations, he overturned—incidentally, without authority—the previous U.S. overemphasis on counterterrorism, prosecuted mainly through kinetic attacks, in favor of an integrated counterinsurgency strategy that tied together multiple political, military, development, and information operations in the service of protecting the Afghan people.81 This innovation, which occurred long before the current U.S. Army counterinsurgency manual was revised to incorporate a similar approach, paid off in spades. Consequently, even though the Taliban insurgents were slowly creeping back from Pakistan to Afghanistan during this period, the political environment within Afghanistan was quite inhospitable to their operations.82

Rebuilding the silk road is key to sustainable development and stability
Kuchins et al 10 - Senior Fellow and Director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program (Andrew, Thomas Sanderson - Deputy Director and Senior Fellow in the CSIS Transnational Threats Project, David Gordon - Research Assistant and Program Coordinator, “Afghanistan: Building the Missing Link in the Modern Silk Road,” April, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_KuchinsSandersonGordon.pdf, EMM)
The Road to Regional Transformation
Achieving the Modern Silk Road is as much a challenge as it is a requirement for long-term success in Afghanistan. The U.S. government, in close consultation with regional players, must formulate practical policies to help tear down the obstacles outlined above and lay the groundwork for regional development and for the sustainable Afghan economy it would help create. Specifically, the U.S. government should focus on eight actions. 
First, the U.S. government should recognize the potential benefits of a Modern Silk Road and make its implementation a strategic priority. This effort should be linked with the unique opportunity created by the NDN. 
Second, the administration should create a long-term strategy for the Modern Silk Road’s development where trade with Afghanistan is the foundation for this approach. 
Third, to be successful, the United States must work with regional governments, donors, and other stakeholders in a coordinated manner. To build momentum for this engagement, the United States should undertake a comprehensive communications campaign that generates incentives to invest into the Silk Road concept. 
Fourth, while many U.S. government entities have an important role to play in the creation of the Modern Silk Road, a single coordinating body is necessary. This entity should be explicitly identified and empowered by the administration. The National Security Council is the likely organization for this task, and should undertake this effort as a high presidential priority in conjunction with other policies intended to promote long-term stabilization of Afghanistan.36
Fifth, even though the NDN has served as an incremental step toward regional integration, U.S. planners should seek access to additional corridors into Afghanistan. These include the following routes from Iran—Afghanistan (beginning in the Iranian port of Chabahar and entering Afghanistan at the border town of Zaranj before continuing to the Afghan ring road at Delaram), China—Central Asia—Afghanistan (originating in China’s Pacific ports and traveling via road and rail lines before entering Afghanistan), China—Pakistan— Afghanistan (beginning in China’s Pacific ports and transiting the Karakorum highway in Pakistan), Pakistan—Afghanistan (beginning at the Pakistani port of Gwadar and transiting Baluchistan before entering Afghanistan), and India— Pakistan—Afghanistan. While the challenges associated with these routes are apparent, the United States should put forth a concerted effort to gain access to them. (After all, who could have predicted that U.S. military supplies would be traversing Russia and Uzbekistan?) If the United States proves unable to make use of these routes, Washington should encourage and facilitate other Afghan-bound traffic to travel on them. Increasing intercontinental transport through these corridors is critical. 
Sixth, the United States and other stakeholders should partner with local governments to tear down the bureaucratic obstacles to trade outlined earlier. To accomplish this critical task, U.S. officials and other donors must demonstrate the value of such reform and provide financial and technical assistance in a manner that does not encroach on the sovereignty of these states. This initiative should be fully resourced and include development of streamlined, efficient, and more corruption-resistant procedures, especially at border crossings.37 Moreover, a determined effort should be made to coordinate existing aid programs designed to achieve the same result. 
Seventh, an increase in legal cross-border commerce will not help stabilize Afghanistan unless the country develops the capacity to levy official taxes on trade and turn this activity into sustainable income. The United States, Japan, and other donors should work with the Afghan government to build this capability in a manner that marginalizes the informal economy and discourages official corruption. 
And finally, the Obama administration must recognize that the Modern Silk Road will benefit all of Eurasia. Geopolitical competition in Eurasia is often seen in zero-sum terms. As a result, a strong U.S. push will likely be misconstrued as an effort to assert some sort of advantage over other regional players. Washington should be attuned to this inevitability and be prepared to articulate how the initiative will benefit partners and rivals alike. If this aspect is ignored, potential spoilers will be more likely. 
The NDN has provided the United States a unique, yet fleeting opportunity to develop the Modern Silk Road. In the end, if the opportunity offered by the Modern Silk Road is ignored, everything the United States will have achieved in Afghanistan will be short-lived, and instability will likely remain a permanent fixture in the heart of Eurasia. 

Increasing the Army creates a credible perception of resolve that deters aggression in the short term and facilitates diplomacy
New York Times, 2005 (editorial, “The Army We Need,” January 2, Lexis-Nexis)
The nation mourns the men and women in uniform who are killed or wounded in Iraq, one by one. But the public needs to be aware, and be worried, about the larger picture too. Our military and our military readiness have been strained and risk real, permanent damage. Twenty-five years ago, America's Army was a lot larger and had a lot less to do. Now, a substantially smaller force is struggling to cope with the demands placed on it by Iraq, where boots on the ground are in chronically short supply. For much of the past two years, the bulk of America's frontline ground forces have been tied down in an open-ended counterinsurgency war they were not expected, or given the resources, to fight. These soldiers and marines, active-duty and Reserve, have shown courage and determination, despite shortages of armor and other equipment, involuntarily extended enlistments and accelerated rotations back into combat. Their fortitude has allowed the Pentagon to sustain a situation that everyone recognizes cannot go on indefinitely, even though no end to the Iraqi conflict is yet in sight. The extended unplanned deployment of American forces is taking a heavy cumulative toll, especially on the Army and Army National Guard. It is undermining readiness and morale, and limiting America's ability to send substantial ground forces elsewhere to back up its diplomacy or respond to emerging threats. The Pentagon is beginning to resemble a desperate farmer who feeds his starving family the seed corn meant for sowing next year's crop. To keep enough boots on the ground now, it is sacrificing the ability to retain the leaders of tomorrow. As overdeployment has become chronic, promising young officers are opting not to re-enlist. When new crops of young people graduate from school, they will be less willing to combine their civilian careers with service in the Army National Guard; recruitment is already down almost 30 percent. The Regular Army is hurting too. Despite enlistment bonuses, it has had to speed up its reporting schedules, sending new recruits straight into basic training. This growing crisis is not due to a lack of preparedness on the part of military brass, but to the ideology on which preparedness was based. Before Iraq, Pentagon dogma -- supported by most Republican politicians and many conservative Democrats -- held that United States troops were war fighters. Peacekeeping and nation-building were jobs for Old Europe. Well, that was then. Now, more than half of the Regular Army's fighting forces have either served in Iraq, are currently there or can expect to be on their way soon, along with a substantial fraction of the Marine Corps and historically high proportions of the Army National Guard and Reserves. Rotations are being accelerated, with units that have already served in Iraq returning for second tours. These faster rotations are degrading readiness, wearing down equipment and leaving less time for normal training exercises. Reservists, including police, firefighters and other homeland defenders, are spending lengthy tours overseas. Four out of 10 Americans now serving in Iraq come from Reserve or National Guard units None of this should lead Americans to worry that the United States -- with the world's premier Air Force, Navy and nuclear strike force fully intact -- is defenseless. If a new threat suddenly arose -- if, for example, Al Qaeda threatened Saudi oil fields, radical Islamist officers got control of Pakistani nuclear weapons or China attacked Taiwan -- Washington could respond forcefully and decisively. But that does not mean that broader American security interests are not paying a price. Any additional foreign engagement that dragged on beyond a few months and required large numbers of ground troops would require a wider call-up of reserves and perhaps a return to the draft. Many potential enemies overseas doubt that the public would have the appetite for that kind of sacrifice. As a result, America's diplomatic clout is being subtly undermined. Iranian mullahs weighing whether to give up their nuclear programs may conclude that Washington is in no position to face them down. North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong Il, may also feel freer to proceed with his nuclear plans and move troops closer to the South Korean border. Chinese leaders may see this as an opportune time to escalate their bullying of Taiwan. Listing all the dangers is much easier than coming up with solutions. But there are some obvious short-term answers. Barring any unexpected breakthroughs in Iraq, Washington needs to increase its recruitment quotas sharply for active-duty service in the Army and Marine Corps. The current Army recruitment ceiling of just above 500,000 ought to go up to nearly 600,000, still substantially below the levels of the late 1980's. The Marines' ceiling should go up from the current 178,000 to around 200,000. Attracting those recruits will require offering financial and other inducements on top of the added payroll costs. 

Increasing resources solves and leverages enough diplomacy to solve
Hague 9/27 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)
So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough.
The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity.
Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences.
It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy.
For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century.
At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away.
To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations.
Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits.
And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely.
Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal.
Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver.
The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home.
That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act.
The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that.
And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change.
And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition.
But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light.
We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one.
That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift.
There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy.
A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now.
So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking.
When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world.
The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate.
So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper.
We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries.
Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction.
There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry.
But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too.
So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective".
We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services.
I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India.
The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy."

===Heg advantage=== 

Latent power checks
Wohlforth 07 (William) Olin Fellow in International Security Studies at Yale and Associate Professor in the Department of Government at Dartmouth, “Unipolar Stability,” Harvard International Review, Spring (http://hir.harvard.edu/articles/print.php?article=1611)
The problem with this argument is that it fails to distinguish between actual and latent power. One must be careful to take into account both the level of resources that can be mobilized and the degree to which a government actually tries to mobilize them. And how much a government asks of its public is partly a function of the severity of the challenges that it faces. Indeed, one can never know for sure what a state is capable of until it has been seriously challenged. Yale historian Paul Kennedy coined the term “imperial overstretch” to describe the situation in which a state’s actual and latent capabilities cannot possibly match its foreign policy commitments. This situation should be contrasted with what might be termed “self-inflicted overstretch”—a situation in which a state lacks the sufficient resources to meet its current foreign policy commitments in the short term, but has untapped latent power and readily available policy choices that it can use to draw on this power. This is arguably the situation that the United States is in today. But the US government has not attempted to extract more resources from its population to meet its foreign policy commitments. Instead, it has moved strongly in the opposite direction by slashing personal and corporate tax rates. Although it is fighting wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and claims to be fighting a global “war” on terrorism, the United States is not acting like a country under intense international pressure. Aside from the volunteer servicemen and women and their families, US citizens have not been asked to make sacrifices for the sake of national prosperity and security. The country could clearly devote a greater proportion of its economy to military spending: today it spends only about 4 percent of its GDP on the military, as compared to 7 to 14 percent during the peak years of the Cold War. It could also spend its military budget more efficiently, shifting resources from expensive weapons systems to boots on the ground. Even more radically, it could reinstitute military conscription, shifting resources from pay and benefits to training and equipping more soldiers. On the economic front, it could raise taxes in a number of ways, notably on fossil fuels, to put its fiscal house back in order. No one knows for sure what would happen if a US president undertook such drastic measures, but there is nothing in economics, political science, or history to suggest that such policies would be any less likely to succeed than China is to continue to grow rapidly for decades. Most of those who study US politics would argue that the likelihood and potential success of such power-generating policies depends on public support, which is a function of the public’s perception of a threat. And as unnerving as terrorism is, there is nothing like the threat of another hostile power rising up in opposition to the United States for mobilizing public support. With latent power in the picture, it becomes clear that unipolarity might have more built-in self-reinforcing mechanisms than many analysts realize. It is often noted that the rise of a peer competitor to the United States might be thwarted by the counterbalancing actions of neighboring powers. 

Hegemony is unnecessary
Preble 8/3 (Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, taught history at St. Cloud State University and Temple University, was a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy, Ph.D. in history from Temple University. “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” 8/3/10) [[@http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]
Most in Washington still embraces the notion that America is, and forever will be, the world’s indispensable nation. Some scholars, however, questioned the logic of hegemonic stability theory from the very beginning. A number continue to do so today. They advance arguments diametrically at odds with the primacist consensus. Trade routes need not be policed by a single dominant power; the international economy is complex and resilient. Supply disruptions are likely to be temporary, and the costs of mitigating their effects should be borne by those who stand to lose — or gain — the most. Islamic extremists are scary, but hardly comparable to the threat posed by a globe-straddling Soviet Union armed with thousands of nuclear weapons. It is frankly absurd that we spend more today to fight Osama bin Laden and his tiny band of murderous thugs than we spent to face down Joseph Stalin and Chairman Mao. Many factors have contributed to the dramatic decline in the number of wars between nation-states; it is unrealistic to expect that a new spasm of global conflict would erupt if the United States were to modestly refocus its efforts, draw down its military power, and call on other countries to play a larger role in their own defense, and in the security of their respective regions.

Heg fails
Mastanduno 9 (Michael, Professor of Government at Dartmouth, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco, DB)
During the cold war the United States dictated the terms of adjustment. It derived the necessary leverage because it provided for the security of its economic partners and because there were no viable alter natives to an economic order centered on the United States. After the cold war the outcome of adjustment struggles is less certain because the United States is no longer in a position to dictate the terms. The United States, notwithstanding its preponderant power, no longer enjoys the same type of security leverage it once possessed, and the very success of the U.S.-centered world economy has afforded America’s supporters a greater range of international and domestic economic options. The claim that the United States is unipolar is a statement about its cumulative economic, military, and other capabilities.1 But preponderant capabilities across the board do not guarantee effective influence in any given arena. U.S. dominance in the international security arena no longer translates into effective leverage in the international economic arena. And although the United States remains a dominant international economic player in absolute terms, after the cold war it has found itself more vulnerable and constrained than it was during the golden economic era after World War II. It faces rising economic challengers with their own agendas and with greater discretion in international economic policy than America’s cold war allies had enjoyed. The United States may continue to act its own way, but it can no longer count on getting its own way.

Transition is peaceful
Ikenberry 2008 – Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton (John, Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West”, ProQuest, WEA)
That course, however, is not inevitable. The rise of China does not have to trigger a wrenching hegemonic transition. The U.S.-Chinese power transition can be very different from those of the past because China faces an international order that is fundamentally different from those that past rising states confronted. China does not just face the United States; it faces a Western-centered system that is open, integrated, and rule-based, with wide and deep political foundations. The nuclear revolution, meanwhile, has made war among great powers unlikely -- eliminating the major tool that rising powers have used to overturn international systems defended by declining hegemonic states. Today's Western order, in short, is hard to overturn and easy to join.

NO overstretch and it doesn’t affect heg 
Lieber, 8 - Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert, “The Declinists Are Wrong Again,” Perspectives Papers on Current Affairs, 7/30, [[http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives47.html]])
The Declinists Are Back
Scarcely a day goes by without yet another book, article, speaker or report asserting that America is in trouble. We are told that the rise of China and India, the recovery of Putin’s Russia and the expansion of the European Union signal a profound shift in geopolitical power. War and insurgency in Iraq and the tenacity of the Taliban and al-Qaeda in Afghanistan are cited as evidence that military commitments are “breaking” the army. The leaders of Iran and North Korea vilify America and frustrate efforts to limit their nuclear programs. President Chavez of Venezuela, fortified by $130 per barrel oil, denounces Yankee imperialism and threatens to cut off oil shipments to the US. Meanwhile, opinion polls show widespread anti-American sentiment abroad.
On the domestic front, the subprime mortgage crisis, investment bank turmoil, a yawning balance of payments deficit, and the falling dollar lead to a warning that, “We are competing – and losing – in a global marketplace.” And America has become an “enfeebled” superpower, according to Fareed Zakaria, who adds that while the US will not be replaced in the foreseeable future, nevertheless, “Just as the rest of the world is opening up, America is closing down.”
The declinists’ central proposition holds that both the rise of other countries and an increasing degree of counterbalancing are transforming the international system and profoundly weakening the leading role of the United States in world affairs.
The new declinism rests not only on a global narrative, but it also makes an argument about fundamental domestic weaknesses. It points to the long-term burdens of entitlement programs, which will face large unfunded liabilities. Deficits in international trade and payments and the federal budget, a major credit crisis, collapse of the residential housing bubble and economic turbulence add to the list of troubles. Another clearly overdue task concerns the need to reduce dependence on imported oil and the resultant economic and security vulnerabilities. America’s infrastructure is aging and in need of repair and modernization. In addition, the effectiveness of government institutions may be less than optimal, as evident in the chaotic response to Hurricane Katrina, ongoing problems at the Department of Homeland Security, cumbersome interaction among intelligence agencies, and the need for more effective coordination of national security policy.
An Alternative Viewpoint
It is premature to write the epitaph for American power and leadership. In contrast to these arguments and analyses, America continues to maintain a position of relative predominance, and despite an increasing diffusion of power, no single country has emerged as a plausible counterpart or peer competitor. Apart from the long-term possibility of China, none is likely to do so. 
Similarly, without minimizing the impact of domestic problems, it would be wise not to overstate the likelihood of fundamental economic decline. Current challenges are ultimately manageable and are likely to prove less daunting than those that afflicted the US economy in the mid- to late-1970s and early 1980s. It is worth reminding ourselves that the overall size and dynamism of the economy remains unmatched. Consider that America continues to lead on comparative measures of competitiveness, technology and innovation, for example ranking first in information technology and second (after Finland) in overall competitiveness. The US even ranks first in “space competitiveness.” Higher education and science represent another huge asset. America’s major research universities are outstanding in their international stature and rankings, occupying 17 of the top 20 places and 35 of the top 50. Noteworthy, 70 percent of the world’s Nobel Prize winners work in US institutions.
Broad demographic trends also favor the United States, whereas countries that are possible peer competitors face much more adverse patterns of aging populations. This is not only true for Russia, Europe, and Japan, but even China is affected as a result of its long-standing one child policy. America’s birthrate is consistently higher than in those countries and its population continues to grow through natural increase as well as immigration. Population patterns thus contribute to the long-term persistence of American predominance.
Militarily, no other country possesses anything like the capacity of the United States to project power on a global basis. American military technology remains unmatched, and even when foreign countries may achieve comparable quality in producing an individual type of modern weapon, none come close to parity in the overall systems applicable to land, sea or air warfare. While military spending is enormous in real terms, the defense budget amounts to approximately 4.2 percent of GDP. That contrasts with 6.6 percent at the height of the Reagan buildup and double digit percentages during the early and middle years of the Cold War. In short, the costs of national defense do not by themselves pose an imminent danger of overstretch.

The scale of backlash is small
Gray 9—IR and strategic studies, U Reading, England. PhD (Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, January 2009, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=902)
The “lone wolf” America that elects to withdraw from active global security engagement would discover that its attempt to be disinterested in the extra-American world was damaging to the country’s interests. Also, such an American policy could not long endure because it would be rejected culturally by many Americans. Although American culture favors limited liability abroad, it still demands to be spread so as to colonize a world that stubbornly remains backward. Almost regardless of material considerations, too many Americans want to improve the outside world for wholehearted security withdrawal to be sustainable. 

Pullback would be short term, not abandoning heg
Gray 9—IR and strategic studies, U Reading, England. PhD (Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, January 2009, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=902)
After Iraq, Americans could well decide that the possibilities of policy and strategic error are so large that the country should not trust itself to play the global guardian role. But one can predict that such a public policy mood would not long endure. The consequences of America-light purposeful behavior globally would come to be too uncomfortable for most Americans. Admittedly, this is a bold, perhaps rash, prediction. But it expresses the view that were the United States to disengage seriously from actual and potential security duties around Eurasia, it would soon regret the decision. This is not to neglect the possibility that elements of such a process of American disengagement from Eurasia, on-shore if not off-shore, might be compelled by the political decisions and strategic advances of others. Policy and strategy decisions may not be wholly discretionary for Washington.

===Stability advantage=== 

No impact to Afghan collapse- US safeguards and alliances with neighbors prevent spillover
Silverman, 09 - PhD in international relations-government and, as a Ford Foundation Project Specialist (11/19/09, Jerry Mark, The National Interest, “Sturdy Dominoes,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22512)
Many advocates of continuing or racheting up our presence in Afghanistan are cut from the same domino-theory cloth as those of the Vietnam era. They posit that losing in Afghanistan would almost certainly lead to the further “loss” of the entire South and central Asian region. Although avoiding explicit reference to “falling dominos,” recent examples include S. Frederick Starr (School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University); Sir David Richards (the UK’s relatively new Chief of the General Staff); and, in The National Interest, Ahmed Rashid.
The fear that Pakistan and central Asian governments are too weak to withstand the Taliban leads logically to the proposition—just as it did forty years ago—that only the United States can defend the region from its own extremist groups and, therefore, that any loss of faith in America will result in a net gain for pan-Islamist movements in a zero-sum global competition for power. Unfortunately, the resurrection of “falling dominos” as a metaphor for predicted consequences of an American military withdrawal reflects a profound inability to re-envision the nature of today’s global political environment and America’s place in it.
The current worry is that Pakistan will revive support for the Taliban and return to its historically rooted policy of noninterference in local governance or security arrangements along the frontier. This fear is compounded by a vision of radical Islamists gaining access to Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal. Those concerns are fueled by the judgment that Pakistan’s new democratically elected civilian government is too weak to withstand pressures by its most senior military officers to keep its pro-Afghan Taliban option open. From that perspective, any sign of American “dithering” would reinforce that historically-rooted preference, even as the imperative would remain to separate the Pakistani-Taliban from the Afghan insurgents. Further, any significant increase in terrorist violence, especially within major Pakistani urban centers, would likely lead to the imposition of martial law and return to an authoritarian military regime, weakening American influence even further. At its most extreme, that scenario ends with the most frightening outcome of all—the overthrow of relatively secular senior Pakistani generals by a pro-Islamist and anti-Western group of second-tier officers with access to that country’s nuclear weapons.
Beyond Pakistan, advocates of today’s domino theory point to the Taliban’s links to both the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and the Islamic Jihad Union, and conclude that a Taliban victory in Afghanistan would encourage similar radical Islamist movements in Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In the face of a scenario of increasing radicalization along Russia’s relatively new, southern borders, domino theorists argue that a NATO retreat from Afghanistan would spur the projection of its own military and political power into the resulting “vacuum” there.
The primary problem with the worst-case scenarios predicted by the domino theorists is that no analyst is really prescient enough to accurately predict how decisions made by the United States today will affect future outcomes in the South and central Asian region. Their forecasts might occur whether or not the United States withdraws or, alternatively, increases its forces in Afghanistan. Worse, it is entirely possible that the most dreaded consequences will occur only as the result of a decision to stay.
With the benefit of hindsight, we know that the earlier domino theory falsely represented interstate and domestic political realities throughout most of Southeast Asia in 1975. Although it is true that American influence throughout much of Southeast Asia suffered for a few years following Communist victories in Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam, we now know that while we viewed the Vietnam War as part of a larger conflict, our opponent’s focus was limited to the unification of their own country. Although border disputes erupted between Vietnam and Cambodia, China and the Philippines, actual military conflicts occurred only between the supposedly fraternal Communist governments of Vietnam, China and Cambodia. Neither of the two competing Communist regimes in Cambodia survived. Further, no serious threats to install Communist regimes were initiated outside of Indochina, and, most importantly, the current political situation in Southeast Asia now conforms closely to what Washington had hoped to achieve in the first place. It is, of course, unfortunate that the transition from military conflict in Vietnam to the welcome situation in Southeast Asia today was initially violent, messy, bloody, and fraught with revenge and violations of human rights. But as the perpetrators, magnitude, and victims of violence changed, the level of violence eventually declined.

Regional cooperation will prevent escalation
Innocent and Carpenter, 9 - foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)
Additionally, regional stakeholders, especially Russia and Iran, have an interest in a stable Afghanistan. Both countries possess the capacity to facilitate development in the country and may even be willing to assist Western forces. In July, leaders in Moscow allowed the United States to use Russian airspace to transport troops and lethal military equipment into Afghanistan. Yet another relevant regional player is the Collective Security Treaty Organization, made up of Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia, and Belarus. At the moment, CSTO appears amenable to forging a security partnership with NATO. CSTO secretary general Nikolai Bordyuzha told journalists in March 2009 of his bloc’s intention to cooperate. “The united position of the CSTO is that we should give every kind of aid to the anti-terror coalition operating in Afghanistan. . . . The interests of NATO and the CSTO countries regarding Afghanistan conform unequivocally.”83
Mutual interests between Western forces and Afghanistan’s surrounding neighbors can converge on issues of transnational terrorism, the Caspian and Central Asia region’s abundant energy resources, cross-border organized crime, and weapons smuggling. Enhanced cooperation alone will not stabilize Afghanistan, but engaging stakeholders may lead to tighter regional security.

Regional cooperation will prevent escalation
Innocent and Carpenter, 9 - foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)
Additionally, regional stakeholders, especially Russia and Iran, have an interest in a stable Afghanistan. Both countries possess the capacity to facilitate development in the country and may even be willing to assist Western forces. In July, leaders in Moscow allowed the United States to use Russian airspace to transport troops and lethal military equipment into Afghanistan. Yet another relevant regional player is the Collective Security Treaty Organization, made up of Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia, and Belarus. At the moment, CSTO appears amenable to forging a security partnership with NATO. CSTO secretary general Nikolai Bordyuzha told journalists in March 2009 of his bloc’s intention to cooperate. “The united position of the CSTO is that we should give every kind of aid to the anti-terror coalition operating in Afghanistan. . . . The interests of NATO and the CSTO countries regarding Afghanistan conform unequivocally.”83
Mutual interests between Western forces and Afghanistan’s surrounding neighbors can converge on issues of transnational terrorism, the Caspian and Central Asia region’s abundant energy resources, cross-border organized crime, and weapons smuggling. Enhanced cooperation alone will not stabilize Afghanistan, but engaging stakeholders may lead to tighter regional security.

No escalation—shared interests.
Collins and Wohlforth 4 (Kathleen, Prof PoliSci–Notre Dame and William, Prof Government–Dartmouth, “Defying ‘Great Game’ Expectations”, Strategic Asia 2003-4: Fragility and Crisis, p. 312-3)
Conclusion The popular great game lens for analyzing Central Asia fails to capture the declared interests of the great powers as well as the best reading of their objective interests in security and economic growth. Perhaps more importantly, it fails to explain their actual behavior on the ground, as well the specific reactions of the Central Asian states themselves. Naturally, there are competitive elements in great power relations. Each country’s policymaking community has slightly different preferences for tackling the challenges presented in the region, and the more influence they have the more able they are to shape events in concordance with those preferences. But these clashing preferences concern the means to serve ends that all the great powers share. To be sure, policy-makers in each capital would prefer that their own national firms or their own government’s budget be the beneficiaries of any economic rents that emerge from the exploitation and transshipment of the region’s natural resources. But the scale of these rents is marginal even for Russia’s oil-fueled budget. And for taxable profits to be created, the projects must make sense economically—something that is determined more by markets and firms than governments. Does it matter? The great game is an arresting metaphor that serves to draw people’s attention to an oft-neglected region. The problem is the great-game lens can distort realities on the ground, and therefore bias analysis and policy. For when great powers are locked in a competitive fight, the issues at hand matter less than their implication for the relative power of contending states. Power itself becomes the issue—one that tends to be nonnegotiable. Viewing an essential positive-sum relationship through zero sum conceptual lenses will result in missed opportunities for cooperation that leaves all players—not least the people who live in the region—poorer and more insecure. While cautious realism must remain the watchword concerning an impoverished and potentially unstable region comprised of fragile and authoritarian states, our analysis yields at least conditional and relative optimism. Given the confluence of their chief strategic interests, the major powers are in a better position to serve as a stabilizing force than analogies to the Great Game or the Cold War would suggest. It is important to stress that the region’s response to the profoundly destabilizing shock of coordinated terror attacks was increased cooperation between local governments and China and Russia, and—multipolar rhetoric notwithstanding—between both of them and the United States. If this trend is nurtured and if the initial signals about potential SCO-CSTO-NATO cooperation are pursued, another destabilizing shock might generate more rather than less cooperation among the major powers. Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Kazakhstan are clearly on a trajectory that portends longer-term cooperation with each of the great powers. As military and economic security interests become more entwined, there are sound reasons to conclude that “great game” politics will not shape Central Asia’s future in the same competitive and destabilizing way as they have controlled its past. To the contrary, mutual interests in Central Asia may reinforce the broader positive developments in the great powers’ relations that have taken place since September 11, as well as reinforce regional and domestic stability in Central Asia.

===Terrorism advantage=== 

Afghanistan not a key safe haven
Basman 10/8 (Itzik Basman, U.S. News and World Report, “[[http://basmanroselaw.blogspot.com/2010/10/mort-zuckerman-on-them-mean-ol-afghan.html|Mort Zuckerman on Them Mean, Ol' Afghan Blues: Very Strong Argument]],” 10/8/10) [[http://basmanroselaw.blogspot.com/2010/10/mort-zuckerman-on-them-mean-ol-afghan.html]]
We committed ourselves to a major military effort despite the fact that Afghanistan is no longer al Qaeda's primary base of operations, as it was in 2001. That has shifted to Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, and other countries to the point where al Qaeda is no longer dependent on any one country for its operational base. In Afghanistan, al Qaeda's numbers are insignificant, perhaps 50 to 100 core members, according to CIA Director Leon Panetta. Securing Afghanistan, in other words, is no longer the solution to al Qaeda.

Terrorists can’t get or use nukes
ROTHSTEIN, AUER AND SIEGEL 2004 (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein) 
Of these, the first is the least likely. It would be extremely difficult for terrorists to acquire an intact weapon from one of the eight nuclear weapon states. The security of these weapons, especially those in Russia and Pakistan, is a valid concern. But to detonate an intact, stolen Russian nuke, a terrorist would have to get past security safeguards built into the weapon, such as authorization codes. And Pakistani nuclear weapons (believed to number up to 50) are reportedly stored separately from the weapons' cores. Besides the difficulties associated with obtaining a ready-made, good-to-go nuke, there would be other barriers--such as transporting and preparing to deliver it undetected. This is perhaps the lowest probability, highest consequence scenario of nuclear terrorism.

No retaliation
SPRING 2001 (Baker, Research Fellow at Heritage Foundation, Heritage Backgrounder 1477, Sept 20, http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/BG1477.cfm)
Nuclear retaliation is not appropriate for every kind of attack against America. Some opponents of missile defense believe that the United States has an effective nuclear deterrent that, if necessary, could be used to respond to attacks on the homeland. But no responsible U.S. official is suggesting that the United States consider the use of nuclear weapons in response to the horrific September 11 attacks. In most cases of attack on the United States, the nuclear option would not be appropriate, but a defense response will almost always be appropriate. The United States needs to be able to resort to defensive options.

COIN works—they don’t assume new timeline—set-up just finished and initial operations succeeding
Max Boot, Council on Foreign Relations National Security Senior Fellow, 9/2/2010, "Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism ," http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html, access 9/4/10
The assumption that underlies all these ideas is that the strategy currently being implemented has already failed. But is that really the case? Having spent the first half of July in Afghanistan along with other scholars at Petraeus's invitation, I am struck by how premature such judgments are—and how reminiscent of attempts to write off the surge in Iraq as a failure when it had barely begun. What I found is a strategy that is only beginning to be implemented, and one that has a good chance of working--provided more attention is paid to ameliorating Afghanistan's crippling governance woes. That will not be easy to do, but it offers a greater likelihood of an acceptable outcome than any realistic alternative.
Although U.S. and allied forces have been in Afghanistan for nine years as part of NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), it is only in the past year that they have begun to wage war in earnest. As recently as 2008, there were only 30,000 American troops in the country. By the end of August, there will be close to 100,000—a much greater increase in percentage terms than during the Iraq surge, when U.S. troop levels went from 130,000 to 160,000.
General Stanley McChrystal spent much of his year in charge (June 2009-June 2010) simply building up the infrastructure to command and support these forces—a formidable undertaking that involved everything from expanding bases and runways to creating an operational headquarters to manage the war on a daily basis. New command structures were needed to manage detentions and the training and equipping of Afghan security forces, as well as the buildup of top-tier Special Operations Forces such as the SEALs and Delta Force.
By the time he was fired in June, McChrystal had just begun to use this nascent infrastructure to carry out a concerted counterinsurgency campaign in key districts around the country. It is still too soon to draw any conclusions about these efforts, which will undergo inevitable adjustment and fine-tuning by Petraeus, because the full complement of surge forces is only now arriving. But early indications are relatively promising. Certainly, the initial operations are not the failure they have often been made out to be.
McChrystal's first major focus was in Marjah, a district in central Helmand Province that I visited in early July. Prior to the Marine-led assault that began in February, Marjah had been completely outside the control of the Afghan government and the international military force. The Taliban had been in charge, and they had used it as a staging ground for attacks elsewhere in southern Afghanistan. Marjah was also a center of the global opium trade, which helps fund the insurgency. Coalition aircraft had even been told not to fly over it because it was too dangerous.
Today, six months into Operation Moshtarak, the Marines and their Afghan partners are solidly established in the heart of Marjah and are gradually expanding their control outward. Marines continue to be attacked, but they have already managed to deny the Taliban the use of Marjah as a base. Attacks in neighboring districts, as a result, are down sharply.

We’re winning now – Helmand proves, violence is a lagging indicator
O’Hanlon 10 (Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Staying Power,” Sep/Oct 2010, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89 Issue 5, p63-79, 17p)
THE U.S. APPROACH--originally crafted by General Stanley McChrystal, now being implemented by General David Petraeus, and supported by such civilians as U.S. Ambassador Eikenberry; Mark Sedwill, NATO's senior civilian representative in Afghanistan; and Staffan de Mistura, the UN special representative in Afghanistan--focuses on the south and east of the country, where insurgent activity has been greatest and where local populations have been most inclined to support or tolerate the insurgency. The approach is discriminating: of nearly 400 districts nationwide, U.S. forces are placing primary emphasis (in terms of military and civilian resources) on 81 and secondary emphasis on 41. The initial goal is to establish a contiguous zone of safety throughout the south and the east in which the population can feel relatively secure, Afghan institutions can take root, and transportation and commerce can develop.
There have already been major pockets of success, especially in southwestern Afghanistan's Helmand Province. To be sure, progress in the town of Marja, where the U.S. military launched a high-profile operation in February, remains slow.But that operation was overemphasized, both as a barometer of the war's momentum and as a model for future operations, because Marja had been a Taliban stronghold without any government presence; most major towns and cities feature a less visible insurgent presence combined with some degree of government capacity. As a whole, Helmand Province is improving, with most major population centers now opening schools and markets, farmers moving away from poppy as their preferred crop, and overall levels of violence dropping. (NATO and the Obama administration should better measure and document this progress; as it is now, observers must rely too much on anecdotal information and conversations with military and civilian officials, such as those I had when I visited Afghanistan in May.)
Such promising trends are not present, however, in Kandahar, the region that includes southern Afghanistan's largest city and that the Taliban consider their spiritual and historic capital. The number of assassinations of political leaders and tribal elders in Kandahar is up severalfold over the last few years, to at least one or two a week. Overall, rates of violence in the region have roughly tripled since 2006, according to ISAF figures.
Neither has the tide of battle turned against the insurgency on a national scale. From 2009 to 2010, overall levels of violence rose by 25-50 percent (depending on the metric used), and the Taliban showed increasing willingness to target civilians. ISAF currently estimates that only 35 percent of the priority districts have "good" security or better, a figure unchanged from late 2009; the number of such districts with "satisfactory" security has improved modestly, from 40 percent in late 2009 to 46 percent in the spring of 2010. Although the situation is not worsening, many priority districts still have only mediocre levels of security.
But it should not be surprising that the level of violence is still rising. The reduction of violence is a lagging, not a leading, indicator of success; in Iraq, for example, troop casualty levels increased through the first six months of the surge, as additional U.S. troops entered the country. Also, as its forces have tripled in size over the last two years, ISAF has been initiating far more contact with the enemy than before. And although U.S. commanders do not emphasize this point because enemy body counts are not a highly reliable measure of success, they acknowledge that the coalition is now far more effective when it comes to arresting and killing key insurgent leaders than it was just last year. Crucially, while making these adjustments, the coalition has kept civilian casualties low. McChrystal's directives on reducing the use of force around civilians have apparently reduced the proportion of ISAF-caused civilian casualties from 40 percent in 2008 to 25 percent in 2009 and less than 20 percent in 2010.

Poll after poll demonstrates that Afghans increasingly want the government NOT the Taliban. Accusations of poll bias merely demonstrate the popularity of the government in secure areas. 
Grant, 10 (http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf, George, Henry Jackson Society Project for Democratic Geopolitics, “Succeeding in Afghanistan,” crosspartisan, British think-tank, George Grant is the Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society, Sept 16).
Moreover, recall that over everything else, Afghanistan is a war for the hearts and minds of the people. The alternative to the government that is being offered to Afghans is hardly the Swedish Social Democratic Party. Opinion poll after opinion poll in Afghanistan reveals that the vast majority of Afghans reject comprehensively the alternative being offered to them by the Taliban. Just 6 per cent said they wanted the Taliban in charge of Afghanistan in a major poll released at the start of this year, as compared with 90 per cent who favoured the government. Equally encouraging was that fully 70 per cent said they felt things in Afghanistan were going in the right direction, as opposed to just 40 per cent in 2009.53 The main reason that support is withheld in spite of this is because the Taliban are still in a position to retaliate against those who do so. Far and away the biggest problems confronting Afghans - as the poll again supports - are lack of opportunity, lack of security and a weak and corrupt government that can deliver neither.54 These are all problems that are within the government side’s power to rectify. The ball is firmly in their court. Sceptics will argue that in an environment such as Afghanistan, such opinion polls can only really be conducted in areas where the government has at least some control, and so are bound to be biased. If this is so, what it actually shows is that where the government does have control of an area and security exists, support from the people quickly follows.

Turn—COIN is causing a shift away from weapons modernization vis-à-vis China—the plan reverses this by eliminating COIN
Michael Crowley, The New Republic staff writer, 1/4/2010, "COIN Toss," http://www.tnr.com/article/world/coin-toss, access 9/4
The stakes for the United States in Afghanistan are enormous. But, in a more parochial sense, so are the stakes for CNAS and what you might call the cult of counterinsurgency. Washington is already planning for a more counterinsurgency-oriented future--witness the latest Pentagon budget, which shifts billions of dollars away from high-tech weapons systems designed for fighting a great power like China, toward equipment like aerial drones and armored personnel carriers. Meanwhile, the liberal national security establishment has come to embrace a doctrine that went into vogue under the dreaded Bush regime. In an essay titled “Petraeus the Progressive” published in the journal Democracy last winter, Rachel Kleinfeld, president of the center-left Truman National Security Project, celebrated Petraeus for emphasizing the battle for Iraqi hearts and minds over “outgunning and outmanning the enemy.” Other liberals warm to the doctrine’s intellectual sheen. “Counterinsurgency is not just thinking man’s warfare--it is the graduate level of war,” states an epigraph in the Army’s counterinsurgency manual.

Modernization creates interlocked Chinese modernization—makes war inevitable
Chris Twomey, National Security Affairs Dept. Assistant Professor, Contemporary Conflict Center Co-Director, Feb 2009, "Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs: Dangerous Dynamism," http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism, access 9/6/10
China and the United States are not in a strategic weapons arms race. Nonetheless, their modernization and sizing decisions increasingly are framed with the other in mind. Nuclear weapons are at the core of this interlocking pattern of development. In particular, China is the only permanent member of the UN Security Council expanding its arsenal; it is also enhancing its arsenal. The basic facts of Chinese strategic modernization are well known, if the details remain frustratingly opaque. China is deploying road-mobile, solid-fueled missiles, giving it a heighted degree of security in its second-strike capability. It is beginning to deploy ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs). It is researching a wide range of warhead and delivery systems technologies that will lead to increased accuracy and, more pointedly, increased penetration against ballistic missile defenses. The size of China's deliverable arsenal against the United States will undoubtedly increase beyond the few dozen that it possessed recently.[1] The pace of growth thus far has been moderate, although China has only recently developed reliable, survivable delivery systems. The final endpoint remains mired in opacity and uncertainty, although several score of deliverable warheads seems likely for the near term. These developments on the strategic side are coupled with elements of conventional modernization that impinge on the strategic balance.[2]
The relevant issue, however, is not simply an evaluation of the Chinese modernization program, but rather an evaluation of the interaction of that modernization with U.S. capabilities and interests. U.S. capabilities are also changing. Under the provisions of START and SORT, the United States has continued to engage in quantitative reductions of its operational nuclear arsenal. At the same, there is ongoing updating of warhead guidance and fusing systems. Ballistic missile defense systems of a variety of footprints are being deployed. The U.S. SSBN force now leans more toward the Pacific than the Atlantic, reversing the Cold War deployment. Guam's capacity to support heavy bombers and attack submarines has been enhanced. Furthermore, advances in U.S. conventional weaponry have been so substantial that they too promise strategic effects: prompt global strike holds out the promise of a U.S. weapon on target anywhere in the world in less than an hour and B-2s with highly accurate weapons can sustain strategic effects over a campaign.
What are the concerns posed by these two programs of dynamic strategic arsenals? Most centrally, the development of the strategic forces detailed above has increasingly assumed an interlocked form. The U.S. revolution in precision guided munitions was followed by an emphasis on mobility in the Chinese missile force. U.S. missile defense systems have clearly spurred an emphasis on countermeasures in China's ICBM force and quantitative buildups in its regional missile arsenals.[3] Beijing's new submarine-based forces further enhance the security of China's second-strike capability in the face of a potential U.S. strike but are likely to lead to increased attention to anti-submarine warfare in the United States. China's recent anti-satellite test provoked a U.S. demonstration of similar capabilities. Such reciprocal responses have the potential to move toward a tightly coupled arms race and certainly have already worsened threat perceptions on each side. The potential for conflict is not simply that of inadvertent escalation; there are conflicts of interests between the two. Heightening threat perceptions in that context greatly complicates diplomacy.
Further, the dangers of inadvertent escalation have been exacerbated by some of these moves. Chinese SSBN deployment will stress an untested command-and-control system. Similar dangers in the Cold War were mitigated, although not entirely overcome, over a period of decades of development of personnel and technical solutions. China appears to have few such controls in place today. U.S. deployment of highly accurate nuclear warheads is consistent with a first-strike doctrine and seems sized for threats larger than "rogue" nations. These too would undermine stability in an intense crisis.

Al Qaeda is expanding into Yemen as a new stronghold
Freeman 10—foreign correspondent (Colin, 1 9, The Irish Times, “Divisions Create Breeding Ground for Terrorism,” Lexis Nexis)
Experts say al-Qaeda is set to exploit divisision between the North and south of Yemen to attract recruits, writes SUDARSAN RAGHAVANin Aden, Yemen A HATRED of the government in southern Yemen is complicating US-backed efforts to stem al-Qaeda s ambitions across the region, according to western and Yemeni officials, analysts and human rights activists. The concerns highlight the extent to which the United States, as it deepens its military engagement here, is teaming up with a government facing internal divisions that in some ways are more complex than those in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. In a speech on Thursday, US president Barack Obama said his country has worked closely with its partners, including Yemen, to inflict major blows against al-Qaeda. But experts familiar with the group here say it is poised to exploit the country s divisions to attract recruits and more sympathy from the south s powerful tribes. Al-Qaeda dreams of secession, said Najib Ghallab, a political science professor at Sanaa University. It wants to turn the south into the perfect breeding ground for global terrorism. Once two countries, Yemen was unified in 1990. But a brief civil war broke out in 1994. From the north, President Ali Abdullah Saleh dispatched thousands of Yemeni mujahideen who had fought in Afghanistan as well as Salafists, who follow a strict interpretation of Islam, to fight the southerners. Ever since, tension has gripped the region. The government s resources are stretched thin, as it also grapples with a Shia rebellion in the north. Southerners contend that the government has denied them their share of oil revenue, and has dismissed many southerners from military and government jobs. A wave of protests has roiled the south, prompting a government crackdown. Many members of the Southern Movement, a loosely knit coalition, now demand secession. We no longer want our rights from the government. We want a separate north and south, said Ahmed Kassim, a secessionist leader who spoke in a hushed tone inside a car on a recent day in the southern port city of Aden. In May, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the affiliate alleged to have masterminded the attempted bombing of an American jet on Christmas Day, declared its support for the southerners demands for a separate state. The group s leader, Nasser al-Wahayshi, promised to avenge the oppression faced by southerners. Southern Yemen, nestled at the tip of the Arabian Peninsula, edges the strategic Bab el-Mandab strait, one of the world s oil shipping choke points. It is also a gateway to Somalia, where the Islamist militant movement al-Shabab, which has ties to al-Qaeda, is fighting the US-backed Somali transitional government. Al-Qaeda militants have thrived in Yemen s southern and southeastern provinces. They are shielded by tribal alliances and codes in religiously conservative communities that do not tolerate outside interference, even from the government. A shared dislike of central authority and US policies in the Middle East has strengthened al-Qaeda s bonds with southern tribesmen. The resentment persists in Aden, where al-Qaeda militants bombed the USS Colein 2000, killing 17 American sailors. Inside the dented white car, Kassim sat with another secessionist leader Nasser Atawil. Now and then, they looked nervously out the window, concerned that Yemeni intelligence agents might overhear their conversation with a journalist. They complained that the names of streets had been changed to northern ones. They said northerners had taken buildings, farms and land from southerners. Northerners, they contended, gain entry into better universities and have better careers. Atawil, a retired army general, said his pension was half what his northern counterparts receive. What the government is doing will make al-Qaeda stronger here, he said. In another corner of Aden, the managing editor of Al Ayyam, the largest and most influential daily in the south, said the government has banned his paper for sympathising with the Southern Movement s cause. We are virtually under house arrest, Hani Bashraheel said. On Monday, journalists staged a sit-in to protest at the shutdown. But clashes erupted between police and the paper s armed guards; a policeman and a guard were killed. On Wednesday, police arrested Hani and his father, Hisham Bashraheel, the paper s editor. According to Human Rights Watch, Yemeni forces opened fire on unarmed protesters six times in 2008 and 2009, killing at least 11 and wounding dozens. On Thursday, a senior Yemeni official denied the government was using excessive force and instead said some secessionists had targeted government forces. They claim they are a movement, but they are outlaws, said Rashad al-Alimi, deputy prime minister for security and defence. With continuing government repression, concern is growing that violence could increase especially as the US-backed war on al-Qaeda unfolds in the south. Since July, there have been more reports of protesters bringing weapons to rallies, according to Human Rights Watch. In November, al-Qaeda militants killed three senior security officials and four escorts in the southern province of Hadhramaut. The recent alliance between a powerful tribal leader and former jihadist, Tariq al-Fadhli, and the Southern Movement also has escalated tensions. Fadhli, who is from the south, fought against the Soviets in Afghanistan. Then Saleh sent him to fight against the former Marxist forces in the south during the civil war. But in April, Fadhli broke ties with Saleh, injecting new momentum into the Southern Movement. Since then, protests against the government have intensified. The government has accused Fadhli and the Southern Movement of colluding with al-Qaeda. They have denied this and accuse Saleh of using the spectre of al-Qaeda to elicit support from the US and its Middle East allies. Still, some rights activists say an alliance is forming between some secessionists, Fadhli and al-Qaeda. Christoph Wilcke, a Human Rights Watch researcher for Yemen, said at least one al-Qaeda leader had joined Fadhli and the Southern Movement. He was killed in a US-backed Yemeni airstrike last month, Wilcke said. Any melding of the Southern Movement and al-Qaeda is far from established, he said. But that could change if the US-backed war deepens without Washington pressuring Saleh to stop repression in the south. Angry southerners, meanwhile, have accused the government and the US of killing a few dozen civilians in an airstrike last month. Yemeni officials say they killed militants and their relatives. It will change the sympathies if they have a common enemy in the United States, Wilcke said. Al-Qaeda will become more of an ally. This is exactly what we don t want to get into.

===Diplomacy advantage=== 

We have to win in Afghanistan to solve diplomacy, plan makes it worse, their author
Fernholz, 10 – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress
The stakes are high in Afghanistan not only on the merits but because success buys him the credibility to advance other foreign-policy initiatives that don't tend to go over well with domestic audiences: closing Guantánamo Bay, engaging Iran, pressuring Israel toward peace, reaching out to the Muslim community, and reducing nuclear weapons in America and the world. Even given the daunting odds, it is still possible that a new mode of foreign policy -- one that is executed by civilians and soldiers equally -- could spring from the crucible of Afghanistan.
The other scenario, though, is that using the military in Afghanistan as the central means of fighting terrorism leaves reform of law enforcement and intelligence out in the cold, hinders the transformation of the civilian agencies, and prevents Obama from spending resources on other projects. A failure in Afghanistan is a failure to change the way this country approaches foreign policy. Worse, if the next two years don't show an Afghan government that can handle basic governing and security, then all of Obama's ideas will be wrapped in that failure, hindering his ability to execute any of his other initiatives. 

Warming tipping points inevitable – too late
NPR 9 (1/26, Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says, All Things Considered, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)
Climate change is essentially irreversible, according to a sobering new scientific study.
As carbon dioxide emissions continue to rise, the world will experience more and more long-term environmental disruption. The damage will persist even when, and if, emissions are brought under control, says study author Susan Solomon, who is among the world's top climate scientists.
"We're used to thinking about pollution problems as things that we can fix," Solomon says. "Smog, we just cut back and everything will be better later. Or haze, you know, it'll go away pretty quickly."
That's the case for some of the gases that contribute to climate change, such as methane and nitrous oxide. But as Solomon and colleagues suggest in a new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, it is not true for the most abundant greenhouse gas: carbon dioxide. Turning off the carbon dioxide emissions won't stop global warming.
"People have imagined that if we stopped emitting carbon dioxide that the climate would go back to normal in 100 years or 200 years. What we're showing here is that's not right. It's essentially an irreversible change that will last for more than a thousand years," Solomon says.
This is because the oceans are currently soaking up a lot of the planet's excess heat — and a lot of the carbon dioxide put into the air. The carbon dioxide and heat will eventually start coming out of the ocean. And that will take place for many hundreds of years.
Solomon is a scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Her new study looked at the consequences of this long-term effect in terms of sea level rise and drought. 

Climate impacts are overyhyped, nothing will happen for 300 years and even then it won’t be that bad, tech solves in the meantime
Lomborg 8 – Director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center and adjunct professor at the Copenhagen Business School, Bjorn, “Warming warnings get overheated”, The Guardian, 8/15,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/15/carbonemissions.climatechange]]
These alarmist predictions are becoming quite bizarre, and could be dismissed as sociological oddities, if it weren’t for the fact that they get such big play in the media. Oliver Tickell, for instance, writes that a global warming causing a 4C temperature increase by the end of the century would be a “catastrophe” and the beginning of the “extinction” of the human race. This is simply silly. His evidence? That 4C would mean that all the ice on the planet would melt, bringing the long-term sea level rise to 70-80m, flooding everything we hold dear, seeing billions of people die. Clearly, Tickell has maxed out the campaigners’ scare potential (because there is no more ice to melt, this is the scariest he could ever conjure). But he is wrong. Let us just remember that the UN climate panel, the IPCC, expects a temperature rise by the end of the century between 1.8 and 6.0C. Within this range, the IPCC predicts that, by the end of the century, sea levels will rise 18-59 centimetres – Tickell is simply exaggerating by a factor of up to 400. Tickell will undoubtedly claim that he was talking about what could happen many, many millennia from now. But this is disingenuous. First, the 4C temperature rise is predicted on a century scale – this is what we talk about and can plan for. Second, although sea-level rise will continue for many centuries to come, the models unanimously show that Greenland’s ice shelf will be reduced, but Antarctic ice will increase even more (because of increased precipitation in Antarctica) for the next three centuries. What will happen beyond that clearly depends much more on emissions in future centuries. Given that CO2 stays in the atmosphere about a century, what happens with the temperature, say, six centuries from now mainly depends on emissions five centuries from now (where it seems unlikely non-carbon emitting technology such as solar panels will not have become economically competitive). Third, Tickell tells us how the 80m sea-level rise would wipe out all the world’s coastal infrastructure and much of the world’s farmland – “undoubtedly” causing billions to die. But to cause billions to die, it would require the surge to occur within a single human lifespan. This sort of scare tactic is insidiously wrong and misleading, mimicking a firebrand preacher who claims the earth is coming to an end and we need to repent. While it is probably true that the sun will burn up the earth in 4-5bn years’ time, it does give a slightly different perspective on the need for immediate repenting. Tickell’s claim that 4C will be the beginning of our extinction is again many times beyond wrong and misleading, and, of course, made with no data to back it up. Let us just take a look at the realistic impact of such a 4C temperature rise. For the Copenhagen Consensus, one of the lead economists of the IPCC, Professor Gary Yohe, did a survey of all the problems and all the benefits accruing from a temperature rise over this century of about approximately 4C. And yes, there will, of course, also be benefits: as temperatures rise, more people will die from heat, but fewer from cold; agricultural yields will decline in the tropics, but increase in the temperate zones, etc. The model evaluates the impacts on agriculture, forestry, energy, water, unmanaged ecosystems, coastal zones, heat and cold deaths and disease. The bottom line is that benefits from global warming right now outweigh the costs (the benefit is about 0.25% of global GDP). Global warming will continue to be a net benefit until about 2070, when the damages will begin to outweigh the benefits, reaching a total damage cost equivalent to about 3.5% of GDP by 2300. This is simply not the end of humanity. If anything, global warming is a net benefit now; and even in three centuries, it will not be a challenge to our civilisation. Further, the IPCC expects the average person on earth to be 1,700% richer by the end of this century.

No warming and no impact
Taylor 09 (James, Senior Fellow Env. Policy @ Heartland Institute, Naples Daily News, “Guest Commentary: Global warming”, http://www.naplesnews.com/news/2009/jan/03/guest-commentary-global-warming/)
In a pair of recent columns claiming humans are causing a global-warming crisis, Ben Bova disparages mere “assertions” while saying people need to rely on “observable, measurable facts.” While Bova’s concern about Earth’s climate is admirable, he should follow his own advice regarding assertions versus facts. Bova asserts Earth has a “rising fever.” Yet the fact is that global temperatures are unusually cool. For most of the past 10,000 years temperatures have been 1.0 to 3.0 degrees Celsius warmer than they are today. The 0.6 degree rise in temperatures during the 20th century occurred from the baseline of the little ice age, which saw the coldest global temperatures during the past 10,000 years. Earth has a “rising fever” only if we pretend the little ice age was “normal” and ignore Earth’s long-term temperature facts. Bova asserts “the loss of sea ice in the Arctic is threatening the survival of polar bears.” Yet the fact is that polar bear numbers have doubled since the 1980s. Moreover, Antarctic sea ice is growing and has been setting records for much of the past year. If “global” warming is causing receding polar ice, then why is Antarctic sea ice setting growth records? Bova asserts “measurements ... show that the rise in global temperatures matches quite closely the increase in carbon dioxide.” Yet the fact is that solar scientists at Harvard and other leading universities have published research in the world’s leading scientific journals showing that temperatures match solar output much more closely than carbon dioxide, even in the 20th century. Bova asserts that as a result of global warming “much of our crop land turns to desert.” Yet, the fact is that global precipitation and global soil moisture have increased during the 20th century, and the Sahara Desert and other deserts around the world are in retreat. Bova asserts we run the risk of a breaching a “tipping point” or a “greenhouse cliff where the global climate shifts too rapidly for us to protect ourselves from its drastic effects.” Yet, the fact is that in a recent survey of more than 500 climate scientists from around the world, less than half agreed that “assuming climate change will occur, it will occur so suddenly that a lack of preparation could result in devastation of some areas of the world.” Bova asserts that in California’s Yosemite National Park warmer temperatures are allowing mice and pine trees to live at higher altitudes than a century ago. Yet, the fact is that fossilized trees exist at altitudes above the current California tree line, showing that temperatures were significantly warmer 1,000 years ago than today. Plant and animal species are migrating to higher elevations only in comparison to the abnormally cold temperatures of the little ice age that ended just over a century ago. For most of the past 10,000 years, warmer temperatures enabled mice and trees to live at altitudes significantly higher than is possible today. Global-warming activism is long on unsubstantiated assertions and short on objective facts. Only by comparing today’s temperatures to the abnormal cold of the little ice are — and by completely ignoring the warmer temperatures that predominated during most of the past 10,000 years — can global-warming activists paint a picture of a planet suffering a global warming crisis. Moreover, sound science has thrown cold water on each and every one of the alleged global-warming crises, such as endangered polar bears, melting ice caps, etc., alleged to result from global warming.

==Beacon neg== 

===Framework=== 
Here’s evidence that the resolution is the key stasis point—their interpretation is arbitrary
O’Donnell 2004 – PhD, director of debate at Mary Washington (Tim, WFU Debaters Research Guide, “Blue helmet blues”, ed. Bauschard & Lacy, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/DRGArtiarticlesIndex.htm)
The answer, I believe, resides … the exchange a directed focus.

And, this presumptively outweighs
Shively 2000 – political science professor at Texas A&M (Ruth, Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)
The requirements given thus far are primarily … rests on some basic agreement or harmony.

Social progress—their project fails without concrete policy guiding it
Feaver 2001 – assistant professor of political science at Duke (Peter, “Twenty-first century weapons proliferation”, p. 178)
At the same time, virtually all … proliferation field already does so.

The impact is war
Hanson 2007 (Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer)
It’s no surprise that civilian Americans …have a moral obligation to stop them.

And, their appeal to social location just flips the error and polarizes people that can’t identify with their experiences – they replicate expertism
Scott, 92 – professor of sociology at Princeton (Joan, “Multiculturalism and the Politics of Identity,” The Identity in Question (Summer, 1992), pp. 12-19, JSTOR)
There is nothing wrong…prerequisites for inclusion in any group.

They conflate exclusion with irrelevance
Heinrichs ’98 (Terry, Associate Prof. Pol. Sci. – York U., Alberta Law Review, “Censorship as Free Speech! Free Expression Values and the Logic of Silencing in R. v. Keegstra”, 36 Alta. L. Rev. 835, L/N)
125 The silencing argument, thirdly… is that really Wheel of Fortune's fault?226

They don’t solve exclusion
Mouffe 1999, Professor of Political Theory at the University of Westminster, 1999 (Chantall, Race, Rhetoric, and the Postcolonial, pages 171-172)
First, we should realize that there are different possible … always based on a form of exclusion.

Making debate a site for activism encourages dangerous elite infiltration and politicizes key training process
Coverstone, 95 – masters in communication from Wake Forest and longtime debate coach
(Alan, “An Inward Glance; A Response to Mitchell’s Outward Activist Turn,” http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Coverstone1995China.htm)
Second, Mitchell's argument underestimates …positive potential of involvement in debate.

No ground makes the aff presumptively false
Lasch ’95 (Christopher, Social Critic and Author, “The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy”, p. 170-171)
THE ROLE OF the press… is something wrong with our own.

Common ground builds bridges to consensus—their critique of debate demonizes a target and then forces us to defend that target, reversing the potential for progress
Levasseur and Carlin 01 (David G. Levasseur is Assistant Professor of Communication Studies at West Chester University in West Chester, Pennsylvania. Diana B. Carlin is Professor of Communication Studies and Dean of the Graduate School and International Programs at the University of Kansas, “Egocentric Argument and the Public Sphere: Citizen Deliberations on Public Policy and Policymakers”, Rhetoric & Public Affairs 4.3 (2001) 407-43, Muse, 2001)
Citizens in our discussion groups frequently … standard than a common-good standard.

Malcom X proves the value of switch-side debate—it produces more effective advocacy.
Branham, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College 1995 (Robert, “I Was Gone on Debating’: Malcom X’s Prison Debates and Public confrontation”, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter, Volume 31, Number 3, page 117)
As Malcolm X sought new … four or five practice sessions.

Switch side is the only effective training for activism
Coverstone, 05 – masters in communication from Wake Forest and longtime debate coach
(Alan H., “Acting on Activism: Realizing the Vision of Debate with Pro-social Impact,” Paper presented at the National Communication Association Annual Conference, 11/17/05)
Purely Preparatory Pedagogy?
Many have argued the value … of high-level contest debating.

Turn—claiming this round is key to activism crushes their project
Atchison and Panetta, 09 – Director of Debate at Trinity University and Director of Debate at the University of Georgia
(Jarrod, and Edward, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed., 2009, p. 317-334)
Debates as Sites of Community Change
The debate community has become more self-reflexive … consensus, and coalition building.

Individual debate rounds don’t reshape the community
Atchison and Panetta, 09 – Director of Debate at Trinity University and Director of Debate at the University of Georgia
(Jarrod, and Edward, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed., 2009, p. 317-334)
The first problem that we isolate is the … for addressing important problems.

We repudiate white supremacy even if our social location is suspect
Monahan 8 - Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Marquette University, (Michael, "Racial Justice and the Politics of Purity," paper presented at the Central APA meeting on April 18, 2008, [[http://www.temple.edu/isrst/Events/documents/MichaelMonahanUpdated.doc%29|www.temple.edu/isrst/Events/documents/MichaelMonahanUpdated.doc)]]
In his essay “Rehabilitate Racial Whiteness?” (Outlaw 2004) Outlaw focuses … of the creolized subject.

Their methodology is bad. Prioritizing identity rather than content reduces debate to naked power-politics based on gaming cultural backgrounds.
Post ’91 (Robert, Prof. Law – UC Berkeley, William & Mary Law Review, “Free Speech and Religious, Racial, and Sexual Harassment: Racist Speech, Democracy, and the First Amendment”, 32 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 267, Winter, L/N)
The third argument for restraining racist … restraints on public discourse.

===Narcissism K=== 

Their refusal to defend traditional political consequences is political quietism. Debate is a form of cultural politics useful when it orients us toward reform. Refusing to take state-based politics seriously abandons it, making fascism inevitable
Giroux, 04 (Henry, professor of English and cultural studies at McMaster University in Canada, Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, Numbers 3 & 4, 2004, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism:
making the political more pedagogical”, http://www.wwwords.co.uk/pdf/viewpdf.asp?j=pfie&vol=2&issue=3&year=2004&article=5_Giroux_PFIE_2_3-4_web&id=170.140.58.157)
Neo-liberalism has become one of the most … possibility of democracy itself.

The 1ac is not a revolution, it’s politically disconnection that touches on societal militarism. Only our focus on operational military policy maintains civilian control and achieves progress
Kagan 2006 (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600)
Far from being simply an academic …attention paid to this problem to date.

Cultural aesthetics like hip hop distract change—they’re the consolation prize in the game of politics while the bureaucratic elites take over
Gitlin, 97 (Todd, professor of journalism and sociology at Columbia, “The anti-political populism of cultural studies,” Dissent, Spring, proquest)
From the late 1960s onward, as I … not think that our academic work is already that.

Change requires negotiating politics and appealing to the public—radical proposals make themselves irrelevant. The aff is a protest that ignores political context—this is alienating, not liberating.
Isaac, 02 (Jeffrey, Professor of Political Science and director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life at Indiana University, Dissent, “Ends, Means, and Politics”, Spring, ebsco)
Politics is about ends and means… is viewed as aggression or militarism.

The impact is extinction, refusing traditional politics abandons social responsibility and makes crises inevitable
Boggs, 1997 (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late
twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)
The decline of the public sphere in late …collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75

Our alternative is a vision of debate that connects argument to instrumental politics. We know fiat isn’t real but a connection to political advocacy is key to engaging the public. Use the ballot to reject their insular approach that forgoes meaningful political advocacy.
Giroux, 04 (Henry, professor of English and cultural studies at McMaster University in Canada, Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, Numbers 3 & 4, 2004, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism:
making the political more pedagogical”, http://www.wwwords.co.uk/pdf/viewpdf.asp?j=pfie&vol=2&issue=3&year=2004&article=5_Giroux_PFIE_2_3-4_web&id=170.140.58.157)
By linking education to the project of an … protests and collective resistance.

Our grounding critical theory in specific political reforms keeps it from devolving into narcissism, incapable of challenging power structures
Giroux, 04 (Henry, professor of English and cultural studies at McMaster University in Canada, Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, Numbers 3 & 4, 2004, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism:
making the political more pedagogical”, http://www.wwwords.co.uk/pdf/viewpdf.asp?j=pfie&vol=2&issue=3&year=2004&article=5_Giroux_PFIE_2_3-4_web&id=170.140.58.157)
Against the neo-liberal attack on all things … self-criticism never reaches the limits of justice.

The aff vilifies a crucial policy focus—their impacts are a simplistic substitute for military understanding
Kagan 2006 (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600)
Attentive readers might well wonder … their feelings about the study of war.

==Korea neg== 

===1nc Deterrence DA=== 

US credibility is on the line – the US and South Korea just had a meeting formalizing the commitment to not do the plan a few days ago to send a credible signal to North Korea
Sung-Ki, 10/8/10 (Jung, Defense News, “U.S. Reaffirms Extended Deterrence for S. Korea,” [[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4871688&c=POL&s=TOP]])

U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates pledged that the United States would further strengthen extended deterrence for South Korea and urged North Korea to stop any attempt to destabilize the security of the Korean Peninsula.
Gates held the Security Consultative Meeting (SCM) Oct. 8 with his South Korean counterpart Kim Tae-young in Washington, D.C., to assess the two countries' joint defense posture.
The meeting was the first of its kind since the deadly sinking of ROK's Cheonan in the disputed western waters of the peninsula in March. A Seoul-led multinational team of investigators determined in May that the ship was torpedoed by a North Korean submarine, but Pyongyang has denied any involvement in the incident that killed 46 sailors.
The meeting also was held amid a clear sign of the North's father-to-son power transfer, which experts say could cause instability in the communist regime.
"Secretary Gates reaffirmed the continued U.S. commitment to provide and strengthen extended deterrence for the ROK, using the full range of military capabilities, to include the U.S. nuclear umbrella, conventional strike, and missile defense capabilities," said the joint communiqué issued at the end of the annual meeting of defense chiefs from the two countries. "Moreover, the Secretary and the Minister agreed to institutionalize an Extended Deterrence Policy Committee, which will serve as a cooperation mechanism to enhance the effectiveness of extended deterrence."
The two defense chiefs reaffirmed that any North Korean aggression and provocation will not be tolerated and the United States and South Korea will work shoulder to shoulder to demonstrate their combined resolve, the communiqué said, adding both nations will not accept North Korea as a nuclear weapon state.
At a joint press conference at the Pentagon, Gates said, "Our commitment to South Korea's security is steadfast, and our military alliance has never been stronger. North Korea's nuclear and conventional weapons threat continues to be the focal point of our alliance's deterrent and defense posture. We are committed to providing extended deterrence."
He continued, "In the wake of the Cheonan incident, the close cooperation across the whole of our two governments sends a clear message to North Korea that its provocation and aggression will not be tolerated."
Gates and Kim agreed to draw up a new joint operational plan with a focus to deter increasing threats by North Korea's irregular and asymmetrical warfare tactics. The current OPLAN 5027 is mainly focused on measures to deter North Korean aggression in the case of a full-scale war.

This meeting explicitly codified the extension of US troops
Chan-ho, 10/9/10 (Kang, The Joong Ang Daily, “Korea, U.S. form group to deter North’s nukes,” [[http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2926955]])
Defense Minister Kim and Defense Secretary Gates agreed that North Korea should be held responsible for the sinking of the South Korean warship, Cheonan.
They also agreed that the joint alliance should strengthen its defense against North Korea by confirming the current status of U.S. troops in the country as well as possibly extending active service periods for U.S. troops stationed here.

Withdrawal turns case and causes nuclear war—this includes allied prolif, Northern aggression, cooperation breakdowns, arms races, miscalc and pre-emption—no defense.
Richardson, 2006 [Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]
Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of US Forces Korea (USFK) have been around for decades. After years of a South Korean administration generally hostile to US regional objectives and priorities, perhaps the rumors are finally becoming a reality. That would be a tragedy for both sides. If the US were to leave Korea, how would US influence in the region be altered? How would Korea's relationships with China and Japan change? What about the strengthening US-Japan alliance? What if North Korea collapsed? These questions have largely escaped critical consideration in the current debate. Despite President Roh Moo-hyun's stunning obliviousness to political and security realities, South Korea would be particularly vulnerable without USFK, or even with a token force left in place. For its part, the US cannot realistically expect to maintain or improve its ability to exert regional influence by leaving Korea. Like US Forces Japan (USFJ), America's Korean contingent helps prevent conflict by acting as a strong deterrent for any nation that might consider military actions or threats, at the same time moderating the responses of the host nation in tense situations. Obviously, the original purpose of the US-South Korea alliance was to counter the North Korean threat. However, as that threat has waned, a more important, diplomatically incorrect mission has evolved in addition to deterring North Korea: ensuring stability among China, Japan and Korea. The North Korean threat is nonetheless the reason for the majority of South Korea's defenses, even if Seoul won't say so in defense white papers. No conventional military calculus suggests the possibility of a North Korean victory in a second Korean War, but a weaker South Korean military could cause Pyongyang to miscalculate. South Korea's defenses must remain strong. Regional tensions, but stability Even with USFK in Korea, issues from the region's long and often confrontational history cause tensions to flare. Chinese claims that Koguryo, an ancient ethnically Korean kingdom whose territories extended into present-day China, was in fact a Chinese kingdom have raised Korean hackles on several occasions. The move is viewed as the possible groundwork for justifying a Chinese invasion of the northern half of the peninsula, perhaps to "help" a North Korea on the verge of implosion, or after collapse. China's plans to register Mount Baekdu (Changbai in Chinese) as a Chinese historical site with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Geopark list was also viewed as a possible prelude to claiming North Korean territory. The mountain, sacred to both sides, straddles the border. A 1962 agreement between the two countries split ownership of the mountain. This view is bolstered by the fact that China prefers to retain border buffer zones and would not relish having a reunified Korea, potentially with US forces just across the Yalu River. South Korea could not prevent China from sending troops into North Korea, and the US likely would not risk war with China over North Korea. Japan's colonial domination of Korea from 1910 to 1945 has left a deep and bitter resentment in both Koreas that is apt to provoke emotional and drastic responses. One high-profile manifestation of this is the decades-long dispute over the ownership of some relatively insignificant islets in the waters between the peninsula and the archipelago, the Liancourt Rocks. Known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, South Korea has stationed a Coast Guard contingent on the island since 1954 to enforce its claim. Both nations claim the area as a part of their exclusive economic zones (EEZs). In 2005 South Korea scrambled fighters to intercept a civilian Japanese Cessna aircraft nearing Dokdo airspace. When Japan announced plans to conduct a hydrographic survey of the area, South Korea made vague threats alluding to possible military action against the research vessels. Japan backed down. Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's numerous visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's war dead including some convicted war criminals, have raised diplomatic tensions with both South Korea and China on several occasions, including a temporary recall of South Korea's ambassador in Japan. Ripe for an arms race South Korea wants to be the "hub" of something in East Asia, and it may finally have its chance, thanks to the Roh administration. The current US-South Korea situation is a case of "be careful of what you ask for because you might get it". Even so, the psychological impact on South Korea of a significant USFK departure likely would not be immediate but should not be underestimated. A massive reduction of US troop levels and capabilities could have the same effect as a complete withdrawal on Seoul's planning processes. It might begin with regretful concern, but could quickly become panic. At this point it should be noted that even if the USFK withdraws from Korea, some sort of collaborative security agreement will remain in place. However, South Korea's perception of America's commitment to security on the peninsula is the decisive factor in how it will react to real and perceived threats. What are now relatively minor disagreements with Japan and China would take on a more serious dimension. Without USFK, South Korea would need to vastly increase its defense budget to make up for functions long taken for granted. With American forces on its soil as a safety net, South Korea didn't have to be overly concerned with being attacked or invaded. Many Koreans would perceive that era over. Another factor is the closer US-Japan security partnership, which causes both China and South Korea concern. Some in the South Korean defense sector are undoubtedly jealous of the relationship Japan enjoys with the US. Japan would also need to take into consideration a South Korea without the moderating influence of USFK, although the role of USFJ in Japan would reduce much concern. In such an environment it's not unthinkable that a few minor skirmishes could occur, between South Korean and Japanese navel vessels in the vicinity of Dokdo, for example. This would be the slow start of a regional arms race, with Korea and Japan joining China's ongoing buildup. A reunified Korea could go nuclear North Korea is the wildcard. If in the next few years reunification were to occur - through a North Korean collapse, the death of Kim Jong-il, or a possible but unlikely mutual agreement - South Korea would suddenly find itself straddled with the enormous cost of integrating North Korea. These costs would dwarf the already massive increase South Korea would have been undertaking in defense spending, something it would clearly be unprepared and unable to accomplish while maintaining its defense investment. A Korea faced with an economic dilemma of such magnitude would find maintaining its conventional military forces at current levels impossible. At the same time, it would feel more vulnerable than ever, even with US security assurances. For a nation paranoid about the possibility of outside influence or military intervention, strapped for cash, and obsessed about its position in the international hierarchy, the obvious route might be to either incorporate North Korean nuclear devices (if they actually exist), or build their own, something South Korean technicians could easily accomplish. North Korea, after all, has set the example for economically challenged nations looking for the ultimate in deterrence. One might argue that clear and firm US security guarantees for a reunified Korea would be able to dissuade any government from choosing the nuclear option. If making decisions based purely on logic the answer would be probably yes. Unfortunately, the recent Korean leadership has established a record of being motivated more by emotional and nationalistic factors than logical or realistic ones. Antics over Dokdo and the Yasukuni Shrine and alienating the US serve as examples. But the continuation of the "Sunshine Policy" tops those. Instead of admitting they've been sold a dead horse, the Roh administration continued riding the rotting and bloated beast known as the Sunshine Policy, until all that are left today are a pile of bones, a bit of dried skin, and a few tufts of dirty hair. Roh, however, is still in the saddle, if not as firmly after North Korea's recent missile tests. Japan must then consider its options in countering an openly nuclear, reunified Korea without USFK. Already building momentum to change its constitution to clarify its military, it's not inconceivable that Japan would ultimately consider going nuclear to deter Korea. As in South Korea, there is no technological barrier preventing Japan from building nuclear weapons. While the details of the race and escalation of tensions can vary in any number of ways and are not inevitable, that an arms race would occur is probable. Only the perception of threat and vulnerability need be present for this to occur. East Asia could become a nuclear powder keg ready to explode over something as childish as the Dokdo/Takeshima dispute between Korea and Japan, a Diaoyu/Senkakus dispute between China and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. The arms race need not occur One could argue that the US would be able to step in and moderate things before such an escalation could occur. Considering the recent US record on influencing either North or South Korea, it is perhaps unwise to count on it being able to do so at some crucial point in the future. One could also argue that the US need not be involved in a future East Asian war. Like assuming there is no need for USFK since North Korea is considered less of a threat to Seoul, that is wishful thinking. The US has too many political and diplomatic ties, aside from alliance obligations, to ignore such a war. For American policymakers, the notion that a withdrawal is a deserved payback for the rampant anti-Americanism in South Korea, or that the few billion we spend on defense there is a catastrophic waste, need to be discarded. The potential cost of a war would be far greater in both American lives and in dollars, the benefits of continued peace immeasurable. Vastly reducing or withdrawing USFK can only harm US security, it cannot help it. USFK has helped maintain peace and allowed the US to project influence in the region for the past six decades; removing that presence would be foolish and difficult to replicate once done. It is also important to keep in mind that the next presidential election will likely result in a less anti-American administration. South Korean policymakers and citizens alike need to come to terms with the fact that Korea will probably never be a powerful nation, but because of its location it will always be important in the geopolitical sense. Because of this, Korea can never take the middle ground or play a "balancing" role; Korea must choose sides. Finally, the reality that both American and South Korean policymakers need to come to terms with is that USFK deterring a second North Korean invasion has become a secondary mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.

And, they prompt northern aggression
Huessy 3 (Peter, Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states, 8/13, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560)

It may be wishful thinking, but I believe China has the ability to help shape the future in the region in a positive way. For the U.S. to withdraw from the ROK, as proposed by Carpenter, might very well initiate not only another Korean War but also possibly another World War. When I lived in Seoul and attended Yonsei University in 1969-70, my Korean father and Yonsei professor, Hahm Pyong Choon, later to become Ambassador to the United States and national security adviser to the President of the Republic of Korea, told me there were always those who sought to purchase liberty and freedom on the cheap. At an embassy reception in Washington, he reminded me what he had told me in class: “Those on the left think you are imperialists; those on the right do not want to spend the money”. In 1985, the communists planted bombs in Burma where the ROK cabinet was meeting. Professor Hahm was killed by the very same North Korean communists whom wish to see the withdrawal of American forces from the region. To save a few dollars, however unintentionally, we might end up the North Korean army in downtown Seoul. Certainly, armed with nuclear weapons, the North will be difficult at best to deter from such an attack. To the people of the Republic of Korea: America will not leave, we will not run, we will not forget the extraordinary sacrifices we both have made to secure the freedom of your country and ours. This is the basis for the Bush Administration’s strategy, and with that sufficient reason it should be supported.

They also risk unchecked arms racing and prolif
Wortzel 2k- Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation (8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis)

WASHINGTON - There has been a sea change in the political landscape in Northeast Asia, particularly on the Korean Peninsula. In South Korea, the success of multiparty democracy is changing how the United States interacts with its ally. President Kim Dae Jung must deal with voters who increasingly question the size and duration of the U.S. military presence. The summit between North and South Korea in June increased the calls across the peninsula for the withdrawal of U.S. troops. Meanwhile, popular support for the U.S. presence in Japan is falling. But removing America's military presence from either ally would significantly alter Asia's security landscape, with potentially serious consequences. Regrettably, in the midst of this heightened focus on the U.S. military presence, the Clinton administration has failed to meet this challenge; specifically, it has not worked with America's allies to maintain the effective security architecture that has long protected this volatile and important region. The U.S. should now work closely with political leaders in both Korea and Japan to define a public strategy that explains to the voters of these countries why a U.S. presence is still desirable and necessary. America's primary security interests in the region concern stability in Northeast Asia, an area plagued by war for most of the past century. Since the end of World War II, the U.S. presence in this region has provided the glue for a security arrangement that offered protection to its allies and reassurances that helped avert an arms race by historical enemies or rivals. At the same time, because the U.S. acts as an honest broker with no territorial designs for hegemony, its military presence is perceived as a benign counterbalance to the mistrust that followed recent war experiences in the region. Washington's bilateral relationships with Japan and South Korea ensure that its military, political and economic interests are protected. The extended nuclear deterrence the U.S. offers to its ally and the presence of U.S. forces in Japan permit it to maintain its Peace Constitution, to eschew the development of an offensive military force and to feel secure in a nuclear age without an arsenal of nuclear weapons. For South Korea, the presence of U.S. combat forces and equipment created the conditions that have permitted its democracy and market economy to flourish. However, the balance of official and public opinion in Northeast Asia is shifting, as the recent summit between North and South Korea demonstrates. The willingness of the U.S. to reward Pyongyang for small steps with economic incentives demonstrates that shift as well. If there are marked changes in behavior and policy in North Korea, not just rhetoric and promises, public pressure in South Korea and Japan to change the nature of the U.S. military presence in the region would naturally increase. Officials in Washington, Seoul and Tokyo should seriously consider the future when responding to these calls. In Europe, because of mutual insecurity (and mistrust) and a desire to avoid an arms race, NATO members welcomed the continued U.S. presence after the fall of the Soviet Union and the reunification of Germany. For the same reasons, it makes good sense to continue to keep a forward-based U.S. presence in Northeast Asia. Should the U.S. isolate itself and withdraw militarily from Asia, or be asked to withdraw by its allies, the consequences - both for the stability of the region and for U.S. national security interests - would be disastrous. A robust U.S. military presence in Asia creates the conditions for economic and strategic stability. If the populations of Japan or South Korea convince their elected governments that the U.S. should be asked to leave, U.S. troops will go - as they did in Thailand and the Philippines. There are consequences that may be unforeseen, however; remember that a few years after the U.S. was asked to withdraw from Thailand, several tens of thousands of Vietnamese troops were poised on the Thai border in Cambodia. And not long after the U.S. withdrew its forces from the Philippines, China seized Mischief Reef and established an outpost there. The absence of the U.S. in this region would create a major void in the strategic architecture of the Asia-Pacific that would lead to a serious arms race (among China, Korea, Japan and the Southeast Asian nations), competition for control of the Korean Peninsula, and competition for control of sea and air lanes of communication in the Western Pacific, and perhaps even fuel a nuclear weapons race. After all, if U.S. air, sea and land forces are no longer present in South Korea and Japan, extended deterrence and the assurance of security disappear as well.

Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2000 – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)

The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly than anywhere else in the world. If a nuclear breakout takes place in Asia, then the international arms control agreements that have been painstakingly negotiated over the past 40 years will crumble. Moreover, the United States could find itself embroiled in its fourth war on the Asian continent in six decades--a costly rebuke to those who seek the safety of Fortress America by hiding behind national missile defenses. Consider what is already happening: North Korea continues to play guessing games with its nuclear and missile programs; South Korea wants its own missiles to match Pyongyang's; India and Pakistan shoot across borders while running a slow-motion nuclear arms race; China modernizes its nuclear arsenal amid tensions with Taiwan and the United States; Japan's vice defense minister is forced to resign after extolling the benefits of nuclear weapons; and Russia--whose Far East nuclear deployments alone make it the largest Asian nuclear power--struggles to maintain territorial coherence. Five of these states have nuclear weapons; the others are capable of constructing them. Like neutrons firing from a split atom, one nation's actions can trigger reactions throughout the region, which in turn, stimulate additional actions. These nations form an interlocking Asian nuclear reaction chain that vibrates dangerously with each new development. If the frequency and intensity of this reaction cycle increase, critical decisions taken by any one of these governments could cascade into the second great wave of nuclear-weapon proliferation, bringing regional and global economic and political instability and, perhaps, the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.

The plan ends the American hierarchy in Asia—triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war
Goh, 08 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective certainty about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been determined by U.S. assurances, self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the perceptions and confidence of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order.
4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order
Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the United States. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability.
Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape.
First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to stabilize its global leadership. Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the United States has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states that support American preponderance.
Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the United States extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from periods of strategic uncertainty and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the United States dominance directly.
The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference toward the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China.
India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function.
Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006).
Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach.
Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing ways. Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions.
5. Conclusion
To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the United States is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era.
However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined?
The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the United States' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt, which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse.

===2nc Deterrence DA=== 

Turns cooperation
Ryoo, 04 (Winter 2004, Jae-Kap Ryoo, Kyonggi University, “U.S.-Korea Security Alliance in Transition: A ROK Perspective,” International Journal of Korean Studies, Fall/Winter 2004, Vol. IIX, No. 1)

Within this framework combining bilateralism and multilateralism, the ROK-U.S. alliance system can be re-adjusted and re-defined to maintain in the near future regional peace and stability. To achieve this goal, the United States should re-adjust and re-define the strategic role of U.S. forces in Korea, to act not only from the perspective of the Korean peninsula but also from the broader framework of maintaining the geopolitical equilibrium, or balance of power, in Northeast Asia.78 From the Chinese perspective, the ROK-U.S. alliance is a stabilizing force that restrains South Korea against the North and reassures Japan as well.79 If the primary goal of the U.S. strategy in Northeast Asia is to achieve regional stability and security, Washington must strengthen and consolidate its bilateral alliances with South Korea and Japan, so that North Korean threats can be deterred and the regional peace maintained. The U.S. military presence in South Korea is therefore closely associated with American strategy for Northeast Asia. Even after the realization of peaceful coexistence between the two Koreas and eventual national unification, U.S. forces should continue to maintain themselves on the peninsula as a deterrent to the potential regional hegemony of China or Japan, and as an effective apparatus for encouraging cooperative efforts to resolve regional issues. This will certainly benefit Korea.80
Today the U.S. military presence in both South Korea and Japan plays an important role in dampening the potential for tensions arising from regional armed competition. 81 The strongest mechanism to achieve the ultimate goal of more permanent regional peace is certainly to institutionalize a more comprehensive regional collective security organization (i.e., NEATO). But if it is not possible to achieve this end in the immediate future, it is possible and desirable to expand the positive aspects of the bilateral alliance into a broader regional framework. If the bilateral networks based upon the United States’ closer security ties with South Korea and Japan can be “quasi-multilateralized,” it will help induce other countries, including China, to participate more actively in regional, multilateral structures, such as ARF and the Northeast Asia Security Dialogue (NEASED).82 This process of “quasi-multilateralization” of the existing alliance system can be seen as expanding a “virtual alliance” network of U.S. allies. The creation of a “virtual alliance” can be achieved by maintaining the U.S. – Japan alliance, the U.S. – South Korean alliance, and strengthening the bilateral security cooperation between Tokyo and Seoul. Such necessary and achievable steps can contributable to the interests of preserving the long-term peace and stability of the region.83 In creating an inclusive regional security community based on the concept of “cooperative security,” the United States will be exercising its leadership.

Looming conflict is why troops are key
SHARP 2010 (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26)

My first priority as Commander of UNC, CFC, and USFK is to maintain trained, ready, and disciplined combined and joint commands that are prepared to fight and win. This has been the focus of U.S. forces stationed in Korea for more than 50 years and for the CFC since it was established in 1978. Maintaining "fight tonight" readiness is the primary reason U.S. forces are stationed in the ROK, supporting the alliance between the American and Korean people in defense of the ROK. The Alliance stands ready to address the full spectrum of conflict that could emerge with little warning on the Korean Peninsula. This spectrum of conflict ranges from major combat operations under conditions of general war or provocation, to multiple possibilities of destabilizing conditions on the Peninsula, to humanitarian assistance operations, and even the elimination of weapons of mass destruction. Given these varied potential security challenges, it is imperative that our forces maintain the highest possible level of training and readiness.
In order to address the full spectrum of conflict that could emerge on the Korean Peninsula, the Command has developed and constantly refines plans to deter aggression against the ROK, defeat aggression should deterrence fail, and respond to other destabilizing conditions that could affect the ROK. U.S. and ROK military personnel develop and maintain their warfighting skills through tough, realistic training to include theater-level exercises that leverage a variety of facilities and ranges located in the ROK.
The Command conducts two annual exercises: Key Resolve/Foal Eagle and Ulchi Freedom Guardian. Key Resolve, a Command Post Exercise focused on crisis management, trains and sharpens skills on how we will fight today using existing organizational structures where CFC executes command and control over the combined force. Foal Eagle is a large-scale combined field training exercise that includes the strategic deployment of American forces from bases in the U.S. as well as the participation of thousands of ROK troops. Key Resolve and Foal Eagle ensure that CFC remains ready today to decisively defeat any aggression that is directed against the ROK. The second annual exercise - Ulchi Freedom Guardian - is a computer-simulated warfighting exercise that focuses on the development of Alliance command and control structures that will exist after the transition of wartime OPCON of ROK forces in April 2012.
Maintaining "fight tonight" readiness can only occur when training is conducted that prepares forces to address the full spectrum of operations that characterizes today's complex operational environment. It is vital that Command training facilities and events support the full transformation of U.S. military forces stationed in the ROK. The U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps possess adequate training resources in the ROK to maintain unit combat readiness to include the rehearsal of robust amphibious operations. But USFK still faces challenges with respect to the training of air forces located in the ROK. We have made progress with our ROK hosts in scheduling and maximizing use of limited ranges. However, there is still insufficient training range capability and capacity. A continued shortfall in electronic warfare training capability and restrictions placed on precision guided munitions training pose deficiencies that must be addressed. Deployments of U.S. air forces to training events outside the Korean Peninsula mitigate current training shortfalls and ensure the same standard of training and readiness as American combat air forces not located in the ROK. This is not a long-term solution, however, and I continue to work with the ROK government to find a solution to this key training and readiness issue.

Ground forces key
Singh and Il-Young, 03 - senior research fellow at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul and president of the Indo-Korean Policy Forum [2003, Lakhvinder Singh and Il-Young Kim , “Time to Keep Going: The Role and Structure of U.S. Forces in a Unified Korea,” Pacific Focus, Volume 18 Issue 1, Pages 65 – 87, Center for International Studies, Inha University]

Such intelligence capabilities of the U.S. forces would be a key element of deterrence, and would provide the capability to swiftly repel enemy attack with minimal casualties in a unified Korea. In particular, the awareness of Korea's neighbors of such intelligence capabilities would in and of itself, have a substantial deterrent effect.27 The U.S. forces in a unified Korea, equipped with high-tech equipment, would be capable of bringing new forms of warfare in the 21st century28 The ROK armed forces has endeavored to acquire and enhance its intelligence collection and management system during the past ten years. However, considering the probable future economic status of a unified Korea, it would be hard to expect South Korea to keep an independent and complete eye on potential enemies. For example, it costs 1 million US dollars per mission for the U-2 reconnaissance aircraft. Considering the fact that the U.S. operates an overlapping reconnaissance aircraft and surveillance system manned 24 hours a day, the total sum of such an operation is astronomical. These U.S. intelligence forces, thus must constitute the core of U.S. forces in a unified Korea.
In a unified Korea, China and Russia would be the two main countries with which Korea could possibly have a military conflict.29 Both these countries have modem military technology which makes naval and air forces very vulnerable. High-tech sensors in their possession would make it difficult for American naval and air forces to operate because they stand out against the back-ground of air and sea and thus would be easy to locate and destroy. On the other hand, American ground forces, given the mountainous terrain of Korea, are less vulnerable to advanced technology and thus could operate more easily.30 Air and naval forces would have a very limited role to play in any future war in Korea. As the Gulf War should, it was American tanks which destroyed more Iraqi tanks than the allied air forces, even though the terrain and the absence of an opposing air force facilitated the task of allied pilots.31 Any possible future military conflict involving Korea would almost certainly be won or lost on land. Ac­cordingly, infantrymen and tanks must remain an essential component of the American forces in Korea. What's more, dependence on air and naval forces for the protection of Korea would weaken traditional alliances and deterrents as well as American support for the very values and political principles that make other countries respect and trust the United States.32
As has been shown in the recent military conflicts in Europe and South Asia, almost all military contingencies still require the use of ground forces to fight or to deter wars, despite the increasingly excessive use of air or naval force. Thus, even if U.S. air and naval forces remained stationed in Korea, the absence of U.S. ground forces would seriously undermine the deterrent and fighting power of the United States in the region. American soldiers have a stronger deterrent value because they represent the world's only superpower on both a direct and symbolic level. One country fighting another nation, which is helped only by U.S. air and naval forces, may rethink that it can escape a frontal clash with the United States; but no rational aggressor would dream of simultaneously fighting U.S. ground forces while avoiding confrontation with America.33
Though there is no doubt that in this age of supersonic speed, ground forces can be flown or shipped anywhere in the world in a short span of time in case of some military contingency, they do not have the same deterrent effect as the advance deployment of forces in places where the chances of military conflict are high. This can be clearly seen in the context of the Gulf War crisis. Despite the American diplomatic commitment to the region, Saddam Hussein occupied Kuwait. He underestimated the American resolve because of the absence of any U.S. troops in the region. American verbal commitment to the region failed to deter him, and, despite the massive use of high­speed ships and airplanes, it took the U.S. more than 6 months to build up the forces to where they were strong enough to take on and overcome Saddam Hussein's aggressive actions. In case of war on the Korea peninsula, the U.S. might not have that much time available. Given the firepower of bordering countries, it is commonly accepted among military analysts that Seoul would be completely destroyed within the first few hours of a war. Thus the situation on the Korean peninsula is very peculiar and resembles no other situation in the rest of the world. For the protection of Seoul and thus the whole of South Korea, it would be necessary to push the aggressor back in the first few hours of any conflict and not allow him to seriously damage Seoul. To accomplish this, the ability to gather massive ground force within the shortest possible time would be necessary. American air and naval forces alone would not be enough to stop powerful militaries marching towards Seoul. Though South Korean forces are much better equipped than ever before, they may not be able to stop the marching forces from bombing Seoul with artillery and short-range missiles. Only the U.S. forces equipped with state-of-the-art, high-tech weapons, stationed in Seoul in advance, would the have this ability to defend Seoul. Thus any argument for the withdrawal of U.S. ground forces from Korea must take this point into account.

Only credible deterrence empirically prevents North Korea from initiating conflict – negotiations allow North Korea to extract concessions and buy time for a war on its terms
Downs, 99 – former a senior foreign and defence policy adviser for the Republican Policy Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. (Chuck, Over the Line: North Korea's Negotiating Strategy, p. 281)

What does it mean when a nation that appears to be on the verge of collapse invests in threatening military capabilities rather than its people's needs? It means that, contrary to the theory that collapse promotes cooperation, North Korea perceives that impending collapse compels increasingly threatening behavior.
For the United States and South Korea, the negotiations under way with North Korea-the four-party talks-have been motivated by a sincere interest in peace on the peninsula and by charitable sentiments toward the subjects of a cruel and belligerent regime. The talks were seen as the fruition of a process that had been under way for almost five decades.
For North Korea, however, the four-way talks were merely the next step in its strategy of negotiating for survival.
The North has made steady progress through fifty years of negotiation. At the close of the Korean War, North Korea was worse off than it is today. It was recognized only by its ideological sponsors, condemned by the international community for instigating a war, and devastated as a result of its own aggression. Today, North Korea has obtained political recognition, security assurances, and significant economic assistance from its former enemies. Its negotiating strategy has brought the regime back from the point of collapse time and again during the intervening years.
North Korea's situation today is indeed grim, but such circumstances are not unfamiliar for the regime. In fact, it is only the regime's tenuous hold on power that impels it to negotiate at all. The regime uses negotiations exclusively to ensure its survival, extend its power, and enhance its control. Whatever peripheral benefits it make acquire, North Korea consistently uses negotiations to pressure its adversaries to disarm, obtain advantages that compensate for the regime's economic failure, and reinforce the regime's oppressive domestic political measures.
North Korea's negotiating strategy is unique because it is defined by the character of the North Korean regime it serves and is derived from the unique circumstances and worldview of that regime. It differs from other nations' negotiating strategies because it must address the regime's own systemic problems: its tenuous hold on its people's loyalty, its dissolute national economic policy that cannot meet its people's needs, and its antagonistic approach to other nations.
At least one American negotiator recommended in all seriousness that the way to deal with North Korea is simply to refuse to negotiate. 90 Such an approach would leave North Korea to confront its own failings, and therefore holds a great deal of logical appeal. The desire to achieve a resolution of troublesome issues is, however, a constant influence on Western nations and their negotiators.
The hope of resolving the intractable issues on the peninsula has always attracted the attention of well-motivated, dedicated diplomats who genuinely seek peace and stability. Furthermore, North Korea has often forced the West to enter into negotiations-by capturing hapless citizens or military personnel and holding them as ransom, by conducting military adventures below the threshold that would start a war, or by promising a new era of progress.
Fear of war is one reason the West negotiates with North Korea.91 Because North Korea is perceived as irrational and unpredictable, and because the consequences of war would be severe, there will always be people in the West who fear that negotiation is the only alternative to war. North Korea has a different view: negotiation is war by other means. The process of negotiation is cleverly managed by North Korea to postpone war while it strengthens its military ability and pressures the West to disarm. The danger for the West is that war may in fact be inevitable, but it will come only at a time of North Korea's choosing, when North Korea has perfected its weaponry and can be confident of surviving the conflict.
The genuine alternative to war with North Korea is now, and always has been, credible deterrence. North Korea will not consciously incite a regime-terminating war any more than it will pursue regimethreatening reforms. In every instance when Western resolve was credible, North Korea retreated. On the verge of conflict, North Korea hastened to offer alternatives in order to ensure the regime's survival.
Similarly, the alternative to North Korean management of the negotiating process is Western management of the process. There are very few tactics in North Korea's repertoire that the West could not use at least as effectively. Self-restraint, not allied weakness, keeps South Korea from infiltrating the North, demanding negotiations on its own terms, and undermining the incompetent regime in the North.
The West negotiates from a position of strength, but neglects to bring its strength to bear. It chooses not to pressure North Korea with its superior military power, agreeing instead not to threaten. It holds economic power that North Korea cannot compete with, but gives the regime economic aid. It can afford not to negotiate, but instead of making North Korea sue for peace, the West implores North Korea to participate in talks in which the West has virtually nothing at stake. In every negotiation, the West holds tactical and strategic leverage it will not employ.

Yes deterrence
Morgan 2006 (Patrick, Conflict Management and Peace Science, 23.2, “Deterrence and system management: the case of North Korea”)

There are concerns that the North may attack because its leaders could be irrational, not taking deterrence seriously and miscalculating the consequences of an attack. Cited is the way the North often seems cavalier about a war, threatening one over all sorts of provocations, such as UN sanctions. Does this call U.S.–ROK deterrence into question? First, it is possible the regime could be irrational. It has a history of serious miscalculations and irrationality cannot be ruled out. However, contrary to the standard view, the target’s rationality is not a prerequisite for successful deterrence. Deterrence theory was initially constructed by assuming actor rationality, but deterrence in practice does not require rationality in either party. All that is required is sufficient fear of the consequences from the threatened retaliation to lead the target to forgo what the threat seeks to prevent. That fear can have rational or irrational roots; the perceptions and judgments behind it may be rational, irrational, or some combination of the two. The same is true for judgments that deterrence threats can be ignored. Elaborate cost-benefit calculations are not needed to be afraid of being hurt and to seek to avoid it. Officials can be irrationally (excessively or for the wrong reasons) frightened or nonrationally frightened (frozen by stress, uncertainty, surprise, anxiety, or premonitions of disaster). Against such decision makers deterrence and compellence threats may work well. Moreover, some variants of irrationality can make a leader or government easier, not harder, to deter. In fact, since it is usually impossible to determine how rational leaders and governments are, even in retrospect, there is no uncontested evidence that rationality is crucial in deterrence success. The most sophisticated explanation of how mutual nuclear deterrence works relies on the parties being aware that they may not be consistently rational, so threats it would be foolish to carry out nevertheless work because governments are not guaranteed to act rationally—deterrers can benefit from being irrational or the possibility they might be, or be crippled by this in trying to deliver highly credible threats. In short, there is no fixed relationship between rationality and deterrence success or failure (Morgan, 2003, pp. 42–79). The crucial variable in deterrence situations is the will of the target government to attack and of the deterrer to respond militarily. Deterrence is meant to shrink the target’s will to attack, and though deterrence threats can have some effect, that will is shaped by other factors as well. As a result, deterrence may succeed, or fail, when it “shouldn’t”; that is, the other elements, rational and irrational, shaping the challenger’s decision may be compatible with or reinforce deterrence threats, or may serve to override them (Morgan 2003, pp. 164–165). In a serious crisis, how strong will the North’s determination to attack be?9 In fact, it is unlikely to be high. If it has nuclear weapons this will be particularly true; they will lead it to be more cautious, less provocative. Its military inferiority would be an important factor, as would the weakness of its economy and its dependence on outsiders. So would its lack of true allies that share its worldview or have a huge stake in the regime’s survival after it started a war. Most importantly, an attack on the ROK, Japan, or U.S. forces would put the regime’s survival at risk, and this is a regime long dedicated, above all, to survival. Attacking with weapons of mass destruction (WMD)would replay Japan’s mistake of 1941: seeking to get the US to settle for peace by using means that make it implaccable.

International fill-in is the link to our DA, not an answer
Eberstadt, 10 – Researcher with the American Enterprise Institute and the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies (Nicholas, 4/30/10, AEI, “The North Korea Endgame” http://www.aei.org/article/101992)

Then there is the potential for Chinese suzerainty. This notion has been floated by Chinese authors in recent years, in the form of "academic" but officially sanctioned studies that depict an ancient kingdom--conveniently stretching from Manchuria to the current-day Korean DMZ--which was once historically part of greater China. In February, Beijing reportedly offered Pyongyang a massive investment program, valued at $10 billion by sources for Seoul's Yonhap news agency. But China is apparently interested in North Korea's natural resources--mines, mineral extraction, and the transport systems to ship these commodities home--not its human resources. Uplifting the beleaguered North Korean population does not appear to figure in these plans.
Chinese suzerainty might put an end to the North Korean nuclear threat. But it would change the security environment in East Asia--perhaps radically.
Immense pressures would build in South Korea for accommodating Beijing's interests. Depending on China's preferences (and how these were parlayed), accommodation could mean an end to the U.S.-South Korea alliance. Japan would find its space for international maneuver correspondingly constricted; continuation of the U.S.-Japan alliance could even look risky. Much would depend upon Beijing's own conduct--but a Chinese hold over northern Korea would have devastating implications for the current U.S. security architecture in East Asia.

China pressure fails
Feffer 2009 – PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught graduate international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul (7/11, John, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Outsourcing North Korea Policy”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/outsourcing_north_korea_policy, WEA)

There is no greater indication of frustration than the revival of the perennial U.S. calls for China to take the lead in resolving the problem. Such are the strange reversals of history. In 1950, China intervened in the Korean War to beat back American soldiers and preserve the North Korean state. Sixty years later, America is desperate for China to intervene once again but this time to restrain its neighbor.
"To have any chance of success, our focus must first and foremost be on Beijing, as China is the lifeline of the North Korean regime," writes Robert Joseph, one of the hardliners on North Korea in the Bush State Department. "To succeed, we must get China to use its leverage for reasons of its own interest." Other writers, including Henry Kissinger, urge the United States to provide reassurances to China — that the Pentagon, for instance, would not take advantage of instability in North Korea to press a military advantage in Northeast Asia — in exchange for increased pressure from Beijing on Pyongyang.
Perhaps the most bizarre analysis to appear recently has come from Washington Post columnist Anne Applebaum. China has influence over North Korea, she asserts. It wants to gain influence over the United States. So it is deliberately encouraging North Korea in its provocative actions: in order to test the mettle of the Obama administration. "North Korea is a puppet state, and the Chinese are the puppeteers," she writes. "They could end this farce tomorrow."
But China is no puppeteer, and North Korea is no puppet. The notion that China has so much influence that it could stoke the conflict or bring it to a close is either wishful thinking (Joseph) or Cold War paranoia (Applebaum).
China is certainly furious over North Korea's recent actions, particularly the May nuclear test. At the UN, China has backed both increased sanctions against North Korea and interdiction at sea. "Kim Jong-il's folly has deprived the North of its last important friend in the international arena and has dramatically brought new unity to Asia," writes Zhu Feng, the deputy director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies in Beijing.
Yes, China was North Korea's most important friend in the international arena. That friendship was forged in war, sustained in overlapping ideology, and, more recently, kept on life support through Beijing's large deliveries of food and fuel.
But that friendship was always conflicted. If you go to Pyongyang, for instance, you will find virtually no acknowledgment of China's contributions to the Korean War. North Korea has always been prickly about its "big brother" to the West. North Korean ideologists have counterposed the philosophy of juche — self-reliance — against sadaejuii, or flunkeyism. Sadaejuii refers to the tributary system that China presided over in East Asia for hundreds of years and that treated Korea as a satellite territory. North Korea's self-reliance is not simply directed against the international system or the United States but against China and its efforts to secure a sphere of influence.
This resentment of neighborly paternalism translated into North Korea's rejection of Chinese advice on agricultural reforms and economic modernization. Tensions have emerged around trade and aid. More importantly, China has had precious little influence over North Korea's military decisions.
Sovereignty is the essential focus of the regime in Pyongyang. The government asserts its right to control what goes on within its borders — nuclear tests, rocket launches, detentions of journalists, economic reform. It is the nature of sovereignty that no one can tell you what to do. In this sense, North Korea is probably the last truly sovereign country in the world. It rejects the interfering influences of the United States, the UN, human rights organizations, and journalists. And, despite lingering ideological and historical bonds, North Korea keeps China at arm's length as well.
China is not eager to undermine North Korea's sovereignty. It doesn't want to push the regime to collapse. Beijing doesn't want the refugee flows. It doesn't want the economic turmoil. And it certainly doesn't want South Korea and the United States to take over the North and push U.S. troops up toward the Chinese border.

Japan troops fail
Dao, 03 (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html)

In addition, the United States is creating a base for four submarines in Guam and has a maintenance and logistics base in Singapore. The United States Pacific Command is headquartered in Hawaii. From those bases, American warplanes could reach South Korea in hours. But it would take days for an armada of warships or troop carriers to arrive from Japan. Adm. Dennis Blair, now retired, who commanded American forces in the Pacific until last year, argues that even if the threat from North Korea dissipates, the United States should keep forces on the peninsula in case of crises in other parts of Asia. "A soldier, marine or sailor in Korea or Japan was much more useful than one in Hawaii or San Diego, just because of the sailing time it takes to get then across the Pacific," he said.

Gates just assured South Korea we wouldn’t do the plan a few days ago
Sorcher, 10/12/10 (Sara, Congress Daily, “Gates Reaffirms Defense Commitment to South Korea,” http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20101012_3210.php)
In the face of the threat posed by North Korea's nuclear weapons program, the United States will continue to provide deterrence in the "full range of military might," Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Friday after two days of talks with South Korean Defense Minister Kim Tae-young (see GSN, Oct. 8).

The United States and South Korea recently held joint military exercises, initiated in response to the sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan by North Korea in March, an attack that killed 46 crewmembers. These "Invincible Spirit" exercises focused primarily on anti-submarine tactics, and were intended to demonstrate military readiness in response to the North Korean aggression.
"North Korea's provocations and aggressions will not be tolerated," Gates said during a brief news conference at the end of the 42nd annual security meeting of the top U.S. and South Korean defense officials
Neither Gates nor Kim commented on a Washington Post report today that North Korea may be farther along with plans to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. Kim did address another issue involving weapons of mass destruction, telling reporters, "We are currently in the process of coordinating the details of immediate response in the case of a biological or chemical threat from North Korea."
According to the Post, a report released Friday by the Institute for Science and International Security says North Korea has moved beyond laboratory-scale work and is now capable of building "at the very least, a pilot-scale" plant of centrifuges to enrich uranium. North Korea is estimated to possess 500-1,000 centrifuges. Experts agree the country would need 3,000 centrifuges to make enough enriched uranium for a bomb.
Kim acknowledged news reports from North Korea today confirming that leader Kim Jong Il will be succeeded by one of his sons, Kim Jong Un.
"We cannot eliminate the possibility of a situation of instability in North Korea that would influence the security of both [U.S and South Korean] governments," Kim said. "It is the responsibility of both governments to prepare for all possible contingencies," he added.
Ahead of the G-20 economic summit to take place in Seoul next month, Gates and Kim stressed their "robust coordination" to ensure a successful event. Kim had said in previous statements that North Korea may have plans to disrupt the summit.
While so far there has been no significant threat from North Korea, "we will continue to watch," Kim said.
The bilateral meeting also covered the newly established 2015 date for South Korea to take back operational control on the peninsula, Gates said. The transfer was first scheduled for 2012 but South Korean President Lee Myung-bak and President Obama agreed in June to delay the transfer to 2015 after the sinking of theCheonan.
This week's annual meeting falls 60 years after the Korean War, when the U.S.-led United Nations was initially handed peacetime and wartime operational control.

No overstretch
Lieber, 8 - Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert, “The Declinists Are Wrong Again,” Perspectives Papers on Current Affairs, 7/30, [[http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives47.html]])

The Declinists Are Back
Scarcely a day goes by without yet another book, article, speaker or report asserting that America is in trouble. We are told that the rise of China and India, the recovery of Putin’s Russia and the expansion of the European Union signal a profound shift in geopolitical power. War and insurgency in Iraq and the tenacity of the Taliban and al-Qaeda in Afghanistan are cited as evidence that military commitments are “breaking” the army. The leaders of Iran and North Korea vilify America and frustrate efforts to limit their nuclear programs. President Chavez of Venezuela, fortified by $130 per barrel oil, denounces Yankee imperialism and threatens to cut off oil shipments to the US. Meanwhile, opinion polls show widespread anti-American sentiment abroad.
On the domestic front, the subprime mortgage crisis, investment bank turmoil, a yawning balance of payments deficit, and the falling dollar lead to a warning that, “We are competing – and losing – in a global marketplace.” And America has become an “enfeebled” superpower, according to Fareed Zakaria, who adds that while the US will not be replaced in the foreseeable future, nevertheless, “Just as the rest of the world is opening up, America is closing down.”
The declinists’ central proposition holds that both the rise of other countries and an increasing degree of counterbalancing are transforming the international system and profoundly weakening the leading role of the United States in world affairs.
The new declinism rests not only on a global narrative, but it also makes an argument about fundamental domestic weaknesses. It points to the long-term burdens of entitlement programs, which will face large unfunded liabilities. Deficits in international trade and payments and the federal budget, a major credit crisis, collapse of the residential housing bubble and economic turbulence add to the list of troubles. Another clearly overdue task concerns the need to reduce dependence on imported oil and the resultant economic and security vulnerabilities. America’s infrastructure is aging and in need of repair and modernization. In addition, the effectiveness of government institutions may be less than optimal, as evident in the chaotic response to Hurricane Katrina, ongoing problems at the Department of Homeland Security, cumbersome interaction among intelligence agencies, and the need for more effective coordination of national security policy.
An Alternative Viewpoint
It is premature to write the epitaph for American power and leadership. In contrast to these arguments and analyses, America continues to maintain a position of relative predominance, and despite an increasing diffusion of power, no single country has emerged as a plausible counterpart or peer competitor. Apart from the long-term possibility of China, none is likely to do so.
Similarly, without minimizing the impact of domestic problems, it would be wise not to overstate the likelihood of fundamental economic decline. Current challenges are ultimately manageable and are likely to prove less daunting than those that afflicted the US economy in the mid- to late-1970s and early 1980s. It is worth reminding ourselves that the overall size and dynamism of the economy remains unmatched. Consider that America continues to lead on comparative measures of competitiveness, technology and innovation, for example ranking first in information technology and second (after Finland) in overall competitiveness. The US even ranks first in “space competitiveness.” Higher education and science represent another huge asset. America’s major research universities are outstanding in their international stature and rankings, occupying 17 of the top 20 places and 35 of the top 50. Noteworthy, 70 percent of the world’s Nobel Prize winners work in US institutions.
Broad demographic trends also favor the United States, whereas countries that are possible peer competitors face much more adverse patterns of aging populations. This is not only true for Russia, Europe, and Japan, but even China is affected as a result of its long-standing one child policy. America’s birthrate is consistently higher than in those countries and its population continues to grow through natural increase as well as immigration. Population patterns thus contribute to the long-term persistence of American predominance.
Militarily, no other country possesses anything like the capacity of the United States to project power on a global basis. American military technology remains unmatched, and even when foreign countries may achieve comparable quality in producing an individual type of modern weapon, none come close to parity in the overall systems applicable to land, sea or air warfare. While military spending is enormous in real terms, the defense budget amounts to approximately 4.2 percent of GDP. That contrasts with 6.6 percent at the height of the Reagan buildup and double digit percentages during the early and middle years of the Cold War. In short, the costs of national defense do not by themselves pose an imminent danger of overstretch.

Prefer Europe as a precedent—ground troops are historically vital
Scales and Wortzel 1999 – PhD, Major General in the U.S. Army, PhD in political science, US Army Colonel, Director of the Strategic Studies Institute, graduate of the Armed Forces Staff College and the Army War College (4/6, Robert and Larry, Strategic Studies Institute, “The Future U.S. Military Presence in Asia: Landpower and The Geostrategy of American Commitment”, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB75.pdf, WEA)

The European Example.
In Europe, the American participation with NATO to relieve the chaos in the Balkans was welcomed in part because the residents of Europe perceive the United States to be an honest broker with no designs on territory. When the Soviet Union collapsed and Germany reunited, the governments of France, Germany and England privately, consistently and persistently asked to keep a U.S. military presence on the continent.6 A senior German military official, during a visit with the Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army in 1991, explained that the United States must commit itself to maintaining a ground presence of at least a corps to be credible in Europe and to reassure NATO.7 The Germans believed that, given their history, they would never really be trusted by the rest of Europe, but that the continued presence of U.S. forces on their soil reassured their neighbors that Germany would not again be a threat to the continent. Recently George Kennan, the architect of American Cold War strategy, recalling the debate in the United States about a divided and disarmed Germany in 1949, reminded us of the insecurity in Europe about Germany: 
. . . the doubt that the remainder of the European community would ever easily or fully accommodate itself to the spectacle of Germany as the great power of the European mainland; and that unless and until these other Europeans could feel comfortable in their relationship to them. 8
The debate by the early 1990s was not over whether there should be an U.S. presence in Germany, but about what size force represented a credible presence for the United States to maintain in Europe.9 In the end, U.S. planners and their NATO colleagues determined that to maintain a “fully capable, fully staffed corps-sized force with accompanying air forces, naval forces, logistics, communications, other command, control and intelligence” assets to ensure a “solid force” required about 100,000 troops.10 Maintaining a forward presence allowed U.S. forces the flexibility to “conduct major independent combat operations in Europe on short notice,” while the use of a fully supported (corps-sized) force was “an accepted symbol of a meaningful military contribution to NATO.”11 A lower force level would have deprived the United States and its NATO allies of “an operationally effective, nationally independent, and politically weighty force in Europe.”12 Lower force levels would also have meant that the United States could not respond rapidly to other contingencies in the region, including Africa, without seriously degrading its commitments in NATO.13
The Application of the European Experience for Asia. The lessons of the utility and durability of the U.S. military presence in Europe have application worldwide, especially in Asia. There is not the sort of traditional balance of power in Asia that exists in Europe, making the U.S. presence essential to keep a balance.
In Asia, the debate over the utility of American bilateral alliances and the presence of U.S. forces, for some, is still ongoing. 14 The presence of the U.S. military is still welcome, despite some popular dissent.15 Many in Asia believe that an American military presence inhibits the rise of a power that could dominate either the mainland of continental Asia or the maritime lines of communication through the South China Sea. The people of Asia are concerned about China and its future potential strength.16 But like the Europeans, who are watchful of Germany, Asians are mindful of history and have not forgotten Japan, the Sino-Japanese War (1894-95), the Russo-Japanese War (1904-05), the creation of a puppet state in Manchuria in 1931, the invasion of China in 1937, and World War II.17 U.S. friends and allies in Asia do not openly talk about the fact that a U.S. presence in Japan inhibits its remilitarization, but many people in Asia are thankful that the stationing of American forces in Northeast Asia serves that purpose.18 While China publicly states its principled objection to the stationing of forces on foreign soil, privately Chinese leaders acknowledge that the American presence in Japan acts as a guard against remilitarization.19 These same Chinese leaders privately acknowledge that the presence of U.S. ground forces stabilizes the Korean peninsula.20 

===1nc Korea war advantage=== 

Provocations won’t escalate
Snyder, 10/10/10 - adjunct senior fellow for Korea studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. Mr. Snyder is also a senior associate in the international relations program of The Asia Foundation and Pacific Forum CSIS (Scott, “[[http://38north.org/2010/10/after-the-cheonan/|Prospects for Inter-Korean Relations after the Cheonan]],” [[http://38north.org/2010/10/after-the-cheonan/]])

Inter-Korean Cold War: Another incident or a relapse in inter-Korean tensions might lead both Koreas to maintain inflexible positions towards each other. In this situation, South Korean neoconservatives who wish to push North Korea over the edge might still prevail over pragmatists who are willing to settle for limited reciprocity to keep inter-Korean tensions under control. South Korea might seek backing from the United States to keep pressure up and could pursue an international campaign to insist on North Korea’s full denuclearization as a prerequisite for engagement. In the event of another downturn in relations, North Korea may pursue a policy of periodic provocations and reject any measure perceived as giving South Korea the upper hand, utilizing its isolation as a buffer against potential external interference in its leadership succession process.
In the event of further North Korean provocations, South Korean conservatives would work with the United States to squeeze the North Korean leadership through economic sanctions, further reduce inter-Korean trade, and continue to lobby Beijing to enforce international measures. Pyongyang would counter by seeking expanded Chinese economic assistance, pursuing additional limited provocations toward South Korea designed to highlight Seoul’s vulnerability, and blaming heightened tensions on the South’s policies in an attempt to influence its own domestic politics in the direction of a return to a more progressive approach.

Empirics
White 2010 – Master’s in journalism from Columbia and IR degree from the London School of Economics, editor for Business Insider and formerly wrote for MSNBC (3/26, Gregory, Business Insider, “The Long, Long History Of False Starts Of War Between South And North Korea”, http://www.businessinsider.com/were-calling-it-this-is-not-the-start-the-restart-of-the-korean-war-2010-3, WEA)

History suggests that this sinking of a South Korean naval vessel off the coast of the country will not be the restart of the Korean conflict.
Since the end of open conflict between North and South Korea, the North has consistently acted in an aggressive manner towards its neighbor.
During the 1960s, North Korea conducted military operations into the south, culminating in 1968 when 600 of these raids were reported.
In the 1970s, North Korea tried to assassinate key members of the South Korean government, in an attempt to push the crisis forward.
In 1999, two North Korean naval ships were blown up killing 30.
In 2002, a sea battle killed and unspecified amount of North Koreans and 5 South Koreans.
In November 2009, two military vessels exchanged fire (via HuffPo).
In January 2010, North Korea launched 30 shells into the country's no sail zone.
This time won't be different. Little will happen.

Deterrence means provocations from either side will never escalate to war
Bush, September 10 - Director, [[http://www.brookings.edu/cnaps.aspx|Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies]], The Brookings Institution (Randall, “The Challenge of a Nuclear North Korea: Dark Clouds, Only One Silver Lining,”
[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/09_north_korea_bush/09_north_korea_bush.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/09_north_korea_bush/09_north_korea_bush.pdf]]

Second, at the level of conventional deterrence, a striking asymmetry has been at play for decades.21 On the one hand, the robust capabilities of the U.S. and ROK armed forces deter North Korea from launching an all-out attack on South Korea in order to achieve its goal of unification of the Peninsula. Such a war would no doubt cause tremendous damage in the South, particularly because the North’s forward-deployed artillery put the Seoul metropolitan area at serious risk. Yet it would only be a matter of time before the United States and the ROK defeated the DPRK militarily and end it politically, even if the war remained conventional. And because the regime’s primary goal is likely survival, then its leadership understands that an all-out attack would be highly counter-productive.
On the other hand, that same North Korean ability to wreak devastating damage on the Seoul area has deterred the United States and South Korea from responding too robustly to DPRK provocations short of all-out war. In those circumstances, U.S. and ROK decision-makers must ask at what point their violent retaliation for those provocations would trigger a fullscale attack by the North on the South. Pyongyang’s promise during the 1994 nuclear crisis to turn the peninsula into a “sea of fire” is a case in point. Consequently, the allies have taken a cautious tack when devising their response. It may in fact be the case that among other reasons Pyongyang engages in such provocations to remind Washington and Seoul that they are deterred. Thus Pyongyang uses its limited power to demonstrate the powerlessness of others.
Therefore, we can expect new provocations both in the run-up to Kim Jong-il’s death and in the immediate aftermath: attacks on ROK (or Japanese?) naval vessels; incidents in the demilitarized zone; missile tests, nuclear tests, and so on. Understanding the political purpose of these actions, the response of the United States and South Korea should be neither too soft nor too hard. Tolerating provocations will only invite more frequent and reckless probes. To respond too harshly runs the risks of creating an action-reaction spiral (something that China fears). At a minimum, the alliance should continue what it has already done: mobilize robust displays of force; conduct military exercises to improve capabilities; and mount diplomatic efforts so that the DPRK pays a price for its provocations. Although these steps have not fundamentally changed North Korea’s policies, they have not provoked it to escalate.

TURN—they reward brinksmanship, turns case
Horowitz, 05 – doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf)

U.S. military leverage theoretically functions both in a negative fashion, as U.S. deployments and commitments deter North Korean military adventurism, and in a positive fashion, because incentives to ratchet down military tension might elicit cooperative behavior from Pyongyang. This is not to say that Washington should make direct military concessions to Pyongyang in response to threats; doing so would serve to reinforce the North Korean belief that their foreign policy goals can be best achieved through brinkmanship. Yet, U.S. military power remains a potential source of leverage and will inevitably be employed as a piece of a negotiated agreement to dismantle North Korea’s nuclear program or if a new nuclear bargain is not achieved. 

No extinction from bioweapons
Coates 2009 - former adjunct professor at George Washington University, President of the Kanawha Institute for the Study of the Future and was President of the International Association for Impact Assessment and was President of the Association for Science, Technology and Innovation, M.S., Hon D., FWAAS, FAAAS, (Joseph F., Futures 41, 694-705, "Risks and threats to civilization, humankind, and the earth”, ScienceDirect, WEA)

Could diseases in animals be converted in a laboratory into ones transmissible among people? The answer is yes, but it is very unlikely that one could accomplish this easily and if one did have an organism that would transmit from animal to people, and then people to people, it would only be significant if that animal was widely distributed in the target area. So birds would be ideal and rats might be significant. There are few other animals around to transmit to people unless we consider pets and insects. We have pretty good protection against insects and, in a crisis, we would be ready to use somewhat more dangerous materials like DDT to fight a contaminated invasion until we developed other remedies. The serious limitation on self-propagating diseases generated for terrorists’ purposes is that it could be self-defeating because if it is effectively self-propagating, it will eventually bounce back to the attacking country and, presumably, have similar effects there as it has in the target country.
Early detection of disease spread is fairly straightforward in terms of modern epidemiology in most parts of the world. The most dramatic effects, aside from deaths, would be in the preventive measure to reduce the propagation of the disease from spreading by extremely severe reduction in travel for both people and cargoes, domestically and internationally. This may extend for quite a time until a preventive measure or vaccine is developed, tested and proven. Even assuming that an enemy initiated an attack, there would be the problem of where and what would happen as we learned about the attack. Would it become self-limiting? Suppose they managed a release in ten cities. Those ten largest cities, perhaps, represent 10% of the population and we could take internal measures, as suggested above, to contain it in those cities. Pandemics are a credible catastrophic situation slowing and disrupting the economy and society but not threatening nationhood in the advanced nations. A high death-rate pandemic is likely to create a greater setback in Worlds 2 and 3. The Black Death in Europe 1347–1352 killed an estimated third of the population, 25 million people. The Spanish Flu in 1918 killed 20–50 million people and infected a billion. The latter had no lasting effects comprising a threat to stability.

Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy
Magnum 04- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea
(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]au)

Many Koreans ignore the fact that while the ROK economy performed exceptionally well during the Asian economic crisis of the late 1990s, it is a fragile economy that is dependent on regional stability to encourage continued foreign investment. Investors state that a strong military presence in South Korea provides stability against foreign aggression, which gives investors the confidence to put money in the Korean economy. Because Korea relies so heavily on the import of natural resources to fuel its industry, the lack of foreign investment to permit the purchase of those resources would be devastating. Consequently, maintaining a strong military, whether independent of a U.S. military presence or not, is critical to maintaining the health of the South Korean economy. This fact is often overlooked in the ROK public’s emotional rush to seek equality in its relationship with the United States. Furthermore, without strong public will to support and pay for the transformation of ROK forces into a strong regional military, the ROK public may not let its government spend the money necessary to improve the capability of its forces.

It also hurts our position in the Asia-Pacific market—that’s key
Kinne 04- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]au)

Strategic withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea would present some unique economic challenges for the United States. As discussed earlier, removal of forces might promote a peaceful solution that affords the U.S. and other regional actor’s access to a new and emerging North Korean market. Although remotely possible, this is highly unlikely given the North’s past history and aggressive nature. More than likely, the U.S. would lose global and regional credibility, unfettered access to the Asian-Pacific market, and the ability to influence regional economic policies. Our departure might also lead to reduced levels of foreign investment (other than by U.S.) due to security concerns. Loss of this foothold in the Asian- Pacific market would be cataclysmic to the U.S. economy. Approximately 25 percent of our annual imports come from this region.14 In addition, the emergence of China as a potential global super power will require that the U.S. remain fully entrenched in this region in order to contain and shape China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace. 

The impact is democracy
NEWSWEEK 1-29-2010 (“Selling South Korea,” http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html) 

In short, the South Korean model is a more mature cousin of China's—a hybrid economy, part free market, part state-controlled—but with more freedom for the market and for political dissent. Now Lee is positioning South Korea within Asia as a dynamic alternative to both China's mighty command economy and Japan's no-growth economy. In Southeast Asia, South Korea has long been admired for completing an economic miracle in just one generation, moving its 48 million people out of poverty and entering the ranks of fully industrialized nations, with average per capita income that surpassed $20,000 in 2007. And, unlike China, South Korea has achieved economic and political growth at the same time, with an increasingly well-established multiparty democracy that respects free speech and election results. South Korea, says U.S. Ambassador Kathleen Stephens, is "the best example in the post–World War II era of a country that has overcome enormous obstacles to achieve this kind of success." Many Southeast Asian nations, alarmed by the harsh sides of the China model, look to South Korea as an alternative. Vietnam is sending civil servants there, studying how in the 1970s and '80s Seoul used massive government support, such as cheap loans, to develop strategic industries such as steel and petrochemicals as the backbone of its export economy. As part of Vietnam's effort to develop capital markets, it also now runs a stock exchange in Hanoi, built with the help of the Korea Stock Exchange. Officials from Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, and Uzbekistan regularly visit South Korea to join training programs that teach economic and business management. "Developing countries are eager to learn South Korea's economic model because of its relevance to them," says Euh Yoon-dae, a Korea University economist currently heading a presidential committee to promote the national brand. "Our open economic system is more appealing to them than, say, that of China."

Extinction
Diamond, 95 – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm, KONTOPOULOS)

OTHER THREATS 
This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. 
LESSONS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY 
The experience of this century offers important lessons. Countries that govern themselves in a truly democratic fashion do not go to war with one another. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. Democratic governments do not ethnically "cleanse" their own populations, and they are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies do not sponsor terrorism against one another. They do not build weapons of mass destruction to use on or to threaten one another. Democratic countries form more reliable, open, and enduring trading partnerships. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment. They are more environmentally responsible because they must answer to their own citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments. They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.

===1nc 6 party talks advantage=== 

Russia can’t influence Northeast Asia—it hasn’t played any meaningful role regarding North Korea AND it can’t overcome xenophobic attitudes/regional competition
Itoh 09 (Soichi, "Can Russia Become a 'Regional Power' in Northeast Asia," http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:DuJ949huMCIJ:www.allacademic.com/meta/p99096_index.html+russia+north-east+asia+influence&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us)

Since Vladimir Putin?s coming to power as President in 2000, Russian foreign policy towards East Asia has been oriented towards geopolitical considerations as well as economic pragmatism, as evidenced by his official statements and related governmental programs. This paper, however, argues that Russia’ attempt to pursue both geopolitical and economic pragmatism has resulted in a stalemate: on the one hand, it has continued to envisage the potential threat of geopolitical loss against Beijing due to the gradual expansion of Chinese demographic and economic influence on the Russian territory as a paradoxical consequence of advancing the Sino-Russian Strategic Partnership. On the other, Moscow?s intention of playing China off against Japan in anticipation of maximizing foreign investment from the latter ? crucial to the development of the Russian Far East ? has failed to bear fruit. As regards relations with Japan, Russia has succeeded neither in demonstrating itself to be a reliable strategic partner to countervail the Chinese regional influence, despite the deteriorating Sino-Japanese relationship, nor in playing an intermediary role in the North Korean nuclear crisis. Moreover, unlike the most common interpretation of the deadlock in Russo-Japanese relations, it is domestic unpreparedness (the unfavorable investment climate and the lack of a concrete vision of energy projects? profitability for foreign participants) rather than the bilateral territorial issue that has prevented Japan fully supporting the gigantic project involving the construction of an oil pipeline from East Siberia to the Pacific Ocean (the biggest symbol of possible economic cooperation between the two).This paper concludes that it is difficult for Moscow to realize its ambition of becoming a regional power, especially by maximizing her potential role as an energy supplier in the China-led energy-hungry East Asia, without not only overcoming increasingly xenophobic attitudes towards foreign capital, but also abandoning the expectation of Sino-Japanese competition over the energy resources in the Russian Far East.

Relations are inevitably low and useless – Russia doesn’t want them
Kramer ‘10 (David J. Kramer is a senior transatlantic fellow with the German Marshall Fund of the United States. The Washington Quarterly is a journal of international affairs and is published by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Resetting U.S.-Russian Relations: It Takes Two,” January 2010 - Volume 33, Number 1, WRW)

In controversial comments made as he was returning from a July trip to Georgia and Ukraine, Vice President Joseph R. Biden referred to Russia’s looming demographic crisis, its ‘‘withering economy,’’ and its difficulty in adjusting to ‘‘loss of empire.’’ He noted Russia’s interest in negotiating further cuts in nuclear weapons because they cannot afford to maintain even current levels, adding that it is ‘‘clinging to something in the past that is not sustainable.’’ Though arguably indiscreet in his comments, Biden nevertheless spoke the truth about the problems facing Russia. His conclusion that Russia’s weakness and problems would induce Moscow to be more in synch with U.S. interests and likely to cooperate on issues such as Iran, however, was widely off the mark. The problems Biden identified, in fact, make Russia’s leaders less, not more, likely to work with the United States on a whole host of issues. They are apt to deflect their population’s attention from the growing number of difficulties at home by shifting attention onto others, such as neighboring Georgia or Ukraine, or to clamp down even more against the slightest possible threats to their control inside Russia. That kind of Russia will be extremely difficult for the Obama administration to work with on issues such as Iran, missile defense, and the states along Russia’s borders. That kind of Russia will have fewer interests in common with the United States and expose a widening values gap between the two countries. Since Obama’s trip to Moscow, provocative visits to Abkhazia and South Ossetia by Medvedev and Putin respectively, Medvedev’s renewed threats to target Iskander missiles against the Czech Republic and Poland if U.S. missile defense plans move forward in those two countries, and the murders of human rights activists and charity heads in Chechnya have cast a shadow over the relationship. At the end of the day, Russia’s current leadership—corrupt, revisionist, and insecure as it is—will likely decide that perpetuating the image of the United States as a threat is more important to maintaining the Kremlin’s grip on power than a new, more positive chapter in U.S.—Russia relations. Four issues are likely to dominate the relationship for the foreseeable future: policy toward Russia’s neighbors, missile defense, strategic challenges such as Iran, and developments inside Russia. Alas, none of these issues offers much promise for building a strong foundation for the bilateral relationship. 

No chance of restarting the Six Party talks for reasons unrelated to US presence
Snyder, 10/10/10 - adjunct senior fellow for Korea studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. Mr. Snyder is also a senior associate in the international relations program of The Asia Foundation and Pacific Forum CSIS (Scott, “[[http://38north.org/2010/10/after-the-cheonan/|Prospects for Inter-Korean Relations after the Cheonan]],” [[http://38north.org/2010/10/after-the-cheonan/]])

The stalled inter-Korean relationship as a result of the Cheonan sinking is also affecting regional stability. Although the Lee administration has asserted that it will not return to Six Party Talks until North Korea apologizes and punishes those responsible China has restarted shuttle diplomacy in recent weeks in an effort to jumpstart the talks. Ambassador Stephen Bosworth, the U.S. special envoy for North Korea Policy, has returned to the region for the first time since the Cheonan incident, signaling U.S. interest in moving forward while continuing to insist on the need for a stable inter-Korean relationship as a prerequisite for resuming the talks. However, South Korea is likely to be less enthusiastic about China’s continued role as convener of the Six Party Talks while Beijing is seen as trying to protect Pyongyang from international condemnation. And in the absence of a stable inter-Korean relationship, it is hard to imagine that the Six Party Talks would make any significant progress.

Post-Cheonan demands make the Six Party talks impossible 
Kim, 10/17/10 - research professor with the Ilmin Institute of International Relations at Korea University and an adjunct professor at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies (Tony, Korea Times, “Intransigence in N. Korea policy,”
[[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/10/137_74684.html]]

Washington’s ``strategic patience” has so far yielded no progress on denuclearization, but it has certainly strengthened the U.S.-ROK alliance, especially since the sinking of the Cheonan ship. Seoul has not dropped its demand for a North Korean apology and punishment of those responsible for torpedoing the South Korean naval ship as a necessary condition for the resumption of inter-Korean dialogue. Seoul knows that the North would not accept its demand. Yet, unless the Cheonan issue is somehow resolved to the South’s satisfaction, there is no chance for improved inter-Korean relations, therefore, no prospect for restarting the six-party talks.

China has no real influence and will support North Korean nuclearization
McCurry, 10/5/10 - GlobalPost correspondent for Japan in Tokyo. (Justin, The Global Post, “[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/101005/north-korea-pyongyang-hu-jintao-kim-jong-il|Beijing's big gamble: Can it control North Korea?]],” [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/101005/north-korea-pyongyang-hu-jintao-kim-jong-il]])

But does China wield as much influence over the North as some suggest? Hajime Izumi, a professor of international relations at the University of Shizuoka in Japan, said the world is prone to overstate Beijing’s diplomatic leverage and its interest in economic reform.
“China doesn’t have enough influence to alter North Korean policy,” he said. “It can’t force Pyongyang to give up its nuclear weapons, and as for the succession issue, it has to exercise the principle of non-interference. All Hu would have done at the summit was authorize the process.
“Everything China does arises from mistrust of the North Korean leadership. The People’s Liberation Army is particularly worried that if China pushes too hard for change, that North Korea will react. There could even be conflict.”
Despite Kim’s reported reaffirmation of his commitment to nuclear talks, Horvat says maintaining nuclear tensions on the peninsula works to China’s advantage.
“China puts up with the nuclear issue because it receives enormous diplomatic benefits. It’s almost as if it prefers a problem to a solution,” he said.

China won’t do more in North Korea – concerns over pushing too hard, being exposed for not having leverage, and worries over the international precedent it would set overwhelm the plan
Lewis, 10 – National Intelligence Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Nicole, “Reassessing China’s Role in North Korea”, 6/22, [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22482/reassessing_chinas_role_in_north_korea.html]])

So why can't Washington persuade China to take a tougher position on North Korea? A major deterrent for Beijing is its concern about stability, both on and inside its borders. Beijing may assess that North Korea is closer to collapse than at any time in its history, given its succession crisis, an unhealthy Kim Jong-Il, possible fractures between the military and Kim, a dire economic situation, and international isolation.
Thus, pushing too hard might drive Kim to raise the stakes by provoking armed conflict with South Korea, almost certainly the United States, and possibly Japan, a worst-case scenario for China. It could also alienate and isolate the new leadership-in-waiting in Pyongyang, something Beijing wants to avoid. In addition, pushing too hard might hasten a collapse, which could result in a flood of North Koreans streaming into China. Chinese leaders are likely to worry that these refugees would overstress the economic and social welfare systems of the areas where they settle.
Beijing may also be concerned about being exposed as having very little sway over Kim. Certainly, China is a major supplier of food and fuel to the North, but the "lips and teeth" relationship that the two countries historically enjoyed effectively died with Kim Il-Sung (Kim Jong-Il's father), and the ties between the two militaries are not nearly what they were in the 1950s when China came to North Korea's aid during the Korean War. As China emerges as a major--and possibly the major--regional power in East Asia, it does not want to risk being publicly flouted by Pyongyang and therefore looking like a paper tiger.
The Chinese leadership almost certainly is thinking about how its actions could set uncomfortable precedents that China might be held to in the future. Beijing probably assesses that its approach to North Korea has a bearing on what the international community will demand from China with respect to sanctions or even military action against Iran. Moreover, Chinese leaders do not want to be seen as interfering in the internal affairs of another sovereign country, a long-standing tenet of Chinese foreign policy that reflects its concern about other states meddling in its affairs on issues like Taiwan and Tibet.
Beijing likely relishes playing good cop to Washington's bad cop. Making the United States look like the enforcer or the bullying hegemon only benefits China and enables it to continue to nurture its own status in the region as an alternative to the U.S. power structure.

No China war - Chinese buildup isn’t enough to matter and the US military deters it
Ross, 9 –professor of political science at Boston College (Robert, The National Interest, “Myth”, 9/1, 
[[http://nationalinterest.org/greatdebate/dragons/myth-3819]])

Yet China does not pose a threat to America's vital security interests today, tomorrow or at any time in the near future. Neither alarm nor exaggerated assessments of contemporary China's relative capabilities and the impact of Chinese defense modernization on U.S. security interests in East Asia is needed because, despite China's military advances, it has not developed the necessary technologies to constitute a grave threat. Beijing's strategic advances do not require a major change in Washington's defense or regional security policy, or in U.S. policy toward China. Rather, ongoing American confidence in its capabilities and in the strength of its regional partnerships allows the United States to enjoy both extensive military and diplomatic cooperation with China while it consolidates its regional security interests. The China threat is simply vastly overrated.
AMERICA'S VITAL security interests, including in East Asia, are all in the maritime regions. With superior maritime power, the United States can not only dominate regional sea-lanes but also guarantee a favorable balance of power that prevents the emergence of a regional hegemon. And despite China's military advances and its challenge to America's ability to project its power in the region, the United States can be confident in its ability to retain maritime dominance well into the twenty-first century.
East Asia possesses plentiful offshore assets that enable the United States to maintain a robust military presence, to contend with a rising China and to maintain a favorable balance of power. The U.S. alliance with Japan and its close strategic partnership with Singapore provide Washington with key naval and air facilities essential to regional power projection. The United States also has developed strategic cooperation with Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. Each country possesses significant port facilities that can contribute to U.S. capabilities during periods of heightened tension, whether it be over Taiwan or North Korea.
The United States developed and sustained its strategic partnerships with East Asia's maritime countries and maintained the balance of power both during and after the cold war because of its overwhelming naval superiority. America's power-projection capability has assured U.S. strategic partners that they can depend on the United States to deter another great power from attacking them; and, should war ensue, that they would incur minimal costs. This American security guarantee is as robust and credible as ever.
The critical factor in assessing the modernization of the PLA's military forces is thus whether China is on the verge of challenging U.S. deterrence and developing war-winning capabilities to such a degree that East Asia's maritime countries would question the value of their strategic alignment with the United States. But, though China's capabilities are increasing, in no way do they challenge U.S. supremacy. America's maritime security is based not only on its superior surface fleet, which enables it to project airpower into distant regions, but also on its subsurface ships, which provide secure "stealth" platforms for retaliatory strikes, and its advanced command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) capabilities. In each of these areas, China is far from successfully posing any kind of serious immediate challenge.
CHINA IS buying and building a better maritime capability. However, the net effect of China's naval advances on U.S. maritime superiority is negligible.
Since the early 1990s-especially later in the decade as the Taiwan conflict escalated and following the 1996 U.S.-China Taiwan Strait confrontation-Beijing focused its maritime-acquisitions program primarily on the purchase of modern submarines to contribute to an access-denial capability that could limit U.S. operations in a Taiwan contingency. It purchased twelve Kilo-class submarines from Russia and it has developed its own Song-class and Yuan-class models. These highly capable diesel submarines are difficult to detect. In addition, China complemented its submarine capability with a coastal deployment of Russian Su-27 and Su-30 aircraft and over one thousand five hundred Russian surface-to-air missiles. The combined effect of these deployments has been greater Chinese ability to target an American aircraft carrier and an improved ability to deny U.S. ships and aircraft access to Chinese coastal waters.
Indeed, American power-projection capabilities in East Asia are more vulnerable now than at any time since the end of the cold war. We can no longer guarantee the security of a carrier. Nevertheless, the U.S. Navy is acutely aware of Chinese advances and is responding with measures to minimize the vulnerability of aircraft carriers. Due to better funding, improved technologies and peacetime surveillance of Chinese submarines, the American carrier strike group's ability to track them and the U.S. Navy's antisubmarine capabilities are constantly improving. The U.S. strike group's counter-electronic-warfare capabilities can also interfere with the PLA Navy's reconnaissance ability.
Improved Chinese capabilities complicate U.S. naval operations and require greater caution in operating an aircraft carrier near the Chinese coast, particularly in the case of a conflict over Taiwan. A carrier strike force may well have to follow a less direct route into the area and maintain a greater distance from China's coast to reduce its vulnerability to Chinese capabilities. But such complications to U.S. operations do not significantly degrade Washington's ability to project superior power into maritime theaters. The United States still possesses the only power-projection capability in East Asia.

China has no hope of encouraging greater regionalism – it alienates regional actors
Bloomberg News, 9/27/10 (“China’s Charm Blitz in ‘Shambles’ Over Regional Spats,”
[[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-09-27/china-s-charm-blitz-in-shambles-over-regional-spats.html]])

Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) -- China may be undermining its effort to build strong ties with its neighbors and draw them away from the U.S. orbit as it seeks to impose its will in territorial disputes with Japan and Southeast Asian nations.
Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies deteriorated to the lowest point in five years during the 17-day detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain before Japanese authorities last week decided to release him. China opposed U.S.-South Korea military exercises aimed at deterring North Korea, and dismissed regional efforts to mediate maritime territorial claims.
Those positions reflect a more assertive diplomatic role in Asia over the past decade as China developed into Asia’s biggest economy. China set up a regional forum, flooded Malaysia and Thailand with tourists, boosted economic aid to countries including the Philippines and participated in Association of Southeast Asian Nations security dialogues.
“China has tried to establish an image in the region as a nice guy, but all of this could be in a shambles right now,” said Huang Jing, a visiting professor at the National University of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. “The real issue here is whether Beijing cares.”
China’s stance may benefit U.S.-Japan relations strained by a dispute over relocating American troops.
Obama-Kan Meeting
Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan and President Barack Obama in New York met Sept. 23 on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, and “reaffirmed their commitment to strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance,” according to a White House statement.
Kan in June succeeded Yukio Hatoyama, who made improving Chinese ties key to his administration and said in December that “Japan-China relations are developing in a strategically beneficial way.” Hatoyama resigned in June after signing an agreement with the U.S. to keep a Marine base in Okinawa over the objections of local residents and members of his government.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao refused to see Kan in New York. The boat captain was arrested Sept. 7 near islands in the East China Sea -- known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese -- claimed by both countries close to natural gas fields. China and Japan signed an agreement in 2008 that has yet to be implemented to jointly develop the fields.
The captain’s release came hours after Japan said four of its citizens were being held in China for allegedly videotaping military targets. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku said the government didn’t think it was related to the dispute.
‘No Intention Whatsoever’
China over the weekend demanded an apology and compensation for the seizure of the trawler and crew, which Japan rejected. The Japanese government today said China should pay for repairs for the two damaged Coast Guard boats.
“We will demand that the ships be returned to their original condition,” Sengoku said today. “The ball’s in China’s court” to improve ties.
Sengoku last week couldn’t confirm reports that China has cut off Japan-bound exports of rare earth metals, which are used in hybrid vehicles and laptop computers as well as night-vision goggles and naval radar. A Chinese official denied the reports.
“China is testing Japan as domestic politics have been unstable and Japan-U.S. ties shaky,” said Koji Murata, professor of international relations at Doshisha University in Kyoto. The dispute with China “provides an opportunity for the Japanese to be reminded of the importance of U.S. relations.”
Opposition Criticism
The decision by prosecutors to release the captain, citing Japan-China ties as a contributing factor, drew criticism from ruling Democratic Party of Japan lawmakers as well as opposition politicians. A group of 73 DPJ legislators issued a statement calling the prosecutors’ judgment “extremely regrettable.”
Nobuteru Ishihara, secretary-general of the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, yesterday on NHK Television called the release “totally unacceptable.” He said he would summon officials to testify in parliament.
The U.S. is also rebuilding ties with Asean. Heads of many of its member states, including Vietnam, the Philippines and Malaysia, met Obama on Sept. 24. Obama told the group that the U.S. has an “enormous stake” in the region and will play a leadership role. The leaders issued a statement calling for the peaceful settlement of maritime and other regional disputes.
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters Sept. 21 that “China enjoys indisputable sovereign rights over the South China Sea islands and adjacent waters” and opposes the U.S. discussing such conflicts with Asean.
Vietnam-China Dispute
Vietnam, whose president Nguyen Minh Triet co-chaired the meeting with Obama, disagrees and is selling rights to oil and gas fields that conflict with China’s claims. China arrests Vietnamese fishermen caught in disputed waters.
Meanwhile, South Korea and the U.S. are planning naval exercises in the Yellow Sea aimed at deterring North Korea, which an international probe found had torpedoed and sank a South Korean patrol boat in March. China has not accepted those findings and North Korean leader Kim Jong Il visited China twice this year, both times meeting with President Hu Jintao.
China is opposed to the exercises, and Chinese general Luo Yuan in August said that the government could retaliate through its holdings of $846.7 billion in U.S. Treasury securities. China is the biggest foreign holder of U.S. government debt.
China’s reaction to the captain’s detention included canceling youth visits, a protest outside of Japan’s embassy in Beijing and at least six summons of the Japanese ambassador. Huang said the response reflects the need to look tough on territorial issues amid jockeying for power ahead of 2012 leadership changes, when Hu and Wen are set to step down from their Communist Party posts.
“This will hurt China,” said Robert Dujarric, director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at Temple University’s Tokyo campus. “The reaction makes it seem to be coming from a petty, third-world country.”


==Japan neg== 

===1nc SDF disad=== 

No excess Japan military spending now – current budgets sufficient to ramp up the military. 
Moss, 12-21-2010
[Trefor, Asia News, “New defense posture mostly symbolic,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LL21Dh01.html]

In fact, this is the opposite of the truth: Japan appears determined to rebalance the strategic equation using the minimum means necessary. Hence it is not increasing its defense budget - which remains under 1% of GDP and around half of China's - choosing to redistribute resources rather than attempt to match Beijing's yearly spending hikes. Increasing the defense budget is neither politically nor financially viable for the current administration. But keeping defense spending more or less flat is itself a statement of intent, given Japan's unshakeable economic gloom; and some fairly ambitious procurement plans have been outlined for a military with no extra cash to spend. Upgrading the navy's submarine fleet from 16 to 22 is a particularly bold decision, reflecting the growing number of "confrontations over territory, sovereignty, and economic interests" which the NDPG list first among the inclement aspects of Japan's new security environment. Japan's fleet of Aegis destroyers will also rise from four to six, and more Patriot missile batteries will be rolled out across the country (reversing an earlier decision to put Patriot deployment on hold). The document did not go into the specifics of Japan's future fighter program, but a new aircraft - most likely the pricey but stealthy F-35 - will be selected in the next couple of years. A trimming of the armed forces' headcount and the scrapping of some Cold War equipment, mainly tanks, are expected to free up funding for these new priorities. However, a doctrinal change within the new NDPG may be the most important indicator that Tokyo is facing up to a future in which the US may no longer be the guarantor of Japanese security. The Japanese Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) will now adopt a policy of ‘dynamic defense', abandoning the long-held principle of ‘static defense'. The old approach was a kind of unilateral, see-no-evil stance on national security, whereby Japan declined (at least in theory) to balance against other countries by matching procurements and deployments to the threats that other countries seemed to pose. This defense-in-isolation was always more a philosophy than a workable defense policy, and its abandonment is a sign of greater realism amongst Japan's decision-makers - and, moreover, amongst Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) officials, who were seen as soft on defense before their election in 2009. In practice, Japan had already been moving towards a policy of ‘dynamic defense': the procurement of two helicopter carriers, which are already in active service, has been the clearest indication yet that the JSDF was seeking to become a more reactive and more readily deployable force. But the formal adoption of the dynamic defense policy is a symbolic recognition that Japan needs to monitor the threats in its near abroad – especially those that impinge on its outlying territories – and be able to respond to them according to the circumstances. But this is not a sudden change in Tokyo's thinking. The developments outlined by the NDPG "have been coming for at least ten years and are part of a long-term shift", explains Christopher Hughes, professor of international politics and Japanese Studies at Warwick University. "But now we're seeing some acceleration in the rate of change," he notes. "The submarine force increase, for example - in Japanese terms, that was fast decision making." Japan needs ideally to increase its defense budget in order to fully meet the threats posed by "North Korea's nuclear development and China's aggressive naval operations", argues Yukari Kubota, a visiting associate professor at Osaka University, although she regards the adoption of the ‘dynamic defense' policy as a progressive move. Yukari also advocates the revision of Japan's ban on arms exports but suspects that nothing will be done, in spite of persistent lobbying from the Ministry of Defense. "There is not a good chance that [the MoD] will succeed," she says. "The Minister of Defense, Toshimi Kitazawa, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Seiji Maehara, have opened their minds to revising the arms export ban, but Prime Minister Naoto Kan is reluctant to do it," Kari says. Opposition from the DPJ's coalition partner, the Social Democratic Party, will scare Kan away from tackling arms exports, Yukari predicts. The prime minister is also understood to be reluctant to go down in history as the leader who opened the door to the international arms market, regardless of the manna that liberalization would be for the country's struggling defense industry. Yet the adoption of ‘dynamic defense', like the establishment of the MoD and other reforms before it, is a reminder that the Japanese defense establishment is walking a path of gradual but deliberate reform. The arms export ban is itself on this slow-moving conveyor belt; the time is just not politically ripe for it to be repealed. China's military revolution can make Japan's defense updates - circumscribed as they are by budget restrictions and political barriers - appear timid. Yet China is striving to become a blue-water power; Japan is not. And for a country that is only interested in defending itself, Japan has probably taken enough of a step forward with its new concept of cautious dynamism. 

The plan forces huge spending hikes and that kills the self defense force
Chanlett-Avery & Konishi, 2009 
[Emma, Specialist in Asian Affairs, Weston, Analyst in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” 7-23, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33740.pdf]

There is concern among U.S. officials that Japan will face severe budgetary constraints to fully implement the “2+2” plans. Japanese leaders are under pressure to stem government spending overall, and many ministries face budget cuts as part of ongoing fiscal reform. According to U.S. defense officials, Japan should expect to pay up to $20 billion for the realignment costs alone. Japan’s defense budget at $45 billion is the fifth-largest in the world after the United States ($421 billion), China ($63 billion), Russia ($62 billion) and the United Kingdom ($51 billion).18 Defense spending in Japan has traditionally been capped at 1% of GDP; most leaders are wary of surpassing that symbolic benchmark, although the cap is not a law. If costs of the realignment come from the defense budget, some analysts say that Japan’s military could face degraded capability because expensive equipment purchases will have to be forgone. In interviews, U.S. military officials have voiced concerns that the SDF ran the risk of becoming a “hollow force” because of its insufficient procurement system. Funding is also needed from the Japanese in order to increase the amount of joint training with U.S. forces. The government, especially if it is led by the DPJ, may be compelled to cut the amount of host nation support traditionally provided to the United States if the public perceives Japan to be contributing more actively to the alliance. Budget pressure is likely to remain high in Japan due to the demographic reality of an aging and shrinking population with a shortage of workers. 

The impact is peacekeeping and state failure
Council, 2010
[The Council on Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era, “Japan’s Visions for Future Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era: Toward a Peace-Creating Nation,” http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/shin-ampobouei2010/houkokusyo_e.pdf]

The phenomenon of failing states is not likely to disappear. Rather, states may remain in this condition over a long period. There are also concerns about fragile states becoming failed states. The SDF has been deployed overseas to participate not only in international peace cooperation missions, such as peacekeeping operations, but also to conduct humanitarian and reconstruction assistance in Iraq and other countries. A mandate given by a UN Security Council resolution is desirable, but not a prerequisite, for participation of the SDF in these missions. The SDF should be engaged in missions that can be carried out effectively and adequately in cooperation with regional agencies or specific countries, when necessary. In a decision-making on participation in a peacekeeping operation or other missions, Japan should take into full consideration various aspects, including not only the priority of engaging in more urgent tasks, but also other aspects such as whether it would provide an opportunity for the SDF to train troops and the merit of these missions in creating an environment for Japan to collect intelligence. Japan’s information capability can be enhanced through the accumulation of overseas mission experiences. 

That ensures nuclear war
African Studies Centre et al 2003 (The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf)

In the malign scenario of global developments the number of collapsed states would grow significantly. This would mean that several more countries in the world could not be held to account for respecting international agreements in various fields, be it commercial transactions, debt repayment, the possession and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of the national territory for criminal or terrorist activities. The increase in failed states would immediately lead to an increase in international migration, which could have a knock-on effect, first in neighbouring countries which, having similar politico-economic structures, could suffer increased destabilization and collapse as well. Developments in West Africa during the last decade may serve as an example. Increased international migration would, secondly, have serious implications for the Western world. In Europe it would put social relations between the population and immigrant communities under further pressure, polarizing politics. An increase in collapsed states would also endanger the security of Western states and societies. Health conditions could deteriorate as contagious diseases like Ebola or Sars would spread because of a lack of measures taken in collapsed areas. Weapons of mass destruction could come into the hands of various sorts of political entities, be they terrorist groups, political factions in control of part of a collapsed state or an aggressive political elite still in control of a national territory and intent on expansion. Not only North Korea springs to mind; one could very well imagine such states in (North) Africa. Since the multilateral system of control of such weapons would have ended in part because of the decision of the United States to try and check their spread through unilateral action - a system that would inherently be more unstable than a multilateral, negotiated regime - one could be faced with an arms race that would sooner or later result in the actual use of these weapons. In the malign scenario, relations between the US and Europe would also further deteriorate, in questions of a military nature as well as trade relations, thus undercutting any possible consensus on stemming the growth of collapsed states and the introduction of stable multilateral regimes towards matters like terrorism, nuclear weapons and international migration. Disagreement is already rife on a host of issues in these fields. At worst, even the Western members of the Westphalian system - especially those bordering on countries in the former Third World, i.e. the European states - could be faced with direct attacks on their national security. 

Turns case—Japanese military normalization key to relations and cred
Rapp, 2004 [William E., Brigadier General, graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University, “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf]

While the majority of Japanese would strongly prefer to make use of predominately soft power tools (such as economic assistance) to achieve their foreign policy goals, the recessionary woes of the last decade and dramatic changes in countries such as Indonesia and China have rendered those tools both less available and less effective. 34 Diet member and former Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa states that “the power of ODA is declining because the economies of China and the countries of SE Asia are developing successfully” and thus the ability of Japan to use ODA as a tool to shape development is less effective. 35 Japan continues to pursue, in a limited way, alternatives to ODA in the form of human security assistance (e.g., law enforcement assistance) and technical/legal assistance (e.g., monitoring of elections, nonvital technology sharing, and the drafting of legal codes), but the overall impact of these foreign policy tools so far has been minimal. 36 A potentially fruitful alternative for a Japanese contribution to world peace might lie in active work to reconstruct war-torn lands. Such nation-building partially bridges the gap between traditional economic diplomacy and full military participation overseas and is of increasing interest to the Japanese. In Afghanistan, Japan has taken the lead in organizing the “consolidation of peace” with money (over $450 million since Operation ENDURING FREEDOM began in October 2001), active diplomacy, and military logistics. 37 Although Japanese troops have yet to deploy into Afghanistan, three Maritime SDF vessels provide support to the American-led coalition there, and an MSDF transport ship brought Thai construction troops and equipment to the region. Similarly, the Foreign Ministry is attempting to radically change the character of ODA in the “consolidation of peace” in Sri Lanka. Instead of focusing solely on economic development, the $280 million in yen loans authorized in 2003 for this strife-torn country are now characterized as a “catalyst for building and consolidating peace. 38 The changing character of Japanese overseas “investment”?now in nation-building rather 16 than traditional economic development?represents a recognition of the decreased utility of traditional ODA diplomacy. Just as Japan has been disappointed with the rewards of economic diplomacy, the Japanese emphasis on international cooperative regimes to solve problems has also not been adequately rewarded in terms of national goal ful?llment. Although respect for the UN is far higher in Japan than in the United States, some members of the Diet express their disenchantment with that international organization. They feel that the failure to reform the Security Council structure so as to give Japan greater voice does not recognize the ?nancial backing Japan has given that body in past decades. 39 The Japanese contribution of nearly $1 billion per year is more than the combined contributions of France, Britain, Russia, and China. 40 The fear that a Chinese or Russian veto would prevent substantive action in the UN against North Korea similarly disheartens Japanese leaders. Seizaburo Sato noted that “[Japan] can only rely on the United Nations within the limits of what is agreeable to China.” 41 Because Japan does not hold a permanent UN Security Council (UNSC) seat, the Japanese have been left out of some important decisionmaking forums dealing with such matters as Middle Eastern and former Yugoslavian peace efforts. 42 Likewise, after reaching a high-water mark in 1994 with the Bogor Declaration on trade liberalization, the Asia-Paci?c Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum ?oundered in the Asian economic crisis of the mid-1990s and its resulting mercantilism. The inability of Koizumi to move forward on any Japanese initiatives at the October 2003 APEC forum in Bangkok further highlighted the Japanese failure to gain a distinct leadership role through trade and economics in East Asia. 43 The Kyoto Accords represent a similar disappointment as Japan became increasing disillusioned with its ability to achieve desired results through these fora. 44 Although the Japanese strongly desire multinational solutions to international problems and in October 2003 issued a tripartite declaration with Seoul and Beijing on security dialogue, they have come away from many such endeavors feeling unful?lled. The leg of the security triad stressing engagement with international institutions has not been as effective as Japan had 17 hoped it would be in shaping its future and providing for its safety. At the same time, the new security environment?best clari?ed by Washington’s declaration of war on terrorism45 ?has pushed more traditional tools of power, namely the limited use of military force, back into the limelight after a 50-year hiatus in Japan. 46 Given the external demands on Japan to be assertive in foreign policy to achieve national goals, military means offer viable and visible (although domestically distrusted) opportunities for Tokyo to balance out somewhat the more traditional foreign policy legs of the comprehensive security triad. In all likelihood, the movement toward this balance?-through increases in the capability and use of its military forces in noncombat support of UN resolutions?would have proceeded in a practiced, thoughtful, and extremely pedestrian manner throughout the 1990s. Had North Korea not test ?red its Taepodong-1 intermediate range ballistic missile over Japan in August 1998; had China not continued its double-digit, yearly increases in defense spending; had the Aum Shinrikyo and the Bali bombings not made the threat of terrorism salient to the Japanese; and had the North Koreans not resumed their nuclear brinkmanship, the shift toward a more active role for the military would not have accelerated at the pace we have witnessed in the last several years. In summary, the speed of change in Japanese security policy can be attributed most strongly to the perceived failings of economic diplomacy, 47 the increased saliency of the North Korean and terrorist threats, and a grudging recognition by Japanese politicians that, in order to gain a seat at the table where truly important international shaping decisions are made, Japan needed to be more active in international security undertakings. Japan’s political elites have reluctantly acknowledged that active, risk-taking participation in international shaping events?such as peacemaking operations or nonproliferation regimes?confers rights of participation upon Japan in the international decisionmaking processes. 48 Stung by the exclusion of Japan from the full-page listing in the New York Times, paid for by a thankful Kuwait in the late spring of 1991, Japan has been diligent in taking the steps necessary to be acknowledged as an active player in international undertakings. When Japan was again excluded (albeit inadvertently) 18 from a U.S. Defense Department fact sheet listing the participants in the war in Afghanistan, released by the Pentagon on February 26, 2002, the MoFA barraged the Department of Defense (DoD) with protests until the omission was recti?ed. It appears clear to Japan (and even to a reluctant American hegemon) that, in the future, multinational efforts, if only in the form of “coalitions of the willing,” will be the only viable means of effecting sustained change among the nations of the world. Gaining a voice in those highest of deliberations, therefore, becomes critical to Japan, whether this means a permanent seat on the UNSC or substantive power at G-8 conferences on security issues. 49 Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi recently expressed Japan’s frustration at not having a UNSC permanent seat. “It is neither desirable nor fair that countries that have been contributing to world peace and to UN ?nances have not been given a suf?cient chance to participate in the decisionmaking processes of the Security Council.” 50 If Japan wishes to shape the future strategic environment in ways that support her national objectives, and not simply submit to the course of international relations set out by those truly wielding such voice, then it must gain entry to the forums where those decisions are made. If the currency of power today has military might and substantive military participation among the primary denominations, then Japan may be wise to choose to enter these circles. 

This strategy solves the aff
Teslik, 2006 [Lee Hudson Teslik, senior editor at Roubini Global Economics, formerly worked as associate editor and economics writer for the website of the Council on Foreign Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, 4-13, http://www.cfr.org/publication/10439/japan_and_its_military.html]

Japan's SDF currently has more than 240,000 personnel—all technically civilians, in accordance with the 1954 law establishing the SDF. Its annual budget is nearly $50 billion, divided among land, sea, and air forces. Japan's navy is considered the most formidable of these three branches, and among the most sophisticated in the world. The air force, historically less powerful than the navy, is currently working with the United States to develop a Theatre Missile Defense system (TMD), and is also considering expanding its long-range precision missile technologies, should the LDP secure either legal approval or amend the constitution. But given their mandates, the SDF's naval and air forces have faced some significant constraints. For instance, the navy is not allowed to have nuclear submarines or aircraft carriers, which are considered "offensive weaponry." Some experts have also criticized the overall efficiency of the SDF, given a historical lack of coordination among its branches. "Ten or fifteen years ago, [the branches] couldn't even communicate with each other," says Masaru Tamamoto, an editor at The Japan Insititute of International Affairs. "An army without air cover is useless." A March 2006 bill has enabled the consolidation of oversight of these operations, marking the first organizational change to the SDF since it was founded. Experts say the bill is likely to increase the SDF's efficiency, and could also foreshadow a shifting of funds from ground forces to improved air and naval forces. The United States has long pressured Japan to take a more robust military posture. Though U.S. military bases in Japan serve a critical function for the United States—allowing it to project an image of strength in a potentially volatile region—American military resources are already spread thin worldwide, and U.S. officials have encouraged Japan pick up some of the slack, at least regionally. Developing this relationship could be essential to maintaining regional stability. As Chris Hughesput it in his recent book, Japan's Re-emergence as a 'Normal' Military Power, "the framework of a strengthened U.S.-Japan alliance will be crucial for the U.S. in terms of its ability to mobilize regional allies."

===2nc SDF cards=== 

Failed states outweigh on magnitude because they make interstate peace impossible, cause tons of knock on effects, and can’t be deterred by MAD model. They also outweigh on probability
Yoo 2005 – professor of law at UC Berkeley School of Law, visiting scholar at AEI (John, Northwestern University International Colloquium, “Failed states”, http://www.law.northwestern.edu/colloquium/international/Yoo.pdf, WEA)

Failed states pose perhaps the most dangerous threat to both American national security and international peace and stability. Failed states have served as the incubator of international terrorist groups, such as the al Qaeda organization that attacked the United States on September 11, 2001, or as trans-shipments points for illicit drugs, human trafficking, or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction technologies. In Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti, and the former Yugoslavia, failed states have produced the catastrophic human rights disasters. Since the end of World War II, far more lives have been lost due to internal wars than international armed conflicts, and many of the former have occurred in failed states. Military intervention in response, often led by the United States and its allies, incurs high costs in terms of money, material, and lives. Finding a comprehensive and effective solution to these challenges of terrorism, human rights violations, or poverty and lack of economic development requires some answers to the problem of failed states.

SDF solves alliance because it equalizes burdens and clues Japan into forums they like. Here’s good ev that this takes out the aff—
Rapp, 2004 [William E., Brigadier General, graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University, “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf]

Would these changes in the alliance be bene?cial to both the United States and Japan? As discussed in detail later, both countries would gain in the long term from a more balanced partnership in Northeast Asia. For Japan, a more symmetrical alliance would bring the country a greater voice in the shaping of security writ large in the region, a responsible outlet for its enhanced sense of national purpose and pride, and a way to achieve the goals it seeks in the 21st century. 5 As for America, relinquishing some measure of control within the alliance will result in a more sustainable grand strategy for maintaining positive in?uence within the region. Especially after the reuni?cation of Korea and the re-emergence of China, U.S. interests in East Asia will continue to be best served by a stronger and more viable alliance with Japan. 

Japan strengthening self defense posture is key to the alliance
Kuriyama, 2000 Takakazu, Fall, Advisor to the Japanese minister of foreign affairs and a visiting professor at Waseda University. "Challenges for Japan's Foreign Policy Future," Japan Review of International Affairs, p.218.

In closing I would like to touch on three issues that will be of critical importance to Japanese foreign policy in the twenty-first century. First is Japan's relationship with the United States. From the standpoint of market democracies and the Asia-Pacific, the two sets of foreign policy coordinates, it is evident that Japan's most important partner in the joint efforts to build a new international order will be the United States. In light of this, Japan will have to keep the strengthening of the bilateral relationship a prime goal of its policy. The major problem in Japan's relationship with the United States, however, lies in the wide gap between the respective influence of the two partners. It is difficult to maintain a healthy relationship with a country that wields great influence in every sphere. It is easy for such a relationship to become one of subservience, which leads to a psychological backlash in the mind of the junior partner, who wishes to become independent from its powerful counterpart. In Japan's case in particular, this is a constant danger, given the country's need to lean heavily on America for its security. (This need springs from the constraints placed on Japan by its history, a factor I will address shortly.) The best way to avoid this kind of anti- America backlash is for Japan itself to strengthen its diplomatic and soft power and pursue a more proactive posture. This will lead to a more equal relationship between Japan and the United States, a close partnership for building an international order.

SDF itself turns effectiveness of the alliance as well as the impact to integration
Council, 2010
[The Council on Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era, “Japan’s Visions for Future Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era: Toward a Peace-Creating Nation,” http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/shin-ampobouei2010/houkokusyo_e.pdf]

Developing SDF capabilities to participate even partially in a greater variety of military tasks and conduct joint operations with U.S. forces will lead to expanding the scope of information-sharing between Japan and the U.S. and deepening Japan’s involvement in the decision-making process on individual operations. If joint operation leads to improved performance as compared to unilateral U.S. operation, the effectiveness of the Japan-U.S. alliance will also increase, and have greater significance for the future of the alliance. Finally, in terms of developing the Japan-U.S. alliance globally, it is important for the SDF to broaden the range of missions it can operate under its own responsibility. It is often said that the SDF has heavily relied on other countries, especially the U.S., in various functions when conducting overseas operations such as PKOs. While it is rational to rely on the U.S. infrastructure for matters such as intelligence, Japan should also develop necessary capabilities to fulfill overseas missions by itself. 

Not having SDF turns backlash and resentment 
Rapp, 2004 [William E., Brigadier General, graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University, “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf]

Although the United States is the sole superpower in the world, it increasingly faces an objectives-means shortfall in attaining its global interests unilaterally. Sustaining its engagement in the far reaches of the world requires the partnership of capable, willing and like-minded states. In the Asia-Paci?c region, the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance will remain vital to achieving both countries’ national interests in the next 2 decades because of a lack of strategic options, though the commitment of both partners is likely to be sorely tested. Should conditions arise that give either the United States or Japan a viable alternative to advance stability and national interests, the alliance could be in doubt. Having depended on the United States for security for over 50 years, Japan is now actively trying to chart its new path for the future. Japan is in the midst of a fundamental reexamination of its security policy and its role in international relations that will have a dramatic impact on East Asia and the Paci?c. Within Japan, many see the traditional means of security policy as being out of balance and vulnerable in the post-Cold War environment. The triad of economic diplomacy, engagement with international organizations, and a minimalist military posture predicated on a capable selfdefense force with American guarantees of protection, heavily weighted toward economic diplomacy, is not seen by the Japanese to be adequately achieving the national interests and in?uence that country seeks. 

SDF key to protect Asian sea lanes – modernization key. 
Yomiuri Shimbun, 1-6-2011
[“SDF to give disaster relief skills to S.E. Asia,” http://news.asiaone.com/print/News/Latest%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20110106-256760.html]

The Defense Ministry plans to provide Southeast Asian nations with technical assistance in disaster relief, humanitarian support, antipiracy measures and other areas from next fiscal year, according to sources. The plan is aimed at stabilizing security in Southeast Asia by sharing expertise acquired by the Self-Defense Forces through domestic disaster relief and U.N. peacekeeping operations. Security stability in the region is important for the maintenance of Japan's shipping lanes. The ministry intends to set up an office in fiscal 2011 to handle the project. About 30 million yen has been allocated in the fiscal 2011 budget for the dispatch of SDF personnel to Southeast Asian nations, where they will instruct military personnel of those nations. The ministry already has received requests from Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam for training in land mine removal, antipiracy measures and disaster relief, respectively. The SDF contributes to the international community mainly through U.N. peacekeeping operations after natural disasters and during international conflicts. The SDF has engaged in technical assistance activities before, under bilateral agreements between Japan and the nations concerned. The National Defense Program Outline for fiscal 2011 and beyond, approved by the Cabinet in December, stipulates that SDF expertise be used to promote cooperative relations with nations in the Asia-Pacific region. The outline also calls for this country to establish and strengthen frameworks for regional cooperation on these issues, and help other nations in the region build up their own technical expertise. 

That’s key to the asian economy
Menon, 2001
[Rajan, Rathbone Prof. IR @ Lehigh and Academic Fellow @ Carnegie Corporation, National Interest, “Another Year of Living Dangerously?” Fall, L/N]

Indonesia may survive the combined assault of an ailing economy, deepening separatism, and a failing state. Such an outcome is certainly desirable, but it is not likely. American leaders must therefore brace for the possibility that Indonesia could still collapse in chaos and disintegrate in violence. Alternatively, the current instability could continue until economic recovery and political compromise give rise to a country of a rather different shape and size. With Wahid gone and Megawati in place, this is now somewhat more likely. Even the loss of Aceh and West Papua need not spell national disintegration; without such provinces Indonesia would still retain the critical mass to endure as a state. The second of these denouements is preferable to the first, but both will create strong shock waves. Indonesia's size and location are the reasons why. The three major straits that slice through it are pivotal passages for the global economy. Malacca is by far the most important, particularly for energy shipments. Some 450 vessels and about 10 million barrels of oil pass through daily, and East Asian demand, driven by China, is expected to rise from 12 million barrels a day in 2000 to over 20 million barrels in twenty years. Japan, China, Taiwan and South Korea would suffer severely and soon if fallout from turmoil in Aceh (at its northern end) or Riau (at its southern end) blocked this passage. Its narrowness, 1.5 miles in the Phillips Channel in the Singapore Strait, and ten miles between Singapore and the Riau archipelago, adds to the danger. The Lombok Strait, which ships use to sail to northeast Asia through the Strait of Makasar between Borneo and Sulawesi, is next in importance, although it handles a far smaller volume of traffic than Malacca and is of negligible importance for energy shipments. The Lombok-Makasar route is, however, a critical corridor for Australia's coal and iron ore exports to northeast Asia and for manufactured exports moving south from there. It is also the most likely detour were Malacca rendered impassable or hazardous. By comparison, Sunda is a minor shipping channel; the consequences of its closure would be minimal for transcontinental trade. Rerouting Malacca traffic through Lombok would strain the capacity of the world's merchant fleet, increase transportation costs, and create severe bottlenecks. The problems would be even worse if all three straits were unusable and ships had to transit northeast Asia by skirting Australia's northern coast. Market signals would eventually add other carrying capacity but the question is how quickly and smoothly the adjustment occurs, and what the economic and political consequences would be in the meantime. The ramifications of blocked or delayed maritime traffic, or even just panic over the possibility, would spread speedily throughout globalization's many circuits. Insurance rates would rise; coverage may even be denied if underwriters deem the risks excessive. The effects of obstructed energy, machinery and manufactured goods would register in capital markets, short-term investors would be scared off, and the flow of much-needed foreign direct investment into a region still convalescing from the blows of 1997 would slow. Piracy in the seas around Indonesia would also worsen if the Jakarta government either ceased functioning or were so busy holding the country together that it could not police its waters. The hijacking of ships has increased since Indonesia's upheavals began. There were 113 incidents in its waters in 1999 compared to 60 the year before, and between January and March of 2001 alone, pirates attacked ships in Indonesian waters 29 times and on nine occasions in the Malacca Strait. The vessels victimized near Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia included several oil tankers and ships carrying aluminum and palm oil. The three countries began to coordinate operations against the menace in 1992, and in 2000 Japan proposed that its coast guard join the effort along with China and South Korea. Yet how serious piracy becomes, and how effective any joint solution is, depends primarily on the extent of Indonesia's stability. 

SDF turns prolif
Szechenyi, 2006
[Nicholas, fellow and assistant director of the Office of the Japan Chair at CSIS, “A Turning Point for Japan’s Self-Defense Forces,” Autumn, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/06autumn/docs/06autumn_szechenyi.pdf]

The National Defense Program Guidelines (NDPG) released in December 2004 are the most recent effort on the part of the Japanese Defense Agency (JDA) to clarify a vision for the SDF’s future security and defense capabilities. The document cited various threats, such as ballistic missile and nuclear proliferation, international terrorism, and instability on the Korean peninsula, to demonstrate the need for new capabilities and justify the call for continued strategic dialogue with the United States. 3 In a February 2005 joint statement of the U.S.-Japan Security Consultative Committee (SCC), the two governments noted that Japan’s efforts to respond to new threats in the context of the U.S. global defense posture review underscored the need to pursue common strategic objectives both regionally and globally to preserve a peaceful security environment. Central to this process was “the need to continue examining the roles, missions, and capabilities of Japan’s Self Defense Forces and the U.S. Armed Forces required to respond effectively to diverse challenges in a well-coordinated manner.” 4 The joint statement also noted the importance of realigning the U.S. force posture in Japan to meet the demands of the post–September 11 security environment and to reduce the burden on local Japanese communities. Another evolution in the U.S. Japanese alliance and Japan’s security policy was underway. 

Turn—stronger SDF prevents Japan prolif. 
Rapp, 2004
[William E., Brigadier General, graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University, “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf]

Next, an enhanced relationship within the alliance may allay some of the Japanese fears of insecurity that may lead to a decision to “go nuclear.” Although the vast majority of Japanese citizens oppose the introduction of nuclear weapons to Japan, the topic is increasingly broached in the press and academic circles due to nuclear uncertainties in North Korea. The past 4 years have seen considerable change in the ability to discuss nuclear weapons. In October 1999, then Vice Minister of State for Defense Shingo Nishimura was forced to resign after suggesting in an interview that Japan should scrap its ban on nuclear weapons. Contrast this with the relatively benign February 2003 publishing by Asahi Shimbun of a previously classi?ed 1995 Defense Agency study on nuclear feasibility. 167 This highlights the increasing demise of the taboo on debates on nuclear weapons and the dependence on the American nuclear umbrella. The best way for the United States to maintain Japan as a non-nuclear power is to remain ?rmly engaged with Japan in the region and jointly enforce nonproliferation regimes so that Japan is not faced with a security dilemma seemingly solved only by a resort to nuclear weapons. 

The magnitude of the link is huge because minor overhead hikes devastate the SDF
Proceedings, 2010
[“Admiral Keiji Akahoshi—Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force,” Proceedings Magazine - March 2010 Vol. 136/3/1,285, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2010-03/admiral-keiji-akahoshi-japan-maritime-self-defense-force]

The global economic downturn greatly affected Japan, with growing public anxiety about the economy and social security. The Democratic Party of Japan was elected on a platform focused on improving the lives of Japanese and is now beginning to implement its policies. The government prioritized the Fiscal Year 2010 budget in accordance with these policies while at the same time reducing the costs of other programs and policies. Therefore, the defense budget became a matter of finance as much as it was security. Maintaining the current budget level has been difficult for some time. As a result, the global economic situation is having a strong affect on Japan's defense budget. Additionally, threats to international maritime security are now more complicated than ever, and the challenges Japan faces as a maritime nation are increasing. Our nation relies heavily on the sea lines of communication (SLOC) for its survival, and it is vital for us to ensure maritime security. To accomplish this, we need to ensure the security in the sea lines and surrounding areas while maximizing limited resources. This is true not only for Japan but also for many countries dependent on maritime trade. We need to cooperate with them to ensure the freedom of the sea. Three cornerstone principles have been identified for the way ahead to appropriately build up and operate the maritime defense capability necessary for sustaining our living and economic conditions as well as ensuring Japan's peace and security. First, it is important to enhance the interoperability between the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) and the U.S. Navy in support of the Japan-U.S. alliance. The JMSDF has contributed to ensure the security of Japan as well as stability of the region. Furthermore, we need to strengthen our relationship to develop more capable and effective responses to diverse contingencies. We will accomplish this by building a maritime defense capability that complements that of the U.S. Navy and improving interoperability through joint exercises and training. Second, we will cooperate with navies around the world. As Japan's economy is connected to the world through the sea lines of communication, it is impossible for the JMSDF to independently patrol all of those areas. In conjunction with other nations, the defense force will build a security environment in the SLOCs and surrounding areas throughout the world by enhancing friendships and conducting joint exercises and training. Finally, we must carefully prioritize and allocate limited resources. Because of finite material and human resources, the JMSDF needs to build an efficient and effective force structure based on our current capabilities and concentrating resources. As our force size and its range of operation are limited, we must maximize the efficiency of these resources through mission analysis. It is essential for us to ensure maritime security. The global economic downturn is significantly affecting the build-up of JMSDF's defense capability in terms of budget. To tackle this difficult situation, we sincerely hope that the JMSDF further strengthens ties with the U.S. Navy and reinforces cooperation with world navies that share common concerns. The JMSDF will contribute to ensure maritime security by further effective use of limited resources. 

The troops the plan removed would be redeployed to guam
Kan and Niksch, 2010 
[Shirley, Larry, specialist in Asian security affairs, spec. in Asian affairs, Congressional Research Service, Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments, p.1]

Since 2000, the U.S. military has been building up forward-deployed forces on the U.S. territory of Guam to increase deterrence and power projection for possible responses to crises and disasters, counter-terrorism, and contingencies in support of South Korea, Japan, the Philippines, Taiwan, or elsewhere in Asia. The defense buildup on Guam has been moderate. Nonetheless, China has concerns about the defense buildup, suspecting it to be directed against China. Guam’s role has increased with plans to withdraw some U.S. forces from Japan and South Korea. In 2006, the United States and Japan agreed on a “Roadmap” to strengthen their alliance, including a buildup on Guam to cost $10.3 billion, with Japan contributing 60%. The goals are to start the related construction on Guam by 2010 and to complete relocation of 8,000 marines and their 9,000 dependents from Okinawa to Guam by 2014. In February 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited Tokyo and signed the bilateral “Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Japan Concerning the Implementation of the Relocation of the III Marine Expeditionary Force Personnel and Their Dependents From Okinawa to Guam” that reaffirmed the “Roadmap” of May 1, 2006. The two governments agreed that of the estimated $10.27 billion cost of the facilities and infrastructure development for the relocation, Japan will provide $6.09 billion, including up to $2.8 billion in direct cash contributions (in FY2008 dollars). The United States committed to fund $3.18 billion plus about $1 billion for a road. However, on September 16, 2009, Yukio Hatoyama of the Democratic Party of Japan became Prime Minister. This political change raised a question about whether Japan would seek to renegotiate the agreement, even while the United States seeks its implementation. This dispute has implications for the relocation of marines from Okinawa to Guam. The National Defense Authorization Act for FY2010 (H.R. 2647, enacted as P.L. 111-84 on October 28, 2009) authorized the first substantial incremental funding for the relocation of marines from Okinawa to Guam, but conditioned upon the Defense Department’s submission to Congress of a Guam Master Plan. Among a number of provisions related to Guam in the legislation and conference report, Congress designated the Deputy Secretary of Defense to lead a Guam Executive Council and coordinate interagency efforts related to Guam. Congress also required a report on training, readiness, and movement requirements for Marine Forces Pacific, without an impact on the implementation of the U.S.-Japan agreement on relocation. 

Yes Guam shift
Potter, 2010 
[Matthew, Bnet, “U.S Military's Move From Japan To Guam Underway,” 1-13, http://www.bnet.com/blog/government/us-militarys-move-from-japan-to-guam-underway/4825 ]

The United States has based troops on Okinawa and in Japan since the end of World War II. The 3rd U.S. Marine Division and large amounts of air assets are based on the island seized in a bloody battle in April through June of 1945. The U.S. and Japanese governments have been negotiating for years to close the air base at Futenma and moving most of the troops off of the island. A new airbase will be built on Okinawa in a less built up area. In 2006 it was decided that the U.S. Territory of Guam would be the site chosen. Japan has long desired the removal of U.S. troops and proper integration of the island back into it. This is one of the largest changes to the U.S. military’s facilities and basing as part of the last round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Guam is already providing heavy support to U.S. operations in Afghanistan and Iraq by supporting fixed wing Air Force assets as well as transport flights. The plan is to expand the base to allow the 3rd Marines to be stationed their as well as increased support assets including a pier for aircraft carriers. Along with Marine and Navy assets an Army air defense organization will also be moved. All this will require new bases and facilities paid for by both the U.S. and Japanese governments. The building boom will be a big plus to the island’s economy although there are many in the Territory who are worried about the massive influx of new U.S. forces and their dependents. The new more liberal Government of Japan is also having second thoughts wanting further negotiations despite the U.S. holding firm on their commitment to the 2006 deal. They want perhaps a complete move of the air assets without building a new base. Many in Okinawa and Guam see massive environmental disruption and damage from the construction and moves no matter what the boon to the economy of the territory will be. The U.S. Navy announced this week despite the controversies that the first construction contracts using Japanese money were to be awarded. The $50 million contract with AHL Setiadi Gushiken Joint Venture LLC of Honolulu is for engineering support and architecture services that will begin the process of laying out and building the new facilities. Two actual projects were also executed with the Japanese funding to build a headquarters and fire station. The total amount expected to be contributed by Japan is over $6 billion with almost $3 billion in cash. There have been other arguments about the size of the population growth, lack of infrastructure and how the contracts will be divided up. Many of the companies will be from off island and utilize non-U.S. workers. There have also been disputes about the wages involved and whether they will be U.S. minimum, lower or union level. Obviously the higher the wages the greater the cost to the U.S. military but at the same time the workers must be treated fairly. This is one of the largest facility expansion in modern U.S. history. Only the construction of the permanent facilities in Iraq, Vietnam and Afghanistan in the last forty years come close. A total of almost 20,000 new residents will eventually be transferred to the island over several years. As Guam builds up Okinawa will wind down with a negative effect on that islands’ economy. This is a difficult process that politics only makes harder but to answer the wishes of Japan Guam will receive the good and bad of having a large U.S. military base built on it. 

This is the link – redeploying troops to guam would cost Japan money
Clark, 2010 [Gregory, Japan Times, 3-11, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100311gc.html]

Then there is the messy dispute over numbers and functions. Most also agree that there are too many U.S. troops based in Okinawa. In 2006, Japan and the U.S. prepared what they called a "Roadmap for Realignment," with Japan promising to pay $6.1 billion to cover much of the cost of moving 8,000 of the Okinawa-based marine troops to Guam by 2014. To satisfy the marine forces remaining in Okinawa it was proposed to build a new environment-destroying airport at Henoko in Nago Bay well to the north of Futenma. That construction is now on hold as Tokyo tries to deal with airport opponents. But the quota for the Okinawa-based marine force is only 18,000, and departures, mainly for service in Afghanistan, bring the total down heavily. So an expensive, locally opposed airport must be built just for those remaining after the 8,000 have moved to Guam? The Japanese Foreign Ministry says that it is mainly the marine command units that will be moved to Guam — that operational combat units will remain in Okinawa and will need the brand-new Henoko airport. But Japanese opponents of both the Henoko and Futenma airports say they have U.S. data that proves the Futenma-based operational units, including those noisy helicopters, were also supposed to move to Guam under the 2006 agreement. Yoichi Iha, mayor of long-suffering Ginowan, has visited military authorities in Guam and says he has confirmed the data. Now we also have a U.S. environmental impact report issued in November 2009 that lists three combat or training units as moving to Guam so that Guam can become the key U.S. military base in the western Pacific. So why the Tokyo bureaucratic insistence that the Futenma combat units have to remain in Guam until an alternative base is prepared, ideally at Henoko? The obfuscation continues. A Diet-based group of Okinawan and Social Democratic Party members has tried to follow up on Iha's claims. But Japanese defense and Foreign Ministry officials summoned to group discussions insist blandly that the midsize helicopters that the mayor has confirmed as moving to Guam will in fact come from the U.S. Iwakuni base in Yamaguchi Prefecture rather than Futenma. But the officials refuse to show the documents that the group demands as proof. As one member of the committee put it to me, the bureaucrats have yet to realize that a new government is in power. In theory, at least, Guam is where the Futenma marines should be based since their main task is training Southeast and South Asian defense forces, and Guam is better located for that. But both Tokyo and Washington now seem to insist that providing an alternative base — Henoko ideally — is a condition for closing that much-hated Futenma base. Maybe the need to supply troops and helicopters to Afghanistan has convinced them of Okinawa's advantages. For sticky fingers in the Japanese ministries involved, there is also the inviting prospect of being able to control the funds needed for a new base. For the U.S. military, a new base would be an attractive addition to its vast inventory of overseas bases since Okinawa offers a better lifestyle than isolated Guam. It also means access to the "sympathy budget" funds that Tokyo seems willing to keep on providing for U.S. bases in Japan. In effect Tokyo, which says it needs the bases for its security, is picking up the tab to train U.S. troops for service in Afghanistan. 

Japan pays for the plan. 
Meyer, 2009 
[Carlton, former Marine Corps officer, G2mil, “Outdated U.S. Military Bases in Japan, 2009, Accessed:6-25-10, http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm]

If they can stall for a couple of years, President Obama may lose interest, or possibly the 2012 election. If the President persists, the solution they devise will cost billions of dollars and a decade for new construction, environmental studies, and base clean ups. In reality, the U.S. military can implement this plan within two years because excess base capacity already exists. Since personnel are rotated every three years, it costs nothing to divert them elsewhere. The Japanese government would happily pay for any relocation and clean-up costs. Meanwhile, Americans are waiting to see if President Obama will show the courage to eliminate government waste by closing military bases "that have outlived their usefulness."

===1nc Political stability advantage=== 

We control uniqueness:

A) Domestic fear trumps domestic opposition, even among hardline protesters
Ivanov 2-9-2011, Andrei, Senior fellow at the Centre for East-Asian Studies at the Moscow Institute of International Relations “In terms of defense Japan relies on US” Moscow Times, The Voice of Russia http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/02/09/43559429.html nh)

Every time we have some incidents with the American military, the reaction of Japanese society was very sharp and there were some protests and demonstrations in Okinawa and other places. At the same time, the reaction of the Japanese government is not calm, but we should not let them be very sharp, since in terms of defense, Japan relies on the US. Tokyo must remember that they don’t have an easy and calm neighborhood - North Korea and China for instance. Both the Japanese government and society look at them with some fear. The Japanese army is rather strong now, but the country does not think that Japan can defend itself against China or even against a North Korean missile strike. So, Japan has to rely on the United States; they need its military help. In this case, the reaction of the Japanese government to various incidents with the American military has to be rather calm. About a year ago - maybe one and a half year ago - the government of Mr. Hatoyama tried to remove a US base from Okinawa. It was not the idea of Mr. Hatoyama himself, but he was under constant pressure of political alliances. The Democratic Party, which won the 2009 September election, asked the government to resolve the issue concerning the US base on Okinawa. This problem is rather acute and sensitive for the Japanese society and people living on Okinawa in particular. On the one hand, many of them worked at the base and got their wages from the Americans, but on the other hand many others opposed to the presence of this base and always demanded that the government resolve the issue and remove the base from their territory. Upon his becoming the prime minister of Japan, former leader of the Democratic Party Mr. Hatoyama had to fulfill the promises he made during his election campaign. Indeed, he tries to remove the base. But the American resistance was too strong that Mr. Hatoyama eventually had to retire. The current leaders of the ruling Democratic Party decided better not to deal with this issue and postpone the decision. This may have been induced by an incident with Chinese fishermen who sailed their boats to some Japanese islands in the summer of 2010 (you know that China claims some of Japan’s islands). That incident revealed severe problems between Japan and China and the former should not therefore conflict with the US. As for the Japanese society, of course they are indignant but even ordinary citizens understand that they rely on the United States. They resigned themselves to the existence of military bases owned by America, which, in its turn, provides certain defense to Japan

B) No governance crisis or kickout
Jeffrey Hornung, Center for Security Studies Asia-Pacific Associate Professor, 12/23/10, “Kan’s Way Forward on Futenma,” http://csis.org/files/publication/101223_Hornung_KanWayForward_JapanPlatform.pdf, access 1/9/11

The reelection of Governor Hirokazu Nakaima in the Okinawa gubernatorial election has intensified the myopic focus on the relocation of the U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma as the measure by which to gauge the health of U.S.-Japan relations. Governor Nakaima, once a supporter of relocation within Okinawa, promised during the election to seek Futenma’s relocation to somewhere out of the prefecture. This contradicts Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s commitment to implementing a May agreement with the United States to relocate Futenma’s operations to Cape Henoko in Nago in northern Okinawa. Because the United States has no intention to modify its Okinawa base consolidation plans, which hinge on Futenma’s relocation, Kan faces the challenge of having to broker an agreement that will satisfy both Naha and Washington. This requires adept political leadership that can make difficult choices. While Kan’s plummeting support limits his ability to exercise such leadership, there is an opportunity for success. 
The Way Forward 
Since Naoto Kan became premier in June, he has repeatedly emphasized his commitment to implement the Futenma relocation agreement first brokered in 2006 and reconfirmed this past May. This means he is convinced of the deterrent capability of the U.S. Marines in Okinawa and will not seek alternative proposals that aim to build the Futenma replacement facility elsewhere. Having chosen to push forward with the existing agreement, Prime Minister Kan’s challenge is showing political acumen to get Governor Nakaima to accept it. Below is one possible suggested set of priorities for the prime minister to pursue. 
1. Begin immediate dialogue with Okinawans, but be prepared to move ahead without them. 
Prime Minister Kan promised that he would listen to the concerns of the local communities affected by Futenma’s relocation. His problem is that some of these communities do not share his enthusiasm for implementing the existing agreement. Not only does Mayor Susumu Inamine of Nago staunchly oppose relocation, but like-minded candidates won a majority of seats in September’s city assembly election. Additionally, following the gubernatorial election, a Kyodo News exit poll found that 68.9 percent of Okinawa voters opposed Futenma relocation to Cape Henoko. Understanding that he may be resisted, Kan nevertheless needs to visit Okinawa as often as possible to engage in a concerted dialogue with the people. Accepting that he may not greatly change their minds, he must explain why he believes relocating the Marines out of Okinawa is impossible in light of deterrence and regional stability. 
Surprisingly, Prime Minister Kan may find resonance to his message given indications that there is some retraction in anti- base sentiment. Not only are there reports of significant numbers of people who support the relocation for economic purposes, the fact is that in the election Governor Nakaima beat a vocal opponent of relocation. In Nago, which one year ago elected a critic of relocation and recently a majority of candidates to the municipal assembly, Nakaima won by 2,173 votes. This is larger than the 1,588-vote margin of Mayor Inamine over former mayor Yoshikazu Shimabukuro. Although this retraction appears related to Inamine’s refusal to accept U.S. military realignment-related subsidies, which affect the financial management of municipal government, it indicates a potential opportunity for Kan to communicate his message. 
Prime Minister Kan should not view a few visits as being sufficient. He and Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara recently met with Governor Nakaima, which is a good start. But the prime minister needs to meet with local citizens and must clearly explain why he accepts the existing agreement, as well as his long-term vision on how to reduce Okinawa’s burden. He must avoid simply repeating the benefits of moving Futenma out of Ginowan, as this logic is already understood and will fail to convince anyone of why the Cape Henoko plan is best. Kan should also set a low bar by which to gauge success at obtaining local consent. This can be as simple as a bump in polls or the acquiescence of a certain portion of the local community, such as business. Regardless of the measurement, Kan should pursue implementation even if he fails to convince the majority of the local communities. Okinawa public support is highly desirable, but it is not indispensible or legally required. Given his commitment to the bilateral agreement, as politically unappealing as it may be, Kan must override local concern if, after all his efforts, Okinawans still oppose. 
2. Push the United States within the scope of the existing plan. 
Because Governor Nakaima won by promising to reduce Okinawa’s burden, he will not respond to talks with Tokyo unless changes are offered. Prime Minister Kan needs to convince the United States to reduce its presence in Okinawa in some capacity as early as possible to facilitate a compromise. His challenge is doing so without contesting the 2006 agreement. One option is the permanent transfer of a Marine command element to mainland Japan. Not only is it not necessary to have command elements and subordinate units located together, it could also simplify the eventual move to Guam by reducing the number of units having to move. It has the added benefit of offering two possible implementation strategies. If transferred to a Japanese base, the allies could improve their interoperability. If transferred to a U.S. base, the move could occur relatively quickly by taking advantage of existing housing. In either case, the symbolic nature of having the Marines remain in Japan, while simultaneously reducing the U.S. presence in Okinawa, could be claimed a win by all sides. Another option is for Kan to suggest relocating some training exercises to other areas in Japan. To do so, he would need to offer a location to the United States, such as an island where field carrier landing practice could be conducted. While not a means to reduce the Marine presence on Okinawa, it would help reduce training activity. 
Prime Minister Kan needs to convince the United States that reducing its presence as early as possible is in its best interest. The United States recognizes the risk posed by Futenma and wants to move forward on relocating its functions to a new facility. Tangible progress on a replacement facility will trigger the process of reducing the number of Marines on Okinawa. If Kan cannot persuade Nakaima, then Futenma cannot close as early as all would like, the Marines cannot begin their move to Guam, and Okinawa base consolidation cannot move forward. This is the worst scenario for Tokyo, Washington, and Naha. Given that it is in the U.S. interest to avoid this situation, it should not be terribly difficult for Kan to make Washington recognize that the political situation in Okinawa requires some compromise. 
3. Open dialogue with Governor Nakaima on economic development. 
After obtaining some means from the United States by which to reduce Okinawa’s burden, Prime Minister Kan needs to deal squarely with Governor Nakaima. This is critical given that Kan is legally bound by Nakaima’s permission. The current relocation agreement stipulates land reclamation from the sea. Under the Public Water Body Reclamation Law, land reclamation requires permission from the governor. As such, the only way for Kan to succeed in implementing the agreement is to persuade Nakaima. He needs to proceed along two fronts. 
The first is reducing Okinawa’s burden of U.S. forces. Governor Nakaima recognizes that the purpose of U.S. forces in Okinawa is for the security of Japan and the stability of the Asia-Pacific region. However, as evident in his campaign, he wants to reduce their presence. By working with the United States to help Nakaima deliver his campaign pledge, Kan will demonstrate his understanding of the problems identified by Nakaima and his commitment to addressing them. With a concrete proposal in hand, the prime minister will then be able to help the governor claim success in fulfilling this campaign promise. 
As important as the Futenma relocation issue was in the election, Governor Nakaima’s primary goal has consistently been Okinawa’s economic development. Okinawa is a poor prefecture in need of investment. While he cannot bribe the governor to accept relocation in exchange for financial handouts, the prime minister needs to offer a significant economic development package to Naha. It would be advantageous for Kan to convene the government’s Okinawa Policy Council to discuss economic stimulus measures that provide tangible benefits for the people of Okinawa, not just construction companies. Kan has some leverage because the government’s current special measures law for Okinawa development will expire in March 2012. It is in Nakaima’s interest to work with Kan so as to ensure continuing subsidies, especially since a lump-sum grants system will be introduced in fiscal year 2011 that allows local governments to decide for themselves how to use government subsidies. If Kan can craft a sweet enough package that provides Nakaima with a mix of preferential tax treatment and much-needed resources, as well as a legal structure to promote the active use of the land vacated by U.S. forces, he would present a hanamichi (gift) by which Nakaima can grudgingly accept Futenma’s relocation. 
Chances for Success 
None of this will happen quickly. Due to the bungling of the issue by Prime Minister Kan’s predecessor, there is a high level of distrust between the people of Okinawa and Governor Nakaima on one hand and the central government on the other. Some semblance of trust needs to be regained before moving forward. This means the current impasse will likely continue well into next year. 
Importantly, alliance managers must resist the temptation to tie Futenma’s resolution to the joint declaration on deepening the alliance scheduled for spring when the prime minister visits the United States. Futenma is one aspect of the alliance, and a minor one at that. Because both countries are cooperating in a wide variety of areas regionally and globally, the focus needs to be on how to package their cooperation under a new framework of shared strategic goals and areas of responsibilities. This is the key to deepening the alliance. While Futenma is an issue that requires attention, it is foolish to believe that failure to resolve it by spring will undermine the strength of the alliance. 

C) Multiple recent concessions solve opposition to Futenma 
Japan Times 1-26-2011 (“Edano briefs panel on shifting F-15 drills to Guam”, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20110126a5.html)

"We would like to firmly pursue the transfer of the drills, reduce the noise level and take measures to prevent accidents (related to the bases)," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano, who is concurrently Okinawa affairs minister, said at the outset of the panel's meeting at the Prime Minister's Official Residence. The panel was created to look into alleviating the prefecture's burden from the concentrated presence of U.S. bases and is under the framework of a government panel discussing broader policy on Okinawa. Touching on the bilateral accord on relocating some F-15 drills from the U.S. Kadena Air Base in Okinawa to Guam, Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa told a news conference after the meeting that the drills will also involve U.S. aircraft from Misawa Air Base in Aomori Prefecture and Iwakuni Air Base in Yamaguchi Prefecture. He said he briefed the panel about another bilateral accord on the early return of the U.S. Marine Corps Gimbaru training area in the Okinawa town of Kin, as well as a bilateral working group studying the shared use of facilities between the U.S. military and the Self-Defense Forces. "I believe (Okinawa) will certainly feel that these measures bore fruit," Kitazawa said. After their meeting, Okinawa Gov. Hirokazu Nakaima told reporters, "We welcome the government's posture but we can't see the outcome yet until after we implement (the measures)." The prefecture also called on the central government to take measures to remove dangers posed to residents near the bases. While the government is taking steps to alleviate Okinawa's base-hosting burden, it has reiterated it will stick with a May accord on relocating U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma within the prefecture. Many Okinawa residents are opposed to the relocation and wants the base out of the prefecture. The government briefed a panel Tuesday about an accord between Japan and the United States on the transfer of drills involving Okinawa-based F-15 fighters to Guam as part of efforts to ease the base-hosting burden on the prefecture. 

Japan prolif won’t trigger a regional arms race or collapse the NPT.
White, 2008 
[Hugh, Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University, 7/17. “A nuclear Japan: The least bad option?” The Lowy Interpreter, http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/A-nuclear-Japan-The-least-bad-option.aspx]

But in a world with nuclear weapons, a key aim of strategic policy is to stop them being used. We therefore have to put very high priority on reducing the risks of conflict between nuclear powers, and to reduce the risks of escalation to a nuclear exchange if they do go to war. And this leads to some very tough choices. At times, the imperative for fewer nuclear weapons in fewer hands must be weighed against the imperative to build an international order and a military balance which stabilises the international order and makes the use of these weapons less likely. We might find that the risks of nuclear war in Asia would be lower if Japan had nuclear weapons than if it did not. Second, more specifically, I am not sure that a Japanese nuclear capability would automatically ignite a new wave of proliferation. Developing nuclear weapons is a big step for anyone. Who among the non-nuclear states would find their strategic situation so profoundly altered by a Japanese nuclear capability that they would feel impelled to take this step? The most likely, of course, is South Korea. But if, like me, you are a inclined to doubt that North Korea will surrender its weapons, and that an eventual unified Korea is therefore like to be a nuclear power anyway, then this horse may already be out of the stable. Beyond Northeast Asia, I think flow-on proliferation effects are much less likely: would Australia, or Indonesia, be more likely to seek nuclear weapons because Japan had them? Thirdly, we might ask whether the non-proliferation regime could survive by adapting to accommodate a nuclear-armed Japan. Is this unthinkable? Surely not, when serious thought is being given to accommodating India as a nuclear-armed country. Two other quick points. First, Crispin suggests that Japan does not need nuclear weapons because it has formidable conventional forces. Japan’s forces – especially air and naval forces — are strong, and I am sure they will get stronger. But they will not provide Japan with a capacity to deter nuclear attack from any of its three nuclear-armed near neighbours. It is worth making the point that the only legitimate purpose for a Japanese nuclear capability would be to provide an independent minimal deterrent of nuclear attack on its own territory. But it seems only nuclear weapons can do that. 

No political instability, and no impact
Newman 2-15-11 Glenn, professor of law at the University of Illinois College of Law, where he teaches a course on Japanese law. attorney and former long-term resident of — and frequent business traveler to — Japan. “Japan, be confident! Glenn Newman offers some reasons to be hopeful about Japan's long-term prospects” Japan Times, Japan news cite, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20110215zg.html nh)

4. Civility and public order Japanese people are civil, follow the rules and crave order. This makes for an uncommonly stable and safe society. Contrast, for example, public reactions in Japan and China to the recent Senkaku Islands incident. In China, unruly protesters took to the streets in large, occasionally violent demonstrations, which left in their wake not insignificant property damage to Japanese businesses. The emotions of many Japanese were also inflamed at this time, but there were no violent outbreaks against China worth mentioning. Government officials should do more to forcefully pitch Japan's stability and adherence to the rule of law when seeking foreign investment. Japanese may feel uncomfortable with self-promotion of this sort, but the point needs to be made and any such qualms should be put aside.

If their uniqueness claim were true they wouldn’t be able to solve fast enough
Tatsumi, 2010 [Yuki, oilprice.com, “Political Instability in Japan and it’s Implications for the US-Japan Alliance,” 7-28, http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Asia/Political-Instability-in-Japan-and-its-Implications-for-the-US-Japan-Alliance.html]

The ruling party's inability to gain a single-party majority in the Upper House means that political instability in Tokyo will continue at least until the next election, unlikely to be held for years. In the House of Councillors (Upper House) election on July 11, the ruling Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) suffered a defeat. Missing the goal set by Prime Minister Kan Naoto, the DPJ gained only 44 seats. The party's inability to gain a single-party majority in the Upper House means that political instability in Tokyo will continue at least until the next House of Representatives (Lower House) election, which is unlikely to be held until the summer of 2013. US alliance managers must be prepared to deal with a partner that is unable to make difficult decisions for the foreseeable future. Less than two weeks after the ballot, Kan and his government are already hamstrung by the election result. Kan's ratings continue to slip: polls taken by Nihon Hoso Kyokai (NHK) between July 17-20 show his public approval rating is 39 percent. Opinion polls by Yomiuri Shimbun and Kyodo News following the July 11 election show similar results. Criticism of the DPJ leadership continues to mount within the party, creating a divide within the DPJ. The DPJ defeat is bad news for Japan. First and foremost, it means that Kan's ability to lead will be weakened. In his June 11 policy speech to the Diet, Kan vowed to press forward on a wide range of reform that his predecessor began. He also proposed that his government will work to achieve (1) a strong economy, (2) strong national finances, and (3) reliable social security. He even reached out to the opposition to begin discussions across party lines on how to balance Japan's deficit-heavy national finances, including raising the consumption tax. But the DPJ's weak election performance means it will be extremely difficult for Kan to pursue this agenda. In the last four years, Japan has seen four weak prime ministers, each serving barely a year. Another politically weakened prime minister is the last thing Japan needs. The poor election result also puts Kan in a weak position within his party. Kan is serving out Hatoyama Yukio's term as DPJ president. To solidify his influence within the party, Kan will have to be re-elected president in the September DPJ election. The election outcome has weakened Kan's position going into the election, encouraging Ozawa Ichiro, the most powerful politician in the DPJ who was forced to resign with Hatoyama in June, and his followers to challenge Kan in the September ballot. This is not the political environment in which Kan can take on an ambitious policy agenda for Japan.

Won’t escalate to war
Trenin, 10 – director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, (Dmitri, Russia-Japan: Politics vs. Strategy, 11/3, http://carnegie-mec.org/publications/?fa=41908)

The diplomatic crisis between Moscow and Tokyo over the Southern Kuril Islands confirms the old truth that Russian-Japanese political relations remain stuck at a dead end. But a new element has also emerged: while once only Japanese politicians used the island issue to pursue their domestic political objectives, now President Dmitry Medvedev is doing the same as he eyes the 2012 election.
The current crisis is unlikely to have any serious economic consequences. Of course, Japan could decide to stop importing energy resources from Russia, but this would go against Tokyo’s general line of diversifying its energy sources. Theoretically, the Japanese government could also advise Japanese companies to end their business in Russia, but this would do little to help pull Japanese business out of the recession. Japan isn’t providing Russia with state development aid and, as for Japanese humanitarian aid for the Kuril Islands’ residents, Moscow politely turned down the offer last year.
Both capitals were quick to declare that the latest crisis would not affect Medvedev’s participation in the November APEC summit in Yokohama, where he may even meet with Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan. The only “victims” of the crisis so far have been Japanese Ambassador to Moscow Masaharu Kono, who was recalled “for consultations,” and Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, whose visit to Japan was called off. 
Relations will probably return to their previous state soon, at least until Medvedev’s next visit to the Kurils or until the next sharply worded declaration or abrupt movement on the Japanese side. The only conclusion now is that the “islands of contention” have become a political card actively played by both sides in their efforts to win over domestic voters.

No chance of Japanese nuclearization
Maehara 1-25-11, Seiji, Japan’s minister for foreign affairs, “Maehara Outlines Japan's Diplomacy: Prioritize Nuclear Projects With Arabs”, PanOrientNews.com, East Asian security news site, http://www.panorientnews.com/en/news.php?k=709 nh)

With regard to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, in order to promote steady implementation of the agreement at the 2010 NPT Review Conference, Japan will advance the activities of the 'Foreign Ministers' Meeting on Disarmament and Non-Proliferation' launched last year, and will lead discussions in the international community, with an aim to realize 'a world without nuclear weapons' by reducing nuclear risk. Toward next year's Nuclear Security Summit, we will reinforce cooperation with the ROK, the host, and the U.S. to advance concrete measures.

===2nc Presence popular=== 

Everyone changed their mind. Deal with it
Feldman 1-27-2011 (Robert Alan, PHD, Morgan Stanley, “Ten Contradictions: Policy Paralyzed through April at Least”, http://www.morganstanley.com/views/gef/)

After a long and difficult negotiation, the DPJ agreed with the US that Okinawa is the only practical location for certain defense activities, and that moving facilities to Henoko is the best alternative. This issue has taken added importance in light of the role of a strong US-Japan alliance after recent incidents in the Senkaku Islands and the Korean peninsula. Public opinion in Japan and opinion inside the DPJ has tilted towards a clearer support of the US-Japan alliance, strengthening the need of the DPJ to implement this solution.

These threat perceptions outweigh basing concerns—we have surveys
Green 2011 (Michael, CSIS/Georgetown University, “US-Japan Relations: Tempering Expectations”, Comparative Connections A Quarterly E-Journal on East Asian Bilateral Relations, January 2011, http://csis.org/files/publication/1004qus_japan.pdf)

Prime Minister Kan Naoto opened the quarter with a speech promising a government that would deliver on domestic and foreign policy, but public opinion polls indicated he was failing on both fronts, damaging his own approval rating and that of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ). The US and Japanese governments continued a pattern of coordination at senior levels and North Korea’s bombardment of Yeonpyeong Island on Nov. 23 furthered trilateral diplomacy with South Korea and exchanges among the three militaries. President Obama met with Kan on the margins of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leader’s Meeting in Yokohama to take stock of the relationship, though a once-anticipated joint declaration on the alliance did not materialize and the optics of the meeting appeared designed to lower expectations as the Futenma relocation issue remained unresolved. A bilateral public opinion survey on US-Japan relations released at the end of the quarter captured the current dynamic accurately with Futenma contributing to less sanguine views but convergence in threat perception and an appreciation for the role of the alliance in maintaining regional security as encouraging signs for the future.

Rare earth ban
Crowell 11-8-2010 (Todd, “Japan as punching bag”, Asia Sentinel, http://asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2805&Itemid=176)

Meanwhile, it is fair to say that Beijing's ambiguous threat to embargo rare earths, on which it currently enjoys a near monopoly, has severely shaken Japan's business community and punctured the complacent idea that the large and growing economic ties between Japan and China would somehow trump diplomacy in any future crisis. As the usually pro-China business daily the Nikkei opined: "Now is the time for Japanese business to extricate itself from excessive reliance on China in order to be protected from the ‘China risk' of unexpected and unfathomable regulations."

Cheonan incident
EWC 9/10 East-West Center ’10 Sept. 10 ( http://www.eurasiareview.com/201009108080/post-cheonan-northeast-asia-poses-policy-challenges-for-us.html)

With a rising China, a destabilizing North Korea and a politically shifting Japan, Northeast Asia poses some big challenges for U.S. policymakers, two former National Security Council officials said recently at an informal briefing at the East-West Center. But some of the Obama administration’s biggest policy hurdles related to the region may actually lie at home, they said, such as securing congressional approval on critical trade agreements. During the informal session with journalists and EWC officials, Victor Cha, now director of Asian studies at Georgetown University and Michael Green, associate professor at Georgetown and the Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, discussed evolving security, economic and social concerns in the region. Both held National Security Council staff positions in the George W. Bush administration. They were in Honolulu working on research projects as EWC visiting fellows. During the discussion, East-West Center President Charles E. Morrison noted that Northeast Asia is an area “where we have a nuclear proliferation threat in North Korea; where we have an emerging power, China, whose economy may surpass that of the United States in the coming decades; and where we have a traditional ally, Japan, that is going through some very difficult leadership and political challenges.” Green said the March sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan in what a multinational investigation team concluded was a North Korean torpedo attack sent a shockwave of effects through the entire region. For example, he said, the implications of the attack contributed to the recent leadership change in Japan, and caused some factions there to reconsider their criticism of the U.S. military presence in the country. The abrupt resignation of short-lived Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama was only the latest twist in the seemingly ever-changing Japanese leadership saga that has made it harder for the U.S. to maintain a strong strategic relationship there, he said.

===1nc Kadena advantage=== 

No kickout—even if they win uniqueness
Feffer 2010 – co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies (6/24, John, FPIF, “Right-wing Loonies Support Okinawa Base Relocation”, http://www.fpif.org/blog/right-wing_loonies_support_okinawa_base_relocation?q=Tag%3Ainternet, WEA)

This was a curious string of half-truths and misrepresentations. Only the first sentence is correct. There is indeed a heated debate. But it’s not about expelling the U.S. military from Japan. It’s very specifically about the building of a new U.S. base in Okinawa to replace the Futenma facility. The campaign focused very narrowly on preventing this new base – not on closing other U.S. bases on Okinawa much less U.S. bases elsewhere in Japan. The Japanese media has actively reported on this narrow campaign, not on the imaginary campaign to expel the U.S. military from Japan.

The plan results in total pullout
Feffer 10, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, ’10 (John, Mar. 6, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html, twm)

Wherever the US military puts down its foot overseas, movements have sprung up to protest the military, social, and environmental consequences of its military bases. This anti-base movement has notched some successes, such as the shut-down of a US navy facility in Vieques, Puerto Rico, in 2003. In the Pacific, too, the movement has made its mark. On the heels of the eruption of Mt Pinatubo, democracy activists in the Philippines successfully closed down the ash-covered Clark Air Force Base and Subic Bay Naval Station in 1991-1992. Later, South Korean activists managed to win closure of the huge Yongsan facility in downtown Seoul. Of course, these were only partial victories. Washington subsequently negotiated a Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines, whereby the US military has redeployed troops and equipment to the island, and replaced Korea's Yongsan base with a new one in nearby Pyeongtaek. But these not-in-my-backyard (NIMBY) victories were significant enough to help edge the Pentagon toward the adoption of a military doctrine that emphasizes mobility over position. The US military now relies on "strategic flexibility" and "rapid response" both to counter unexpected threats and to deal with allied fickleness. The Hatoyama government may indeed learn to say no to Washington over the Okinawa bases. Evidently considering this a likelihood, former deputy secretary of state and former US ambassador to Japan Richard Armitage has said that the United States "had better have a plan B". But the victory for the anti-base movement will still be only partial. US forces will remain in Japan, and especially Okinawa, and Tokyo will undoubtedly continue to pay for their maintenance. Buoyed by even this partial victory, however, NIMBY movements are likely to grow in Japan and across the region, focusing on other Okinawa bases, bases on the Japanese mainland, and elsewhere in the Pacific, including Guam. Indeed, protests are already building in Guam against the projected expansion of Andersen Air Force Base and Naval Base Guam to accommodate those Marines from Okinawa. And this strikes terror in the hearts of Pentagon planners. In World War II, the United States employed an island-hopping strategy to move ever closer to the Japanese mainland. Okinawa was the last island and last major battle of that campaign, and more people died during the fighting there than in the subsequent atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined: 12,000 US troops, more than 100,000 Japanese soldiers, and perhaps 100,000 Okinawan civilians. This historical experience has stiffened the pacifist resolve of Okinawans. The current battle over Okinawa again pits the United States against Japan, again with the Okinawans as victims. But there is a good chance that the Okinawans, like the Na'vi in that great NIMBY film Avatar, will win this time. A victory in closing Futenma and preventing the construction of a new base might be the first step in a potential reverse island hop. NIMBY movements may someday finally push the US military out of Japan and off Okinawa. It's not likely to be a smooth process, nor is it likely to happen any time soon. But the kanji (a form of Japanese writing) is on the wall. Even if the Yankees don't know what the Japanese characters mean, they can at least tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing.

Other bases check
Fontaine 11/24/2010 [Scott—staff writer for the Air Force Times, “Schwartz: AF ready to respond to Korea attack”, http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2010/11/air-force-schwartz-ready-to-respond-to-korea-attack-112410w/, accessed November 24, 2010, ZR]

The Air Force stands ready to respond if hostilities between North Korea and South Korea escalate, the service’s top uniformed officer said, but American fighter jets remained at their normal alert status a day after a North Korean artillery attack.
The North fired artillery shells at the island of Yeonpyeong on Tuesday, killing two people and dramatically raising tensions between American-allied South Korea and the nuclear-armed north.
Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norton Schwartz, in a meeting with reporters later that morning, said his service has plenty of firepower in the region and listed the bases from which the service could send planes for a response: Osan Air Base and Kunsan Air Base in South Korea, Kadena Air Base on Okinawa, bases on mainland Japan and bases in the Pacific.

No China scenario
Rosecrance and Qingguo 2010 – *political science professor at Cal and senior fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, former director of the Burkle Center for International Relations at UCLA, **PhD from Cornell, Professor and Associate Dean of the School of International Studies of Peking University (Jia Qingguo and Richard Rosecrance, Global Asia, 4.4, “Delicately Poised: Are China and the US Heading for Conflict?”, http://www.globalasia.org/l.php?c=e251, WEA)

Will China and the US Go to War? 
If one accepts the previous analysis, the answer is “no,” or at least not likely. Why? 
First, despite its revolutionary past, China has gradually accepted the US-led world order and become a status quo power. It has joined most of the important inter-governmental international organizations. It has subscribed to most of the important international laws and regimes. It has not only accepted the current world order, it has become a strong supporter and defender of it. China has repeatedly argued that the authority of the United Nations and international law should be respected in the handling of international security crises. China has become an ardent advocate of multilateralism in managing international problems. And China has repeatedly defended the principle of free trade in the global effort to fight the current economic crisis, despite efforts by some countries, including the US, to resort to protectionism. To be sure, there are some aspects of the US world order that China does not like and wants to reform. However, it wishes to improve that world order rather than to destroy it. 
Second, China has clearly rejected the option of territorial expansion. It argues that territorial expansion is both immoral and counterproductive: immoral because it is imperialistic and counterproductive because it does not advance one’s interests. China’s behavior shows that instead of trying to expand its territories, it has been trying to settle its border disputes through negotiation. Through persistent efforts, China has concluded quite a number of border agreements in recent years. As a result, most of its land borders are now clearly drawn and marked under agreements with its neighbors. In addition, China is engaging in negotiations to resolve its remaining border disputes and making arrangements for peaceful settlement of disputed islands and territorial waters. Finally, even on the question of Taiwan, which China believes is an indisputable part of its territory, it has adopted a policy of peaceful reunification. A country that handles territorial issues in such a manner is by no means expansionist. 
Third, China has relied on trade and investment for national welfare and prestige, instead of military conquest. And like the US, Japan and Germany, China has been very successful in this regard. In fact, so successful that it really sees no other option than to continue on this path to prosperity. 
Finally, after years of reforms, China increasingly finds itself sharing certain basic values with the US, such as a commitment to the free market, rule of law, human rights and democracy. Of course, there are still significant differences in terms of how China understands and practices these values. However, at a conceptual level, Beijing agrees that these are good values that it should strive to realize in practice. 
A Different World 
It is also important to note that certain changes in international relations since the end of World War II have made the peaceful rise of a great power more likely. To begin with, the emergence of nuclear weapons has drastically reduced the usefulness of war as a way to settle great power rivalry. By now, all great powers either have nuclear weapons or are under a nuclear umbrella. If the objective of great power rivalry is to enhance one’s interests or prestige, the sheer destructiveness of nuclear weapons means that these goals can no longer be achieved through military confrontation. Under these circumstances, countries have to find other ways to accommodate each other — something that China and the US have been doing and are likely to continue to do. 
Also, globalization has made it easier for great powers to increase their national welfare and prestige through international trade and investment rather than territorial expansion. In conducting its foreign relations, the US relied more on trade and investment than territorial expansion during its rise, while Japan and Germany relied almost exclusively on international trade and investment. China, too, has found that its interests are best served by adopting the same approach. 
Finally, the development of relative pacifism in the industrialized world, and indeed throughout the world since World War II, has discouraged any country from engaging in territorial expansion. There is less and less popular support for using force to address even legitimate concerns on the part of nation states. Against this background, efforts to engage in territorial expansion are likely to rally international resistance and condemnation. 
Given all this, is the rise of China likely to lead to territorial expansion and war with the US? The answer is no. 

===1nc Kan good advantage=== 

Alt causes to tech

A) Global labor markets
1AC Author Bloch 97 (Erich, National Research Council, Maximizing U.S. Interests in Science and Technology Relations with Japan, Committee on Japan Framework Statement and Report of the Competitiveness Task Force, National Research Council, ghs-ef)

Finally, some of the positive and negative lessons of the U.S. experience in competing and cooperating with Japan can be utilized in relationships with emerging techno-industrial powers, particularly in Asia. A number of the issues arising in relations with some Asian countries are similar to those encountered in the relationship with Japan, such as difficulties in protecting intellectual property, and strong public-private partnerships aimed at maximizing inward technology flow. The potential for negative impact on U.S. interests from possible anticompetitive Japanese business practices, withholding technology, U.S. dependence on Japanese dual-use components and equipment for military systems, and Japanese ownership of U.S. high-technology assets, appears to have diminished in recent years. This is due to a combination of factors, including the resurgence of some U.S. companies and the entry of new competitors. As technological capability becomes more global and the international division of labor in high-technology products becomes more complex, it is very possible that potentially harmful concentrations of high-technology production and capability will emerge in Japan or in other countries in the future. In order to minimize the risks of negative impacts on U.S. interests, it will be necessary to continue efforts within the World Trade Organization and other bodies to promote open markets and transparent competition policies on a global basis.

B) Japanese protectionism
1AC Author Bloch 97 (Erich, National Research Council, Maximizing U.S. Interests in Science and Technology Relations with Japan, Committee on Japan Framework Statement and Report of the Competitiveness Task Force, National Research Council, ghs-ef)

Finally, there is room for improvement in the Japanese government approach to providing access to science and technology information. Although much science and technology information is available, a great deal of information related to trade and other issues that can affect science and technology cooperation remains difficult to access. The U.S. government should continue to press Japanese government and companies to make certain categories of information, particularly laws, regulations, administrative guidance, and other policy-relevant documents, available to the Japanese and international public, preferably electronically.

Kan support high now
Abraham 2-11-11, David, Mr. Abraham is a Hitachi international affairs fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and previously worked as a sovereign analyst at Lehman Brothers. “Reviving Japan Can Prime Minister Naoto Kan reopen the world's third largest economy to competition?” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704132204576135680778755452.html nh)

Late last month in Davos, Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan proclaimed 2011 to be the "third opening of Japan." It was an attempt to equate his agenda to the great waves of transformation that swept the country in the mid-19th century and in the years after World War II. That will sound hyperbolic to anyone familiar with economically moribund, politically fragmented Japan. But his aspirations should not be dismissed out of hand. Mr. Kan's statement might at first seem unduly optimistic given recent history. Japan's leaders are prone to big statements and slow action. For instance, under pressure from trading partners to promote domestic consumption in 1986, a group led by Bank of Japan President Haruo Maekawa produced a strategy to reduce the country's dependence on export growth at the behest of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone. Implementing that strategy proceeded slowly though. More recent still, even a popular and unconventional politician like Junichiro Koizumi struggled to implement lasting reforms during his tenure from 2001-06. Yet despite the normal headwinds and Mr. Kan's own relative inexperience as a leader, the current prime minister has managed to push forward some substantive changes. That includes progress toward passage of a five-percentage-point cut in the top corporate tax rate, which currently stands at 40%, and various incentives for small businesses and foreign investors. The tax cuts are part of a multi-year strategy to reduce rates in stages to competitive levels of 25% to 30%, if bureaucrats at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry have their way. The incentives for foreign direct investment—extending preferential tax rates for certain global companies willing to open headquarters or research centers in Japan and tax deferments for executive stock options—are the first direct moves specifically favoring international investors. The recent changes are no cure-all for Japan's woes. Corporate taxes at 35% will still be high compared to South Korea's at 24% and Singapore's at 17%. The investment-promotion bill has some shortcomings, including retaining the need for unnecessary bureaucratic certification of investment plans. The focus on attracting global firms misses opportunities to support the small- and medium-sized local companies that ought to be growth drivers. It would be a mistake, however, to make the perfect the enemy of the good. Despite those specific shortcomings, Mr. Kan is showing that he understands Japan has a competitiveness problem, and that he has at least some capacity to address it. The clearest and most significant example of that is Mr. Kan's aggressive support for Japan's participation in negotiations for a Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal that would include the U.S. and many of Japan's Asian trading partners. Although negotiations are ongoing and Japan hasn't formally entered talks yet, the stated goal is a deal that would not only ease the flow of goods among the parties but also would clarify investment and competition policies across signatory nations. That would involve, for instance, opening government procurement to foreign firms. It could also tear down barriers to foreign investment. This could be a key way to pry open Japan's restrictive environment for mergers and acquisitions and private equity, while promoting better corporate governance. Indeed, merely discussing TPP is already having an effect in spurring Japanese to question certain long-held views about the economy. Eyes are opening to the potential fiscal benefits of boosting competition and foreign investment, given that about two-thirds of Japanese companies currently are so unprofitable they pay no taxes. Others are speculating that opening to foreign firms and creating new channels for foreign capital to finance Japanese start-ups could lead to greater female workforce participation. The debate over TPP also is sparking a debate about Japanese domestic politics. Japanese companies are intrigued by the possibilities for greater market access abroad that TPP would bring. Yet farmers, who make up less than 3% of the population, have disproportionate political sway to block a deal thanks to quirks in how parliamentary representation is apportioned. Agricultural protectionism has long been a barrier to trade progress in Japan, and Mr. Kan's advocacy for TPP is starting to cast a spotlight on the issue. People are noticing that nearby Korea overcame its own farm lobby to push forward with trade deals with the U.S. and the European Union—deals that could give Koreans better access to those markets than the Japanese currently enjoy. No doubt Mr. Kan still has a tough sell to make on TPP, despite the early positive murmurs. But his tax and regulatory policies suggest he's serious about addressing Japan's malaise. And the fact that he has restarted trade talks with Australia, and possibly the EU, also augurs well. Those deals might be easier to pitch domestically since they would be less comprehensive and, therefore, less threatening. But signing them would build political momentum for TPP. Mr. Kan probably overpromised when he described all this as a "third opening." It's unlikely we're in for any changes quite that dramatic. But he's starting the right debates and making the right kind of progress. With deft politicking and some luck, he might accomplish more than many have thought possible.

===1nc Advantage CP=== 

TEXT: The United States federal government should:
--cancel all plans to remove its forces from Japan.
--promote co-location of Japanese and United States forces wherever possible within Okinawa, and allow the Japanese government to conduct environmental compliance inspections
--offer Japan support for Okinawa’s economy, including energy efficiency, renewable energy, and smart grid technology assistance, and adopt a strategy of anticipatory public engagement through the Japan-US Educational Foundation
--implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability as quickly as possible aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.

These specific basing concessions will get the public on board
Cronin et al, 10 - Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program
at the Center for a New American Security. (Patrick, “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, October, 
http://cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf)

The United States should take additional measures to defuse local tensions stemming from the presence of American troops in Japan. It can encourage support for American bases (or at least reduce resentment) by granting local Japanese governments the right to conduct environmental inspections of American military facilities, an idea broached in a joint statement issued by the U.S.-Japan Security Consultative Committee in May 2010.72 “Reasonable access” on environmental matters is something local governments in Japan currently desire, and a right that governments of individual U.S. states exercise over federal property, including military bases.
Whenever feasible, U.S. military bases should be co-located with Japanese bases to ease local concerns. Co-location has already occurred in Yokota with the groundbreaking establishment of a bilateral joint operations and coordination center.73 As the JSDF makes use of facilities traditionally limited to the U.S. military, an increasing number of “American” bases will fly Japanese flags, easing sovereignty concerns. Co-locating bases not only carries political advantages; it also contributes to greater interoperability between the U.S. military and the JSDF.74
Engaging in public outreach, offering “reasonable access" to American military facilities and even co-locating bases will not remedy the challenges that exist on Okinawa. The U.S. footprint there will remain intrusive – American facilities cover almost 20 percent of the island.75 Plus, while U.S. bases on Okinawa create jobs, the island ranks as the poorest of Japan’s 47 prefectures, adding to the level of preexisting frustration.76
Although tensions on Okinawa will never fully dissipate so long as intrusive military bases remain there, the United States and Japan can mitigate popular frustration by renewing long-dormant efforts to revitalize Okinawa’s economy. The two governments should scale up an experimental “smart grid” in Okinawa into a “green Okinawa” initiative.77 This would entail investing further to improve the island’s energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable power sources such as solar and wind. A “green Okinawa” initiative could ultimately transform the island, boosting local economic growth and creating jobs.78

Partial restructuring is enough to solve
Chaffin 10/5/2010 – Foreign Policy in Focus (Greg, FPIF, “Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance, WEA)

In the meantime, the status quo holds. The United States does not feel that Japan is adequately capable of filling the operational void that would be left were it to withdraw key forces from Okinawa. As a result, Washington has pressured Tokyo into accepting the 2006 realignment agreement as a transitional phase while the United States reduces its capabilities and Japan enhances its own. In Japan, meanwhile, the strongest voices in Japanese politics call for a continued U.S. military presence in order to ensure Japanese security, at least until Japan is able to more fully take on responsibility for its own security. Furthermore, Japanese concerns over the rise of China as well their unpredictable nuclear-armed neighbor, North Korea, have strengthened the domestic case for remaining close to the United States while pursuing indigenous defense capabilities within the context of the security alliance.
For the short term, the United States should make every attempt at limiting the local impact of Air Station Futenma. This could mean placing limits on the number and intensity of training exercises conducted out of Futenma as well as holding more open dialogue with members of the local community in order to answer their concerns. 
For the long term the U.S. and Japan must re-examine the realignment agreement to discern whether Japan could take over some of the responsibilities of the III Marine Expeditionary Force. The United States would be able to remove some of the more controversial elements of its forces in Okinawa while maintaining its commitment to extended deterrence through other U.S. military installations in Japan, as well as throught the 7th Fleet, the 5th Air Force, and the U.S. nuclear umbrella. By restoring sovereignty to the Japanese, the United States can make a significant gesture of its good intentions. Restoring Japanese sovereignty will also allow the people of Okinawa better avenues to voice their concerns, which they currently lack, as well as engage in the democratic process. 

Their 1ac author concludes in favor
Ennis 10, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html)

It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes. Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals. Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The Obama administration shows no signs of seeing the issue this way, however, which unfortunately sets the stage down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo. 

Seabasing obviates the need for the aff
Houck in ‘5
(Lt. Colonel Dale, USMC, “USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT SEABASING: A CRITICAL ENABLER OF THE JOINT EXPEDITIONARY FORCE”, 3-18, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil224.pdf)

Sea basing is an operational concept that will enable naval and joint forces to meet future challenges posed by adaptive, asymmetric adversaries, maturing technologies and anti-access strategies. At the heart of the concept are “afloat bases,” where forces, their logistics and other support reside in a secure, networked and flexible environment, supported by improved sealift capability for the joint force.1 Sea basing has attracted increased attention recently: for instance, the Defense Science Board Task Force on Sea Basing called the Joint Sea Base a “critical future joint military capability” for the United States, highlighted the importance of sea basing as a force projection means, and recommended applying new resources towards achievement.2 Does this operational concept truly have strategic significance or is it merely the next logical extension of expeditionary maneuver warfare? Does it possess the capability to influence non-state actors once deterrence, diplomacy and coercion have failed? While the concepts underlying sea basing are evolving, its political-military influence on the National Security Strategy and potential ramifications for U.S. diplomacy are not as evident. This paper will analyze and evaluate whether this concept will have relevance in supporting our national security strategy and the political-military implications that must be addressed if it is to be successful. U.S. SECURITY POSTURE; POST 9/11 The post-Cold War era has provided the U.S. a glimpse of the future political and security challenges. Our adversaries, which can be nation-states or non-state actors, have become increasingly creative, adaptive and lethal and we can expect them to employ anti-access strategies. Second, more and more often our interests do not seem to match those of our friends and allies. Many of our allies are now less dependent on us for security, although we seem to be more dependent on them for intelligence and cooperation in the global war on terrorism. As a result, there seems to be a dramatic increase in anti-Americanism, antiglobalization, and anti-U.S. presence throughout the world and particularly in the third world. 2 Consequently, we must be concerned that allies and friends will not grant the U.S. rights to access its territory when needed. For example, during Operation Allied Force in 1998, Greece denied the Marine Corps use of a port for a Maritime Prepositioning Force (MPF) operation because the facility was responsible for one third of Greek international trade. Similarly, during Operation Iraqi Freedom, the U.S. was denied permission by NATO ally Turkey for transit rights into Iraq. Turkey refused to grant one-time, short-duration access through its territory, despite the offer of $6 billion and loan guarantees worth even more from the U.S. government.3 This is about the same amount that the Marine Corps will pay for all three of its Maritime Prepositioning Force Future (MFP(F)) squadrons, essential to the future of sea basing4 and highlights the need for a capability to overcome anti-access scenarios. The United States depends on its military to provide forward presence, project power when needed and defeat an adversary when necessary. America is less likely to face nationstates on the battlefield with armies or fleets and more likely to be menaced by embittered failed states or non-state actors who possess weapons of mass destruction or catastrophic technologies, and are less susceptible to traditional means of deterrence.5 This changing world environment requires the armed forces to innovate and experiment with new approaches to warfare that will ultimately provide the President with a wider range of military options to discourage aggression or any form of coercion against the United States, our allies, and our friends.6 For this reason, the military must possess the capability to ensure U.S. access to distant theaters when needed, to do so quickly, and to provide a robust deterrence mechanism that can remain postured until the crisis is resolved or until its military capability is required. ARC OF INSTABILITY Of particular concern is the “arc of instability,” extending from the Western Hemisphere, through Africa and the Middle East to Asia, which serves as breeding grounds for threats to U.S. interests.7 Non-state actors within this area, who are politically unconstrained and have the will and means to disrupt national order, are less susceptible to traditional means of deterrence and also more likely to seek to counter U.S. power projection capabilities by creating anti-access environments in these areas.8 These same adversaries are also more likely to target large civilian populations, economic centers and symbolic locations, most of which are located along the world’s littorals.


The anticipatory public engagement plank will sway the Japanese public
Cronin et al, 10 - Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program
at the Center for a New American Security. (Patrick, “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, October, 
http://cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf)

The Japanese public’s support for the alliance is essential for its long-term viability. Polling in Japan shows general support for the alliance running at close to 80 percent, with rates of support virtually uniform across all age cohorts and both genders.69 Critically, however, frustration with the alliance is bubbling up in localities that host U.S. bases – most prominently, Okinawa. The U.S. and Japanese governments must address this frustration; otherwise, controversies such as that surrounding the relocation of Futenma will torpedo efforts to advance the alliance. As a starting point, leaders in Washington and Tokyo need to articulate unequivocally the enduring value of military bases in Japan. Although both governments retain the right to consider changes to the shape of U.S. forces in Japan, they should make abundantly clear that a long-term military presence is a core value of the alliance. Moreover, the same spirit of frank cooperation that helps to resolve basing issues should also infuse the process for managing other issues related to burden sharing, including the perennial debate over the level of host-nation support Japan provides to the U.S. military.
To solidify national public support for the alliance, the United States and Japan should also engage in anticipatory public engagement. One way to do so is to educate members of the Japanese media about the value of the alliance. In Japan, journalists play a vital role in shaping popular views of the alliance. Yet for the most part, they lack real expertise on security issues, resulting in commentary on the alliance that often emphasizes points of discord rather than the alliance’s contributions to the defense of Japan, regional stability and the upkeep of a liberal international order. To create a cadre of security experts inside the Japanese media, Washington and Tokyo should send Japanese journalists to American think tanks or other policy-oriented organizations for intensive training in regional studies and strategic studies. This program could be established under an existing organization such as the Japan-U.S. Educational Commission (Fulbright Japan) or the congressionallysupported Asia Foundation.70




==Religion Negative== 

===1nc Religion Bad Disadvantage=== 

Our counter interpretation of morality and meaning is through the lens of secular humanism. There are several net benefits:

1) Humanist ethics allow us to make moral decisions while tolerating diversity. Human reason is the basis of ethical action. 
Kurtz, 04 (Free Inquiry, Professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo), Volume 21, Number 3. Paul, http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php). 
We are told by the critics of secular humanist morality that, without belief in God, immorality would engulf us. This position is held by many conservative, even centrist, political leaders today. They say that society needs a religious framework to maintain the general order. But they are, I submit, profoundly mistaken. What they overlook is the fact that humanist ethics is so deeply ingrained in human culture that even religious conservatives accept many (if not all) of its ethical premises-though, like Molière's Bourgeois Gentilhomme, who was surprised when he was told that he spoke and wrote in prose, many people will be equally surprised to discover this May I point out five aspects of humanist morality that are widely accepted today. Humanist ethics is not some recent invention; it has deep roots in world civilization, and it can be found in the great thinkers, from Aristotle and Confucius to Spinoza, Adam Smith, Mill, and Dewey. What are these philosophers saying? First, that the pursuit of happiness-eudaimonia, as the Greeks called it-is a basic goal of ethical life, both for the individual and society. This point of view came into prominence during the Renaissance; it is expressed in the Declaration of Independence, and indeed in virtually every modern democratic system of ethics. People may dispute about the meaning of happiness, but nonetheless most humanists say that the good life involves satisfying and pleasurable experience, creative actualization, and human realization. We wish a full life in which the fruits of our labor contribute to a meaningful existence. We recognize that religious believers want salvation in the next world, but few today would want unhappiness in this life. A second principle is the recognition that each person has equal dignity and value, and that he or she ought to be considered as an end and not a mere means. This doctrine was implicit in the American and French democratic revolutions; it was used to overthrow slavery and hierarchical societies, and it is appealed to in order to eliminate racial, ethnic, religious, and sexual discrimination. A third value of humanism is the ideal of moral freedom. Humanists defend free societies that allow wide latitude for individuals to express their own needs, desires, interests, goals, and their diverse visions of the good life, however idiosyncratic they may be. Nevertheless, humanist ethics emphasizes the higher intellectual, moral, and æsthetic values, and it focuses on moral growth and development as essential to happiness. Fourth, this implies that we tolerate the diversity of values and principles in different individuals and groups in society. We need not necessarily accept different lifestyles; we simply allow them to co-exist. Moral freedom does not necessarily mean license or corruption; it does not mean a libertine style of life; for there is concern not only with freedom but with virtue. It does not condone the fleshpot, the shallow or egotistical individual; for even while humanist morality maintains that individuals should be allowed to pursue their own ends without repression, it asks that they learn to behave responsibly, that they cultivate the common moral decencies, and that their behavior be considerate of the needs of others. That means that they will develop an appreciation for the basic shared moral virtues of a civilized community-truth, sincerity, integrity, fairness, empathy, etc. This presupposes the development of moral character in the young; for self-control and an altruistic regard for others are essential for the full flowering of the individual. Fifth, humanist ethics focuses on human reason as the basis of ethical choice. This is insufficiently understood by dogmatic religionists who fail to appreciate the fact that there are often difficult choices to be made in life; though we may share principles and values, we need to recognize that society is undergoing rapid change and that new moral problems may emerge. Often we must choose between the lesser of two evils or the greater of two goods, not between good and evil. Thus there are the classical moral dilemmas that all individuals in society encounter, in which competing values and principles contend. Humanists maintain that in such situations ethical inquiry ought to be emphasized, and that a reflective moral intelligence-aware of one's own interests and values and also of the needs and interests of others-should seek to negotiate differences and work out compromises. Humanists believe that science and technology, if used wisely, can help us to improve human life and contribute to the common welfare. Thus, in our view, ethical rationality is essential for moral growth and development.

2) Humanism is key to solving crises—humans can only confront problems if they accept responsibility for their own destinies. 
Kurtz, 04 (Free Inquiry, Professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo), Volume 21, Number 3. Paul, http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php). 
Democratic secular humanism is too important for human civilization to abandon. Reasonable persons will surely recognize its profound contributions to human welfare. We are nevertheless surrounded by doomsday prophets of disaster, always wishing to turn the clock back - they are anti science, anti freedom, anti human. In contrast, the secular humanistic outlook is basically melioristic, looking forward with hope rather than backward with despair. We are committed to extending the ideals of reason, freedom, individual and collective opportunity, and democracy throughout the world community. The problems that humankind will face in the future, as in the past, will no doubt be complex and difficult. However, if it is to prevail, it can only do so by enlisting resourcefulness and courage. Secular humanism places trust in human intelligence rather than in divine guidance. Skeptical of theories of redemption, damnation, and reincarnation, secular humanists attempt to approach the human situation in realistic terms: human beings are responsible for their own destinies. We believe that it is possible to bring about a more humane world, one based upon the methods of reason and the principles of tolerance, compromise, and the negotiations of difference.

3) Life has intrinsic value and meaning—and, we are more likely to take that seriously on Earth if we alone are responsible towards that life. 
Kurtz, 04 (Free Inquiry, Professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo), Volume 21, Number 3. Paul, http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php). 
If "God is dead," as Nietzsche proclaimed at the beginning of the twentieth century, then at the dawn of the twenty-first century we must affirm that "humans are alive." The power of the humanist message is that life itself is intrinsically worthwhile, that we aspire to achieve the best of which we are capable, including the expression of our highest talents and creative excellences, that we cultivate the common moral decencies, that our goal is exuberant happiness. To achieve all this we need to develop a just social order for our own society, regionally, and on the planetary scale. We humans are responsible for our own destiny: "No deity will save us; we must save ourselves" (Humanist Manifesto II).

4) Religious dogmatism is the root cause of genocide. And, religious societies fare worse in every UN index—from infant mortality to women’s rights. 
Harris, 04 ( Author, Free Inquiry magazine, Volume 24, Number 6.Paul, The Myth of Secular Moral Chaos, Sam Harris, http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php). 
One cannot criticize religious dogmatism for long without encountering the following claim, advanced as though it were a self-evident fact of nature: there is no secular basis for morality. Raping and killing children can only really be wrong, the thinking goes, if there is a God who says it is. Otherwise, right and wrong would be mere matters of social construction, and any society would be at liberty to decide that raping and killing children is actually a wholesome form of family fun. In the absence of God, John Wayne Gacy could be a better person than Albert Schweitzer, if only more people agreed with him. It is simply amazing how widespread this fear of secular moral chaos is, given how many misconceptions about morality and human nature are required to set it whirling in a person’s brain. There is undoubtedly much to be said against the spurious linkage between faith and morality, but the following three points should suffice.1. If a book like the Bible were the only reliable blueprint for human decency that we had, it would be impossible (both practically and logically) to criticize it in moral terms. But it is extraordinarily easy to criticize the morality one finds in the Bible, as most of it is simply odious and incompatible with a civil society. ... People of faith regularly allege that atheism is responsible for some of the most appalling crimes of the twentieth century. Are atheists really less moral than believers? While it is true that the regimes of Hitler, Stalin, Mao, and Pol Pot were irreligious to varying degrees, they were not especially rational. In fact, their public pronouncements were little more than litanies of delusion—delusions about race, economics, national identity, the march of history, or the moral dangers of intellectualism. In many respects, religion was directly culpable even here. Consider the Holocaust: the anti-Semitism that built the Nazi crematoria brick by brick was a direct inheritance from medieval Christianity. For centuries, Christian Europeans had viewed the Jews as the worst species of heretics and attributed every societal ill to their continued presence among the faithful. ... According to the United Nations’ Human Development Report (2005), the most atheistic societies—countries like Norway, Iceland, Australia, Canada, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium, Japan, the Netherlands, Denmark, and the United Kingdom—are actually the healthiest, as indicated by measures of life expectancy, adult literacy, per-capita income, educational attainment, gender equality, homicide rate, and infant mortality. Conversely, the fifty nations now ranked lowest by the UN in terms of human development are unwaveringly religious. Of course, correlational data of this sort do not resolve questions of causality—belief in God may lead to societal dysfunction, societal dysfunction may foster a belief in God, each factor may enable the other, or both may spring from some deeper source of mischief. Leaving aside the issue of cause and effect, these facts prove that atheism is perfectly compatible with the basic aspirations of a civil society; they also prove, conclusively, that religious faith does nothing to ensure a society’s health.

5) Dogmatic religion has killed billions – a secular society is key to avoid nuclear war and extinction.
Harris ‘05
(Sam, Graduate in Philosophy from Stanford and Bestselling Author, “The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason”, p. 25-28)
Our world is fast succumbing to the activities of men and women who would stake the future of our species on beliefs that should not survive an elementary school education. That so many of us are still dying on account of ancient myths is as bewildering as it is horrible, and our own attachment to these myths, whether moderate or extreme, has kept us silent in the face of developments that could ultimately destroy us. Indeed, religion is as much a living spring of violence today as it was at any time in the past. The recent conflicts in Palestine (Jews v. Muslims), the Balkans (Orthodox Serbians v. Catholic Croatians; Orthodox Serbians v. Bosnian and Albanian Muslims), Northern Ireland (Protestants v. Catholics), Kashmir (Muslims v. Hindus), Sudan (Muslims v. Christians and animists), Nigeria (Muslims v. Christians), Ethiopia and Eritrea (Muslims v. Christians), Sri Lanka (Sinhalese Buddhists v. Tamil Hindus), Indonesia (Muslims v. Timorese Christians), and the Caucasus (Orthodox Russians v. Chechen Muslims; Muslim Azerbaijanis v. Catholic and Orthodox Armenians) are merely a few cases in point. In these places religion has been the explicit cause of literally millions of deaths in the last ten years. These events should strike us like psychological experiments run amok, for that is what they are. Give people divergent, irreconcilable, and untestable notions about what happens after death, and then oblige them to live together with limited resources. The result is just what we see: an unending cycle of murder and cease-fire. If history reveals any categorical truth, it is that an insufficient taste for evidence regularly brings out the worst in us. Add weapons of mass destruction to this diabolical clockwork, and you have found a recipe for the fall of civilization. What can be said of the nuclear brinkmanship between India and Pakistan if their divergent religious beliefs are to be "respected"? There is nothing for religious pluralists to criticize but each country's poor diplomacy—while, in truth, the entire conflict is born of an irrational embrace of myth. Over one million people died in the orgy of religious killing that attended the partitioning of India and Pakistan. The two countries have since fought three official wars, suffered a continuous bloodletting at their shared border, and are now poised to exterminate one another with nuclear weapons simply because they disagree about "facts" that are every bit as fanciful as the names of Santa's reindeer. And their discourse is such that they are capable of mustering a suicidal level of enthusiasm for these subjects without evidence. Their conflict is only nominally about land, because their incompatible claims upon the territory of Kashmir are a direct consequence of their religious differences. Indeed, the only reason India and Pakistan are different countries is that the beliefs of Islam cannot be reconciled with those of Hinduism. From the point of view of Islam, it would be scarcely possible to conceive a way of scandalizing Allah that is not perpetrated, each morning, by some observant Hindu. The "land" these people are actually fighting over is not to be found in this world. When will we realize that the concessions we have made to faith in our political discourse have prevented us from even speaking about, much less uprooting, the most prolific source of violence in our history? Mothers were skewered on swords as their children watched. Young women were stripped and raped in broad daylight, then ... set on fire. A pregnant woman's belly was slit open, her fetus raised skyward on the tip of sword and then tossed onto one of the fires that blazed across the city.8 This is not an account of the Middle Ages, nor is it a tale from Middle Earth. This is our world. The cause of this behavior was not economic, it was not racial, and it was not political. The above passage describes the violence that erupted between Hindus and Muslims in India in the winter of 2002. The only difference between these groups consists in what they believe about God. Over one thousand people died in this monthlong series of riots—nearly half as many as have died in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in more than a decade. And these are tiny numbers, considering the possibilities. A nuclear war between India and Pakistan seems almost inevitable, given what most Indians and Pakistanis believe about the afterlife. Arundhati Roy has said that Western concern over this situation is just a matter of white imperialists believing that "blacks cannot be trusted with the Bomb."9 This is a grotesque charge. One might argue that no group of people can quite be "trusted" with the bomb, but to ignore the destabilizing role that religion plays on the subcontinent is both reckless and disingenuous. We can only hope that the forces of secularism and rationality will keep the missiles in their silos for a while yet, until the deeper reasons for this conflict can be finally addressed.

===1nc God frontline=== 

Science directly refutes the existence of God – probability and logic dictate God is unnecessary at best to explain the world. 
Joshi, ’97 (S.T., Literary Critic, “Atheism: A Reader”).

It has become fashionable to declare that there is, in fact, no conflict between science and religion. If that is so, it is only because most people fail to recognize the degree to which the advance of knowledge has completely overthrown the central tenets of religion—in other words, the degree to which this conflict has become a rout. In this sense, contemporary fundamentalists are actually more sensible than their "liberal" theological counterparts in regarding science as a direct threat to their beliefs. In our day religious criticism has centered upon the theory of evolution and the big bang theory. We need take little notice of those devout fundamentalists who assert that, because these theories are contrary to the Bible, therefore they must be false: all we can do against such backwoods anti-intellectualism is chuckle in our sleeves and move on. For those of the pious who actually try to deal with the issues at hand, not much more attention is needed. Many of them focus on the notion that these scientific conceptions are mere "theories"—that they are "unproven," especially since "no one was around" to witness the big bang or the progress of evolution by natural selection. Aside from the awkward fact that "no one was around" for most of the early creation of the universe as recorded in Genesis, this attitude would invalidate a great part of our scientific and historical knowledge; indeed, pressed to the limit, it would invalidate all knowledge except that which a given individual secures for himself or herself. Even if "someone was around" to witness such events, how are we to know that that person is not lying? On this principle, what evidence do the people of today have that the American Revolution or the Civil War took place? Once again, the real solution is the cardinal principle of probabilities: evolution and the big bang are infinitely more probable, given our current state of knowledge, than Genesis. At this point some clever theists assert that perhaps evolution and the big bang were themselves produced by God! Such a theory can neither be proven nor disproven, but there is simply no evidence to support it. And it also falls into that philosophical error enunciated by Shelley: "We can only infer from effects causes exactly adequate to those effects." The notion that God produced evolution or the big bang (an unwitting reversion to the "clockmaker" analogy of eigh-teenth-century Deism) is supernumerary: since evolution and the big bang are themselves sufficient to explain the phenomena at hand, the addition of God becomes, logically, otiose. Some pious folk now feel that they have come up with an alternative to evolution by propounding the notion of an "intelligent creator" who designed everything in the world to "fit" in perfect accord. This is really nothing more than a minimally refashioned version of the old argument from design, which was already systematically destroyed by David Hume two and a half centuries ago. (The poet Shelley's "Refutation of Deism," included here, founds many of its arguments upon those of Hume.) To my mind, it was refuted most pungently by a half-line in Lucretius: tanta stat praedita culpa ("there is so much wrong with the world"; De Rerum Natura 5.199). If this "creator" was so "intelligent," he neglected to inform us of the intelligibility of earthquakes, cancer, and other phenomena that appear to show that the various parts of his world do not in fact "fit" very well. And if the design of this world is "intelligent," it must necessarily have a purpose, but no one can possibly tell what that purpose is. Surely it cannot be the proliferation of the human race, since we have proliferated only by overcoming the numerous obstacles in our path: the frigidity of the poles, the heat of deserts, and the overriding fact that water covers three-fourths of the globe. Indeed, one could easily argue that God cares more for fishes than for human beings, since he gave them three times as much space to flourish than he gave us.

If god is omnipotent then it’s is a child-murderer – we should have no part of it
Russell ‘57
(Bertrand, British Philosopher and Social critic, in “Atheism: A Reader”, Edited by S.T. Joshi, p. 93)
I will say further that, if there be a purpose and if this purpose is that of an Omnipotent Creator, then that Creator, so far from being loving and kind, as we are told, must be of a degree of wickedness scarcely conceivable. A man who commits a murder is considered to be a bad man. An Omnipotent Deity, if there be one, murders everybody. A man who willingly afflicted another with cancer would be considered a fiend. But the Creator, if He exists, afflicts many thousands every year with this dreadful disease. A man who, having the knowledge and power required to make his children good, chose instead to make them bad, would be viewed with execration. But God, if He exists, makes this choice in the case of very many of His children. The whole conception of an omnipotent God whom it is impious to criticize, could only have arisen under oriental despotisms where sovereigns, in spite of capricious cruelties, continued to enjoy the adulation of their slaves. It is the psychology appropriate to this outmoded political system which belatedly survives in orthodox theology.

We must challenge the world without God – our advocacy grounded in intelligence and personal morality can create a better future. 
Russell 99
(Bertrand, British Philosopher and Social critic, “Russell on Religion: Selections from the Writings of Bertrand Russell”, Edited by Louis Greenspan and Stefan Andersson, p. 90-91)
We want to stand upon our own feet and look fair and square at the world – its good facts, its bad facts, its beauties, and its ugliness; see the world as it is, and be not afraid of it. Conquer the world by intelligence, and not merely by being slavishly subdued by the terror that comes from it. The whole conception of God is a conception derived from the ancient Oriental despotisms. It is a conception quite unworthy of free men. When you hear people in church debasing themselves and saying that they are miserable sinners, and all the rest of it, it seems contemptible and not worthy of self-respecting human beings. We ought to stand up and look the world frankly in the face. We ought to make the best we can of the world, and if it is not so good as we wish, after all it will still be better than what these others have made of it in all these ages. A good world needs knowledge, kindliness, and courage; it does not need a regretful hankering after the past, or a fettering of the free intelligence by the words uttered long ago by ignorant men. It needs a fearless outlook and a free intelligence. It needs hope for the future, not looking back all the time towards a past that is dead, which we trust will be far surpassed by the future that our intelligence can create.

If everything must have a cause God must as well – it is not proof. 
Russell 99
(Bertrand, British Philosopher and Social critic, “Russell on Religion: Selections from the Writings of Bertrand Russell”, Edited by Louis Greenspan and Stefan Andersson, p. 79)
Perhaps the simplest and easiest to understand is the argument of the First Cause. It is maintained that everything we see in this world has a cause, and as you go back in the chain of causes further and further you must come to a First Cause, and to that First Cause you give the name God. That argument, I suppose, does not carry very much weight nowadays, because, in the first place, cause is not quite what it used to be. The philosophers and the men of science have got going on cause, and it has not anything like the vitality that it used to have; but, apart from that, you can see that the argument that there must be a First Cause is one that cannot have any validity. I may say that when I was a young man, and was debating these questions very seriously in my mind, I for a long time accepted the argument of the First Cause, until one day, at the age of eighteen, I read John Stuart Mill's Autobiography, and I there found this sentence: 'My father taught me that the question, "Who made me?" cannot be answered, since it immediately suggests the further question, "Who made God?" ' That very simple sentence showed me, as I still think, the fallacy in the argument of the First Cause. If everything must have a cause, then God must have a cause. If there can be anything without a cause, it may just as well be the world as God, so that there cannot be any validity in that argument. It is exactly of the same nature as the Hindu's view, that the world rested upon an elephant and the elephant rested upon a tortoise; and when they said, 'How about the tortoise?' the Hindu said, 'Suppose we change the subject.' The argument is really no better than that. There is no reason why the world could not have come into being without a cause; nor, on the other hand, is there any reason why it should not have always existed. There is no reason to suppose that the world had a beginning at all. The idea that things .must have a beginning is really due to the poverty of our imagination. Therefore, perhaps, I need not waste any more time upon the argument about the First Cause.

Aquinas’s proofs are vacuous and infinitely regressive—default to our more logical explanations of the world
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006, page 75-79
THOMAS AQUINAS' 'PROOFS' The five 'proofs' asserted by Thomas Aquinas in the thirteenth century don't prove anything, and are easily - though I hesitate to say so, given his eminence - exposed as vacuous. The first three are just different ways of saying the same thing, and they can be con- sidered together. All involve an infinite regress - the answer to a question raises a prior question, and so on ad infinitum. 1 The Unmoved Mover. Nothing moves without a prior mover. This leads us to a regress, from which the only escape is God. Something had to make the first move, and that something we call God. 2 The Uncaused Cause. Nothing is caused by itself. Every effect has a prior cause, and again we are pushed back into regress. This has to be terminated by a first cause, which we call God. 3 The Cosmological Argument. There must have been a time when no physical things existed. But, since physical things exist now, there must have been something non-physical to bring them into existence, and that something we call God. All three of these arguments rely upon the idea of a regress and invoke God to terminate it. They make the entirely unwarranted assumption that God himself is immune to the regress. Even if we allow the dubious luxury of arbitrarily conjuring up a terminator to an infinite regress and giving it a name, simply because we need one, there is absolutely no reason to endow that terminator with any of the properties normally ascribed to God: omnipotence, omniscience, goodness, creativity of design, to say nothing of such human attributes as listening to prayers, forgiving sins and reading innermost thoughts. Incidentally, it has not escaped the notice of logi- cians that omniscience and omnipotence are mutually incompatible. If God is omniscient, he must already know how he is going to intervene to change the course of history using his omnipotence. But that means he can't change his mind about his intervention, which means he is not omnipotent. Karen Owens has captured this witty little paradox in equally engaging verse: Can omniscient God, who Knows the future, find The omnipotence to Change His future mind? To return to the infinite regress and the futility of invoking God to terminate it, it is more parsimonious to conjure up, say, a 'big bang singularity', or some other physical concept as yet unknown. Calling it God is at best unhelpful and at worst perniciously mis- leading. Edward Lear's Nonsense Recipe for Crumboblious Cutlets invites us to 'Procure some strips of beef, and having cut them into the smallest possible pieces, proceed to cut them still smaller, eight or perhaps nine times.' Some regresses do reach a natural terminator. Scientists used to wonder what would happen if you could dissect, say, gold into the smallest possible pieces. Why shouldn't you cut one of those pieces in half and produce an even smaller smidgen of gold? The regress in this case is decisively terminated by the atom. The smallest possible piece of gold is a nucleus consisting of exactly seventy-nine protons and a slightly larger number of neutrons, attended by a swarm of seventy-nine electrons. If you 'cut' gold any further than the level of the single atom, whatever else you get it is not gold. The atom provides a natural terminator to the Crumboblious Cutlets type of regress. It is by no means clear that God provides a natural terminator to the regresses of Aquinas. That's putting it mildly, as we shall see later. Let's move on down Aquinas' list. 4 The Argument from Degree. We notice that things in the world differ. There are degrees of, say, goodness or perfection. But we judge these degrees only by comparison with a maximum. Humans can be both good and bad, so the maximum goodness cannot rest in us. Therefore there must be some other maxi- mum to set the standard for perfection, and we call that maximum God. That's an argument? You might as well say, people vary in smelli- ness but we can make the comparison only by reference to a perfect maximum of conceivable smelliness. Therefore there must exist a pre-eminently peerless stinker, and we call him God. Or substitute any dimension of comparison you like, and derive an equivalently fatuous conclusion. 5 The Teleological Argument, or Argument from Design. Things in the world, especially living things, look as though they have been designed. Nothing that we know looks designed unless it is designed. Therefore there must have been a designer, and we call him God. Aquinas himself used the analogy of an arrow moving towards a target, but a modern heat-seeking anti-aircraft missile would have suited his purpose better. The argument from design is the only one still in regular use today, and it still sounds to many like the ultimate knockdown argument. The young Darwin was impressed by it when, as a Cambridge undergraduate, he read it in William Paley's Natural Theology. Unfortunately for Paley, the mature Darwin blew it out of the water. There has probably never been a more devastating rout of popular belief by clever reasoning than Charles Darwin's destruction of the argument from design. It was so unexpected. Thanks to Darwin, it is no longer true to say that nothing that we know looks designed unless it is designed. Evolution by natural selection produces an excellent simulacrum of design, mounting prodigious heights of complexity and elegance. And among these eminences of pseudo-design are nervous systems which - among their more modest accomplishments - manifest goal-seeking behaviour that, even in a tiny insect, resembles a sophisticated heat- seeking missile more than a simple arrow on target. I shall return to the argument from design in Chapter 4. 

The argument for ontological proofs is infantile and illogical
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006, page 80-81
The very idea that grand conclusions could follow from such logo- machist trickery offends me aesthetically, so I must take care to refrain from bandying words like 'fool'. Bertrand Russell (no fool) interestingly said, 'It is easier to feel convinced that [the ontological argument] must be fallacious than it is to find out precisely where the fallacy lies.' Russell himself, as a young man, was briefly convinced by it: I remember the precise moment, one day in 1894, as I was walking along Trinity Lane, when I saw in a flash (or thought I saw) that the ontological argument is valid. I had gone out to buy a tin of tobacco; on my way back, I suddenly threw it up in the air, and exclaimed as I caught it: 'Great Scott, the ontological argument is sound.' Why, I wonder, didn't he say something like: 'Great Scott, the ontological argument seems to be plausible. But isn't it too good to be true that a grand truth about the cosmos should follow from a mere word game? I'd better set to work to resolve what is perhaps a paradox like those of Zeno.' The Greeks had a hard time seeing through Zeno's 'proof that Achilles would never catch the tortoise. But they had the sense not to conclude that therefore Achilles really would fail to catch the tortoise. Instead, they called it a paradox and waited for later generations of mathematicians to explain it (with, as it turned out, the theory of infinite series con- verging on a limiting value). Russell himself, of course, was as well qualified as anyone to understand why no tobacco tins should be thrown up in celebration of Achilles' failure to catch the tortoise. Why didn't he exercise the same caution over St Anselm? I suspect that he was an exaggeratedly fair-minded atheist, over-eager to be disillusioned if logic seemed to require it. Or perhaps the answer lies in something Russell himself wrote in 1946, long after he had rumbled the ontological argument: The real question is: Is there anything we can think of which, by the mere fact that we can think of it, is shown to exist outside our thought? Every philosopher would like to say yes, because a philosopher's job is to find out things about the world by thinking rather than observing. If yes is the right answer, there is a bridge from pure thought to things. If not, not. My own feeling, to the contrary, would have been an automatic, deep suspicion of any line of reasoning that reached such a signifi- cant conclusion without feeding in a single piece of data from the real world. Perhaps that indicates no more than that I am a scientist rather than a philosopher. Philosophers down the centuries have indeed taken the ontological argument seriously, both for and against. The atheist philosopher J. L. Mackie gives a particularly clear discussion in The Miracle of Theism. I mean it as a compli- ment when I say that you could almost define a philosopher as someone who won't take common sense for an answer. The most definitive refutations of the ontological argument are usually attributed to the philosophers David Hume (1711-76) and Immanuel Kant (1724-1804). Kant identified the trick card up Anselm's sleeve as his slippery assumption that 'existence' is more 'perfect' than non-existence. The American philosopher Norman Malcolm put it like this: 'The doctrine that existence is a perfection is remarkably queer. It makes sense and is true to say that my future house will be a better one if it is insulated than if it is not insulated; but what could it mean to say that it will be a better house if it exists than if it does not?'46 Another philosopher, the Australian Douglas Gasking, made the point with his ironic 'proof that God does not exist (Anselm's contemporary Gaunilo had suggested a somewhat similar reductio). 

Scripture proves nothing—too many logical gaps and contradictions for it to be true
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006, page 92-95
There are still some people who are persuaded by scriptural evidence to believe in God. A common argument, attributed among others to C. S. Lewis (who should have known better), states that, since Jesus claimed to be the Son of God, he must have been either right or else insane or a liar: 'Mad, Bad or God'. Or, with artless alliteration, 'Lunatic, Liar or Lord'. The historical evidence that Jesus claimed any sort of divine status is minimal. But even if that evidence were good, the trilemma on offer would be ludicrously inadequate. A fourth possibility, almost too obvious to need mentioning, is that Jesus was honestly mistaken. Plenty of people are. In any case, as I said, there is no good historical evidence that he ever thought he was divine. The fact that something is written down is persuasive to people not used to asking questions like: 'Who wrote it, and when?' 'How did they know what to write?' 'Did they, in their time, really mean what we, in our time, understand them to be saying?' 'Were they unbiased observers, or did they have an agenda that coloured their writing?' Ever since the nineteenth century, scholarly theologians have made an overwhelming case that the gospels are not reliable accounts of what happened in the history of the real world. All were written long after the death of Jesus, and also after the epis- tles of Paul, which mention almost none of the alleged facts of Jesus' life. All were then copied and recopied, through many different 'Chinese Whispers generations' (see Chapter 5) by fallible scribes who, in any case, had their own religious agendas. A good example of the colouring by religious agendas is the whole heart-warming legend of Jesus' birth in Bethlehem, followed by Herod's massacre of the innocents. When the gospels were written, many years after Jesus' death, nobody knew where he was born. But an Old Testament prophecy (Micah 5:2) had led Jews to expect that the long-awaited Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. In the light of this prophecy, John's gospel specifically remarks that his followers were surprised that he was not born in Bethlehem: 'Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee? Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?' Matthew and Luke handle the problem differently, by deciding that Jesus must have been born in Bethlehem after all. But they get him there by different routes. Matthew has Mary and Joseph in Bethlehem all along, moving to Nazareth only long after the birth of Jesus, on their return from Egypt where they fled from King Herod and the massacre of the innocents. Luke, by contrast, acknowledges that Mary and Joseph lived in Nazareth before Jesus was born. So how to get them to Bethlehem at the crucial moment, in order to fulfil the prophecy? Luke says that, in the time when Cyrenius (Quirinius) was governor of Syria, Caesar Augustus decreed a census for taxation purposes, and everybody had to go 'to his own city'. Joseph was 'of the house and lineage of David' and therefore he had to go to 'the city of David, which is called Bethlehem'. That must have seemed like a good solution. Except that historically it is complete nonsense, as A. N. Wilson in Jesus and Robin Lane Fox in The Unauthorized Version (among others) have pointed out. David, if he existed, lived nearly a thousand years before Mary and Joseph. Why on earth would the Romans have required Joseph to go to the city where a remote ancestor had lived a millennium earlier? It is as though I were required to specify, say, Ashby-de-la-Zouch as my home town on a census form, if it happened that I could trace my ancestry back to the Seigneur de Dakeyne, who came over with William the Conqueror and settled there. Moreover, Luke screws up his dating by tactlessly mentioning events that historians are capable of independently checking. There was indeed a census under Governor Quirinius - a local census, not one decreed by Caesar Augustus for the Empire as a whole - but it happened too late: in AD 6, long after Herod's death. Lane Fox concludes that 'Luke's story is historically impossible and internally incoherent', but he sympathizes with Luke's plight and his desire to fulfil the prophecy of Micah. In the December 2004 issue of Free Inquiry, Tom Flynn, the Editor of that excellent magazine, assembled a collection of articles documenting the contradictions and gaping holes in the well-loved Christmas story. Flynn himself lists the many contradictions between Matthew and Luke, the only two evangelists who treat the birth of Jesus at all. 50 Robert Gillooly shows how all the essential features of the Jesus legend, including the star in the east, the virgin birth, the veneration of the baby by kings, the miracles, the execution, the resurrection and the ascension are borrowed - every last one of them - from other religions already in existence in the Mediterranean and Near East region. Flynn suggests that Matthew's desire to fulfil messianic prophecies (descent from David, birth in Bethlehem) for the benefit of Jewish readers came into headlong collision with Luke's desire to adapt Christianity for the Gentiles, and hence to press the familiar hot buttons of pagan Hellenistic religions (virgin birth, worship by kings, etc.). The resulting contradictions are glaring, but consistently overlooked by the faithful. Sophisticated Christians do not need George Gershwin to convince them that 'The things that you're li'ble / To read in the Bible / It ain't necessarily so'. But there are many unsophisticated Christians out there who think it absolutely is necessarily so - who take the Bible very seriously indeed as a literal and accurate record of history and hence as evidence supporting their religious beliefs. Do these people never open the book that they believe is the literal truth? Why don't they notice those glaring contradictions? Shouldn't a literalist worry about the fact that Matthew traces Joseph's descent from King David via twenty-eight intermediate generations, while Luke has forty-one generations? Worse, there is almost no overlap in the names on the two lists! In any case, if Jesus really was born of a virgin, Joseph's ancestry is irrelevant and can- not be used to fulfil, on Jesus' behalf, the Old Testament prophecy that the Messiah should be descended from David. 

The logic behind Pascal’s wager is fundamentally illogical and could turn out just as badly as not believing—no offense 
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006, page 103-105
PASCAL'S WAGER The great French mathematician Blaise Pascal reckoned that, how- ever long the odds against God's existence might be, there is an even larger asymmetry in the penalty for guessing wrong. You'd better believe in God, because if you are right you stand to gain eternal bliss and if you are wrong it won't make any difference anyway. On the other hand, if you don't believe in God and you turn out to be wrong you get eternal damnation, whereas if you are right it makes no difference. On the face of it the decision is a no-brainer. Believe in God. There is something distinctly odd about the argument, however. Believing is not something you can decide to do as a matter of policy. At least, it is not something I can decide to do as an act of will. I can decide to go to church and I can decide to recite the Nicene Creed, and I can decide to swear on a stack of bibles that I believe every word inside them. But none of that can make me actually believe it if I don't. Pascal's wager could only ever be an argument for feigning belief in God. And the God that you claim to believe in had better not be of the omniscient kind or he'd see through the deception. The ludicrous idea that believing is something you can decide to do is deliciously mocked by Douglas Adams in Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, where we meet the robotic Electric Monk, a labour-saving device that you buy 'to do your believing for you'. The de luxe model is advertised as 'Capable of believing things they wouldn't believe in Salt Lake City'. But why, in any case, do we so readily accept the idea that the one thing you must do if you want to please God is believe in him? What's so special about believing? Isn't it just as likely that God would reward kindness, or generosity, or humility? Or sincerity? What if God is a scientist who regards honest seeking after truth as the supreme virtue? Indeed, wouldn't the designer of the universe have to be a scientist? Bertrand Russell was asked what he would say if he died and found himself confronted by God, demanding to know why Russell had not believed in him. 'Not enough evidence, God, not enough evidence,' was Russell's (I almost said immortal) reply. Mightn't God respect Russell for his courageous scepticism (let alone for the courageous pacifism that landed him in prison in the First World War) far more than he would respect Pascal for his cowardly bet-hedging? And, while we cannot know which way God would jump, we don't need to know in order to refute Pascal's Wager. We are talking about a bet, remember, and Pascal wasn't claiming that his wager enjoyed anything but very long odds. Would you bet on God's valuing dishonestly faked belief (or even honest belief) over honest scepticism? Then again, suppose the god who confronts you when you die turns out to be Baal, and suppose Baal is just as jealous as his old rival Yahweh was said to be. Mightn't Pascal have been better of f wagering on no god at all rather than on the wrong god? Indeed, doesn't the sheer number of potential gods and goddesses on whom one might bet vitiate Pascal's whole logic? Pascal was probably joking when he promoted his wager, just as I am joking in my dis- missal of it. But I have encountered people, for example in the question session after a lecture, who have seriously advanced Pascal's Wager as an argument in favour of believing in God, so it was right to give it a brief airing here. Is it possible, finally, to argue for a sort of anti-Pascal wager? Suppose we grant that there is indeed some small chance that God exists. Nevertheless, it could be said that you will lead a better, fuller life if you bet on his not existing, than if you bet on his exist- ing and therefore squander your precious time on worshipping him, sacrificing to him, fighting and dying for him, etc. I won't pursue the question here, but readers might like to bear it in mind when we come to later chapters on the evil consequences that can flow from religious belief and observance. 

Science disproves afterlife
Shermer, 8—Michael, American science writer, historian of science, founder of The Skeptics Society, and editor of its magazine Skeptic, “Hope Springs Eternal: Science, the Afterlife & the Meaning of Life”—Online Debate hosted through Skeptics Magazine between Michael Shermer and Deepak Chopra, http://www.skeptic.com/reading_room/debates/afterlife.html
Reality Check: What Science Really Says Okay, back to earth. Here is the reality. It has been estimated that in the last 50,000 years about 106 billion humans were born. Of the 100 billion people born before the six billion living today, every one of them has died and not one has returned to confirm for us beyond a reasonable doubt that there is life after death. This data set does not bode well for promises of immortality and claims for an afterlife. But let’s review them one by one. Near Death Experiences and Altered States of Consciousness Five centuries ago demons haunted our world, with incubi and succubi tormenting their victims as they lay asleep in their beds. Two centuries ago spirits haunted our world, with ghosts and ghouls harassing their sufferers all hours of the night. Last century aliens haunted our world, with grays and greens abducting captives out of their beds and whisking them away for probing and prodding. Today people are experiencing near-death and out-of-body experiences, floating above their bodies, out of their bedrooms, and even off the planet into space. What is going on here? Are these elusive creatures and mysterious phenomena in our world or in our minds? New evidence indicates that they are, in fact, a product of the brain. Neuroscientist Michael Persinger, in his laboratory at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Canada, for example, can induce all of these experiences in subjects by subjecting their temporal lobes to patterns of magnetic fields. I tried it and had a mild out-of-body experience. Similarly, the September 19, 2002 issue of Nature, reported that the Swiss neuroscientist Olaf Blanke and his colleagues discovered that they could bring about out-of-body experiences (OBEs) through electrical stimulation of the right angular gyrus in the temporal lobe of a 43-year old woman suffering from severe epileptic seizures. In initial mild stimulations she reported “sinking into the bed” or “falling from a height.” More intense stimulation led her to “see myself lying in bed, from above, but I only see my legs and lower trunk.” Another stimulation induced “an instantaneous feeling of ‘lightness’ and ‘floating’ about two meters above the bed, close to the ceiling.” In a related study reported in the 2001 book Why God Won’t Go Away, researchers Andrew Newberg and Eugene D’Aquili found that when Buddhist monks meditate and Franciscan nuns pray their brain scans indicate strikingly low activity in the posterior superior parietal lobe, a region of the brain the authors have dubbed the Orientation Association Area (OAA), whose job it is to orient the body in physical space (people with damage to this area have a difficult time negotiating their way around a house). When the OAA is booted up and running smoothly there is a sharp distinction between self and non-self. When OAA is in sleep mode — as in deep meditation and prayer — that division breaks down, leading to a blurring of the lines between reality and fantasy, between feeling in body and out of body. Perhaps this is what happens to monks who experience a sense of oneness with the universe, or with nuns who feel the presence of God, or with alien abductees floating out of their beds up to the mother ship. Sometimes trauma can trigger such experiences. The December 2001 issue of Lancet published a Dutch study in which of 344 cardiac patients resuscitated from clinical death, 12 percent reported near-death experiences (NDEs), where they floated above their bodies and saw a light at the end of a tunnel. Some even described speaking to dead relatives. The general explanation for all of these phenomena is that since our normal experience is of stimuli coming into the brain from the outside, when a part of the brain abnormally generates these illusions, another part of the brain interprets them as external events. Hence, the abnormal is thought to be the paranormal. In reality, it is just brain chemistry. More specifically, NDEs and OBEs have biochemical correlates. We know, for example, that the hallucination of flying is triggered by atropine and other belladonna alkaloids, some of which are found in mandrake or jimson weed and were used by European witches and American Indian shamans. OBEs are easily induced by dissociative anesthetics such as the ketamines. DMT (dimethyl-tryptamine) causes the feeling of the world enlarging or shrinking. MDA (methylenedioxyamphetamine) stimulates the feeling of age regression where things we have long forgotten are brought back to memory. And, of course, LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) triggers visual and auditory hallucinations and gives a feeling of oneness with the cosmos, among other effects. The fact that there are receptor sites in the brain for such artificially processed chemicals, means that there are naturally produced chemicals in the brain which, under certain conditions (the stress of trauma or an accident, for example) can induce any or all of the feelings typically described in a NDE. Thus, NDEs and OBEs are forms of wild “trips” induced by the extreme trauma of almost dying. Psychologist and paranormal researcher Susan Blackmore has taken the hallucination hypothesis one step further by demonstrating why different people would experience similar effects, such as the tunnel. The visual cortex on the back of the brain is where information from the retina is processed. Hallucinogenic drugs and lack of oxygen to the brain (such as sometimes occurs near death) can interfere with the normal rate of firing by nerve cells in this area. When this occurs, “stripes” of neuronal activity move across the visual cortex, which is interpreted by the brain as concentric rings or spirals. These spirals may be “seen” as a tunnel. Similarly, in the OBE the experience of visualizing things from above is actually just an extension of a normal process we all do called “decentering” — picture yourself sitting on the beach or climbing a mountain and it will usually be from above looking down. These studies are evidence that mind and brain are one. All experience is mediated by the brain. Large brain areas like the cortex coordinate imputes from smaller brain areas such as the temporal lobes, which themselves collate neural events from still smaller brain modules like the angular gyrus. This reduction continues all the way down to the single neuron level, where highly-selective neurons, sometimes described as “grandmother” neurons, fire only when subjects see someone they know. Caltech neuroscientists Christof Koch and Gabriel Kreiman, in conjunction with UCLA neurosurgeon Itzhak Fried, have even found a single neuron that fires when the subject is shown a photograph of Bill Clinton. The Monica neuron must be closely connected. The search for the neural correlates of consciousness begin at this fundamental level, and then we ratchet up from there, as we look for emergent properties of complex systems of thought that arise from these simpler systems of neuronal connections. Of course, we are not aware of the workings of our own electrochemical systems. What we actually experience is what philosophers call qualia, or subjective states of thoughts and feelings that arise from a concatenation of neural events. But eventually even the grand mystery of consciousness will be solved by the penetrating tools of science. This is the fate of the paranormal and the supernatural — to be subsumed into the normal and the natural. In fact, there is no paranormal or supernatural; there is only the normal and the natural … and mysteries yet to be explained.

===2nc Religion Bad=== 

Jesus used faith in God instead of actual warrants—our ethics trump his teachings
Smith ‘79
(George, Senior Research Fellow at the Institute for Humane Studies and Author of Several Books, “Atheism: The Case Against God”, p. 321-322)
In assessing the ethical significance of Jesus, it is illuminating to contrast him with the ancient Greek philosophers who preceded him by hundreds of years. The differences are so striking that few scholars care to place Jesus on the same level as such intellectual giants as Plato and Aristotle. Whether one agrees with these philosophers or not, they at least argue for their claims; Jesus, on the other hand, issues proclamations backed by the threat of force. It is not my purpose here to "refute" the moral precepts of Jesus by demonstrating them to be ethically unsound. Since Jesus does not argue for his doctrines, they are, philosophically, nothing more than arbitrary assertions. And one cannot argue with an arbitrary proposition; one either accepts it on faith or ignores it. Christians prefer the former alternative, while I choose the latter. The precepts of Jesus simply do not merit a serious or comprehensive refutation. My sole purpose in this discussion is to examine the effects and wider implications of Jesus' major doctrines, not to lend them the undeserved respect of a counter-argument. As indicated previously, the major precept of the biblical Jesus is what contemporary theologians like to call total devotion, or commitment, to God. In this context, of course, the terms "devotion" and "commitment" are euphemisms for their less flattering counterparts: obedience and conformity. As with all theologians, when Jesus says "believe" he means "obey." And when Jesus praises men of great "faith," he is praising men who will obey unquestioningly any command they believe to come from God. When conformity is required, as it is in Christianity, what are the results? To begin with, the sacrifice of truth inevitably follows. One can be committed to conformity or one can be committed to truth, but not both. The pursuit of truth requires the unrestricted use of one's mind—the moral freedom to question, to examine evidence, to consider opposing viewpoints, to criticize, to accept as true only that which can be demonstrated—regardless of whether one's conclusions conform to a particular creed. The fundamental teaching of Jesus—the demand for conformity—thus gives rise to a fundamental and viciously destructive teaching of Christianity: that some beliefs lie beyond the scope of criticism and that to question them is sinful, or morally wrong. By placing a moral restriction on what one is permitted to believe, Christianity declares itself an enemy of truth and of the faculty by which man arrives at truth—reason. 

The flip side of salvation is the need to be saved – theistic morality in Christianity can only justify the kingdom of heaven through a vested interest in destroying all earthly happiness
Smith ‘79
(George, Senior Research Fellow at the Institute for Humane Studies and Author of Several Books, “Atheism: The Case Against God”, p. 308-310)
In exchange for obedience, Christianity promises salvation in an afterlife; but in order to elicit obedience through this promise, Christianity must convince men that they need salvation, that there is something to be "saved" from. Christianity has nothing to offer a happy man living in a natural, intelligible universe. If Christianity is to gain a motivational foothold, it must declare war on earthly pleasure and happiness, and this, historically, has been its precise course of action. In the eyes of Christianity, man is sinful and helpless in the face of God, and is potential fuel for the flames of hell. Just as Christianity must destroy reason before it can introduce faith, so it must destroy happiness before it can introduce salvation. It is not accidental that Christianity is profoundly anti-pleasure, especially in the area of sex; this bias serves a specific function. Pleasure is the fuel of life, and sexual pleasure is the most intense form of pleasure that man can experience. To deny oneself pleasure, or to convince oneself that pleasure is evil, is to produce frustration and anxiety and thereby become potential material for salvation. Christianity cannot erase man's need for pleasure, nor can it eradicate the various sources of pleasure. What it can do, however, and what it has been extremely effective in accomplishing, is to inculcate guilt in connection with pleasure. The pursuit of pleasure, when accompanied by guilt, becomes a means of perpetuating chronic guilt, and this serves to reinforce one's dependence on God. This condemnation of Christianity as anti-pleasure will undoubtedly be viewed by some readers as outdated. Some contemporary theologians, after all, have attempted to reverse the otherworldly trend of Christianity to a concern for earthly well-being and happiness. From a historical perspective, however, this concern occupies only a fraction of Christianity's history. A theologian, if he wishes, can preach a philosophy of life without reference to sin, salvation, obedience and the supernatural, but such a philosophy has nothing to do with the Bible and Christian theism. Moreover, to the extent that modern theologians endorse pro-life attitudes, they are merely riding the current of public change. No one is foolish enough to claim, for example, that Christianity has been a primary force in effecting a more open and benevolent attitude toward sex in American society; on the contrary, Christianity has constituted the major obstacle in this area. Most Christian theologians who pass themselves off as radical reformers are decades, if not centuries, behind non-Christian writers; they are little more than politicians of the spirit who cater to public opinion. When the Christian "reformer" comes forward to declare that sex is not evil and that sex outside of marriage may, after all, be permissible—and when he calls on Christian churches to spearhead his new movement—one must wonder if it ever occurs to him that he is nineteen centuries too late.3 If such theologians were truly concerned with man's happiness on earth, they would begin by repudiating, totally and unequivocally, Christianity itself. It cannot be emphasized too strongly that Christianity has a vested interest in human misery. This central theme manifests itself again and again in Christian doctrines, and most Christian doctrines are unintelligible unless viewed in this context. The spectacular success of Christianity has been a topic of heated debate among scholars, and it is certainly true that definite historical factors influenced that success. I suggest, however, that much of Christianity's success can be accounted for in another way: Christianity, perhaps more than any religion before or since, capitalized on human suffering; and it was enormously successful in insuring its own existence through the perpetuation of human suffering.

Religious happiness is a coward’s argument – we can be happy without religion.
Russell ‘57
(Bertrand, British Philosopher and Social critic, in “Atheism: A Reader”, Edited by S.T. Joshi, p. 92-93)
There is a simpler and more naive form of the same argument, which appeals to many individuals. People will tell us that without the consolations of religion they would be intolerably unhappy. So far as this is true, it is a coward's argument. Nobody but a coward would consciously choose to live in a fool's paradise. When a man suspects his wife of infidelity, he is not thought the better of for shutting his eyes to the evidence. And I cannot see why ignoring evidence should be contemptible in one case and admirable in the other. Apart from this argument the importance of religion in contributing to individual happiness is very much exaggerated. Whether you are happy or unhappy depends upon a number of factors. Most people need good health and enough to eat. They need the good opinion of their social milieu and the affection of their intimates. They need not only physical health but mental health. Given all these things, most people will be happy whatever their theology. Without them, most people will be unhappy, whatever their theology. In thinking over the people I have known, I do not find that on the average those who had religious beliefs were happier than those who had not. 

If we win God can’t rationally exist we turn the ethics arguments – ethics presupposes rationality and truth
Barnes ‘68
(Hazel, Professor of Philosophy at Trinity College, “An Existentialist Ethics”, p. 25-26)
The choice to be ethical affirms the importance of realizing oneself objectively in time. It does not deny or preclude freedom's spontaneous self-realization. This is where the Underground Man was mistaken. Although the nonethical choice embraces the constant possibility of ignoring all demands for imposing a consistent value system on one's life, the ethical choice requires that we recognize all of the truth about man as part of the data on the basis of which we make our decisions. Once we grant that the choice to be ethical is a commitment to the need to justify one's life, we can fairly rapidly set up certain basic requirements which will have to be met by any system which purports to be an ethics. First of all, if the idea of justification demands that there be a harmony of subjective judgment and objective experience, then our ethics must never knowingly assume a view which conflicts with what is believed to be reality. An ethics must introduce rationality as one of its criteria even though it may at the same time insist that its goal is happiness or satisfaction or some other state which is closer to emotion than to reason. Fidelity to the truth of man and the Universe is essential. Philosophical systems vary as to the degree to which such Truth is thought to be absolute and attainable by everyone, but no ethics may be allowed to act contrary to what it believes to be real and true. Possibly honesty would be the better term here, but I use the word to comprise more than the quality of not deceiving oneself or others. It includes, as well, the determination to know insofar as possible what reality is and never to allow conduct which cannot be justified without denying what one holds to be given. An example is the existentialist belief in human freedom. If one accepts freedom as a fact, then no act is ethical which acts as if men were not free. Rationality involves more than intellectual honesty. It requires as one of its corollary values a respect for consistency. 

Belief in God is not necessary for morality. In fact, religious dogmatism has the basis of violence and only humanist ethics can make a world that we can all live in.
Kurtz, 04 (Free Inquiry, Professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo), Volume 21, Number 3. Paul, http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php). 
Yet many religionists today decry humanist ethics and they proclaim absolute declarations and creeds. In the past, they often opposed democracy and moral freedom, tolerance, and respect for diversity. Many emphasize still today the virtue of obedience rather than of individual autonomy. Humanists respond that belief in God is no guarantee of moral virtue. Indeed, devoted believers will often kill each other over differences in doctrine or authority, and they oppose each other on issues concerning public morality: some are for and some against capital punishment, war or peace, the rights of women, minorities, euthanasia, sexual freedom, etc. Dogmatic religious doctrines especially set people against each other, leading to hypocrisy, greed, policies of retribution and punishment, chauvinism, and pride, rather than an empathetic moral regard for the needs of others. Thus there is a genuine humanist alternative to such doctrinaire points of view, which needs to be appreciated. I submit that humanist ethical ideals, which emphasize the pursuit of happiness, moral freedom, tolerance, moral responsibility, and rational moral inquiry, are basic for social peace and ethical improvement, and that both religious and nonreligious people can share these values. To castigate humanist ethics would endanger the hard-won gains to achieve a secular state, a democratic society, and a prosperous economy serving all the citizens of society. Shall we risk the advances of social, political, and economic progress in the name of an authoritarian creed? To reject humanist morality would do precisely that: It would repeal the modern world.

===2nc No God=== 

Their improbability arguments go OUR way—it proves natural selection and science are the incredible things and that the Earth self-progressed instead of being pushed along by some “God”
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006, page 114
The argument from improbability is the big one. In the traditional guise of the argument from design, it is easily today's most popular argument offered in favour of the existence of God and it is seen, by an amazingly large number of theists, as completely and utterly convincing. It is indeed a very strong and, I suspect, unanswerable argument - but in precisely the opposite direction from the theist's intention. The argument from improbability, properly deployed, comes close to proving that God does not exist. My name for the statistical demonstration that God almost certainly does not exist is the Ultimate Boeing 747 gambit. The name comes from Fred Hoyle's amusing image of the Boeing 747 and the scrapyard. I am not sure whether Hoyle ever wrote it down himself, but it was attributed to him by his close colleague Chandra Wickramasinghe and is presumably authentic. 58 Hoyle said that the probability of life originating on Earth is no greater than the chance that a hurricane, sweeping through a scrapyard, would have the luck to assemble a Boeing 747. Others have borrowed the metaphor to refer to the later evolution of complex living bodies, where it has a spurious plausibility. The odds against assembling a fully functioning horse, beetle or ostrich by randomly shuffling its parts are up there in 747 territory. This, in a nutshell, is the creationist's favourite argument - an argument that could be made only by somebody who doesn't understand the first thing about natural selection: somebody who thinks natural selection is a theory of chance whereas - in the relevant sense of chance - it is the opposite. The creationist misappropriation of the argument from im- probability always takes the same general form, and it doesn't make any difference if the creationist chooses to masquerade in the politically expedient fancy dress of 'intelligent design' (ID). Some observed phenomenon - often a living creature or one of its more complex organs, but it could be anything from a molecule up to the universe itself - is correctly extolled as statistically improbable. Sometimes the language of information theory is used: the Darwinian is challenged to explain the source of all the information in living matter, in the technical sense of information content as a measure of improbability or 'surprise value'. Or the argument may invoke the economist's hackneyed motto: there's no such thing as a free lunch - and Darwinism is accused of trying to get something for nothing. In fact, as I shall show in this chapter, Darwinian natural selection is the only known solution to the otherwise un- answerable riddle of where the information comes from. It turns out to be the God Hypothesis that tries to get something for nothing. God tries to have his free lunch and be it too. However statistically improbable the entity you seek to explain by invoking a designer, the designer himself has got to be at least as improbable. God is the Ultimate Boeing 747. The argument from improbability states that complex things could not have come about by chance. But many people define 'come about by chance' as a synonym for 'come about in the absence of deliberate design'. Not surprisingly, therefore, they think improbability is evidence of design. Darwinian natural selection shows how wrong this is with respect to biological improbability. And although Darwinism may not be directly relevant to the inanimate world - cosmology, for example - it raises our consciousness in areas outside its original territory of biology. A deep understanding of Darwinism teaches us to be wary of the easy assumption that design is the only alternative to chance, and teaches us to seek out graded ramps of slowly increasing complexity. Before Darwin, philosophers such as Hume understood that the improbability of life did not mean it had to be designed, but they couldn't imagine the alternative. After Darwin, we all should feel, deep in our bones, suspicious of the very idea of design. The illusion of design is a trap that has caught us before, and Darwin should have immunized us by raising our consciousness. Would that he had succeeded with all of us. 

The arguments for God’s existence fail to meet basic standards of a burden of proof—err on the side of skepticality until the religious can prove something
Russell, 27—Bertrand, “Why I Am Not a Christian” Lecture delivered in London to the National Secular Society and published in the 1957 book Why I am Not a Christian And Other Essays— http://users.drew.edu/~jlenz/whynot.html
The First-cause Argument Perhaps the simplest and easiest to understand is the argument of the First Cause. (It is maintained that everything we see in this world has a cause, and as you go back in the chain of causes further and further you must come to a First Cause, and to that First Cause you give the name of God.) That argument, I suppose, does not carry very much weight nowadays, because, in the first place, cause is not quite what it used to be. The philosophers and the men of science have got going on cause, and it has not anything like the vitality it used to have; but, apart from that, you can see that the argument that there must be a First Cause is one that cannot have any validity. I may say that when I was a young man and was debating these questions very seriously in my mind, I for a long time accepted the argument of the First Cause, until one day, at the age of eighteen, I read John Stuart Mill's Autobiography, and I there found this sentence: "My father taught me that the question 'Who made me?' cannot be answered, since it immediately suggests the further question `Who made god?'" That very simple sentence showed me, as I still think, the fallacy in the argument of the First Cause. If everything must have a cause, then God must have a cause. If there can be anything without a cause, it may just as well be the world as God, so that there cannot be any validity in that argument. It is exactly of the same nature as the Hindu's view, that the world rested upon an elephant and the elephant rested upon a tortoise; and when they said, "How about the tortoise?" the Indian said, "Suppose we change the subject." The argument is really no better than that. There is no reason why the world could not have come into being without a cause; nor, on the other hand, is there any reason why it should not have always existed. There is no reason to suppose that the world had a beginning at all. The idea that things must have a beginning is really due to the poverty of our imagination. Therefore, perhaps, I need not waste any more time upon the argument about the First Cause. The Natural-law Argument Then there is a very common argument from natural law. That was a favorite argument all through the eighteenth century, especially under the influence of Sir Isaac Newton and his cosmogony. People observed the planets going around the sun according to the law of gravitation, and they thought that God had given a behest to these planets to move in that particular fashion, and that was why they did so. That was, of course, a convenient and simple explanation that saved them the trouble of looking any further for explanations of the law of gravitation. Nowadays we explain the law of gravitation in a somewhat complicated fashion that Einstein has introduced. I do not propose to give you a lecture on the law of gravitation, as interpreted by Einstein, because that again would take some time; at any rate, you no longer have the sort of natural law that you had in the Newtonian system, where, for some reason that nobody could understand, nature behaved in a uniform fashion. We now find that a great many things we thought were natural laws are really human conventions. You know that even in the remotest depths of stellar space there are still three feet to a yard. That is, no doubt, a very remarkable fact, but you would hardly call it a law of nature. And a great many things that have been regarded as laws of nature are of that kind. On the other hand, where you can get down to any knowledge of what atoms actually do, you will find they are much less subject to law than people thought, and that the laws at which you arrive are statistical averages of just the sort that would emerge from chance. There is, as we all know, a law that if you throw dice you will get double sixes only about once in thirty-six times, and we do not regard that as evidence that the fall of the dice is regulated by design; on the contrary, if the double sixes came every time we should think that there was design. The laws of nature are of that sort as regards a great many of them. They are statistical averages such as would emerge from the laws of chance; and that makes this whole business of natural law much less impressive than it formerly was. Quite apart from that, which represents the momentary state of science that may change tomorrow, the whole idea that natural laws imply a lawgiver is due to a confusion between natural and human laws. Human laws are behests commanding you to behave a certain way, in which you may choose to behave, or you may choose not to behave; but natural laws are a description of how things do in fact behave, and being a mere description of what they in fact do, you cannot argue that there must be somebody who told them to do that, because even supposing that there were, you are then faced with the question "Why did God issue just those natural laws and no others?" If you say that he did it simply from his own good pleasure, and without any reason, you then find that there is something which is not subject to law, and so your train of natural law is interrupted. If you say, as more orthodox theologians do, that in all the laws which God issues he had a reason for giving those laws rather than others -- the reason, of course, being to create the best universe, although you would never think it to look at it -- if there were a reason for the laws which God gave, then God himself was subject to law, and therefore you do not get any advantage by introducing God as an intermediary. You really have a law outside and anterior to the divine edicts, and God does not serve your purpose, because he is not the ultimate lawgiver. In short, this whole argument about natural law no longer has anything like the strength that it used to have. I am traveling on in time in my review of the arguments. The arguments that are used for the existence of God change their character as time goes on. They were at first hard intellectual arguments embodying certain quite definite fallacies. As we come to modern times they become less respectable intellectually and more and more affected by a kind of moralizing vagueness. The Argument from Design The next step in the process brings us to the argument from design. You all know the argument from design: everything in the world is made just so that we can manage to live in the world, and if the world was ever so little different, we could not manage to live in it. That is the argument from design. It sometimes takes a rather curious form; for instance, it is argued that rabbits have white tails in order to be easy to shoot. I do not know how rabbits would view that application. It is an easy argument to parody. You all know Voltaire's remark, that obviously the nose was designed to be such as to fit spectacles. That sort of parody has turned out to be not nearly so wide of the mark as it might have seemed in the eighteenth century, because since the time of Darwin we understand much better why living creatures are adapted to their environment. It is not that their environment was made to be suitable to them but that they grew to be suitable to it, and that is the basis of adaptation. There is no evidence of design about it. When you come to look into this argument from design, it is a most astonishing thing that people can believe that this world, with all the things that are in it, with all its defects, should be the best that omnipotence and omniscience have been able to produce in millions of years. I really cannot believe it. Do you think that, if you were granted omnipotence and omniscience and millions of years in which to perfect your world, you could produce nothing better than the Ku Klux Klan or the Fascists? Moreover, if you accept the ordinary laws of science, you have to suppose that human life and life in general on this planet will die out in due course: it is a stage in the decay of the solar system; at a certain stage of decay you get the sort of conditions of temperature and so forth which are suitable to protoplasm, and there is life for a short time in the life of the whole solar system. You see in the moon the sort of thing to which the earth is tending -- something dead, cold, and lifeless.

AT: Universe fine tuning
Dawkins, 6—Richard, evolutionary biologist at Oxford University, The God Delusion, 2006
We live not only on a friendly planet but also in a friendly universe.
It follows from the fact of our existence that the laws of physics
must be friendly enough to allow life to arise. It is no accident that
when we look at the night sky we see stars, for stars are a necessary
prerequisite for the existence of most of the chemical elements, and
without chemistry there could be no life. Physicists have calculated
that, if the laws and constants of physics had been even slightly
different, the universe would have developed in such a way that life
would have been impossible. Different physicists put it in different
ways, but the conclusion is always much the same. Martin Rees, in
Just Six Numbers, lists six fundamental constants, which are
believed to hold all around the universe. Each of these six numbers
is finely tuned in the sense that, if it were slightly different, the
142 i i 1 1 t, O I) :> 1 [.
universe would be comprehensively different and presumably
unfriendly to life.
An example of Rees's six numbers is the magnitude of the socalled
'strong' force, the force that binds the components of an
atomic nucleus: the nuclear force that has to be overcome when one
'splits' the atom. It is measured as E, the proportion of the mass of
a hydrogen nucleus that is converted to energy when hydrogen
fuses to form helium. The value of this number in our universe is
0.00"7, and it looks as though it had to be very close to this value in
order for any chemistry (which is a prerequisite for life) to exist.
Chemistry as we know it consists of the combination and recombination
of the ninety or so naturally occurring elements of the
periodic table. Hydrogen is the simplest and commonest of the
elements. All the other elements in the universe are made ultimately
from hydrogen by nuclear fusion. Nuclear fusion is a difficult
process which occurs in the intensely hot conditions of the interiors
of stars (and in hydrogen bombs). Relatively small stars, such as
our sun, can make only light elements such as helium, the second
lightest in the periodic table after hydrogen. It takes larger and
hotter stars to develop the high temperatures needed to forge most
of the heavier elements, in a cascade of nuclear fusion processes
whose details were worked out by Fred Hoyle and two colleagues
(an achievement for which, mysteriously, Hoyle was not given a
share of the Nobel Prize received by the others). These big stars
may explode as supernovas, scattering their materials, including the
elements of the periodic table, in dust clouds. These dust clouds
eventually condense to form new stars and planets, including
our own. This is why Earth is rich in elements over and above the
ubiquitous hydrogen: elements without which chemistry, and life,
would be impossible.
The relevant point here is that the value of the strong force
crucially determines how far up the periodic table the nuclear
fusion cascade goes. If the strong force were too small, say 0.006
1 say 'presumably', partly because we don't know how different alien forms of
life might be, and partly because it is possible that we make a mistake if we consider
only the consequences of changing one constant at a time. Could there be
other combinations of values of the six numbers which would turn out to be
friendly to life, in ways that we do not discover if we consider them only one at a
time? Nevertheless, I shall proceed, for simplicity, as though we really do have a
big problem to explain in the apparent fine-tuning of the fundamental constants.
!' R I A L M O S T l' I U '[ A I \ I Y is \ O i. O !< 143
instead of 0.007, the universe would contain nothing but hydrogen,
and no interesting chemistry could result. If it were too large, say
0.008, all the hydrogen would have fused to make heavier elements.
A chemistry without hydrogen could not generate life as we know
it. For one thing, there would be no water. The Goldilocks value -
0.007 - is just right for yielding the richness of elements that we
need for an interesting and life-supporting chemistry.
I won't go through the rest of Rees's six numbers. The bottom
line for each of them is the same. The actual number sits in a
Goldilocks band of values outside which life would not have been
possible. How should we respond to this? Yet again, we have the
theist's answer on the one hand, and the anthropic answer on the
other. The theist says that God, when setting up the universe, tuned
the fundamental constants of the universe so that each one lay in its
Goldilocks zone for the production of life. It is as though God had
six knobs that he could twiddle, and he carefully tuned each knob
to its Goldilocks value. As ever, the theist's answer is deeply unsatisfying,
because it leaves the existence of God unexplained. A
God capable of calculating the Goldilocks values for the six
numbers would have to be at least as improbable as the finely tuned
combination of numbers itself, and that's very improbable indeed -
which is indeed the premise of the whole discussion we are having.
It follows that the theist's answer has utterly failed to make any
headway towards solving the problem at hand. I see no alternative
but to dismiss it, while at the same time marvelling at the number
of people who can't see the problem and seem genuinely satisfied
by the 'Divine Knob-Twiddler' argument.
Maybe the psychological reason for this amazing blindness has
something to do with the fact that many people have not had their
consciousness raised, as biologists have, by natural selection and its
power to tame improbability. J. Anderson Thomson, from his
perspective as an evolutionary psychiatrist, points me to an
additional reason, the psychological bias that we all have towards
personifying inanimate objects as agents. As Thomson says, we are
more inclined to mistake a shadow for a burglar than a burglar for
a shadow. A false positive might be a waste of time. A false negative
could be fatal. In a letter to me, he suggested that, in our ancestral
past, our greatest challenge in our environment came from each
14 4 T H E G O D D E L U S I O N
other. 'The legacy of that is the default assumption, often fear, of
human intention. We have a great deal of difficulty seeing anything
other than human causation.' We naturally generalized that to
divine intention. I shall return to the seductiveness of 'agents' in
Chapter 5.
Biologists, with their raised consciousness of the power of
natural selection to explain the rise of improbable things, are
unlikely to be satisfied with any theory that evades the problem of
improbability altogether. And the theistic response to the riddle
of improbability is an evasion of stupendous proportions. It is more
than a restatement of the problem, it is a grotesque amplification of
it. Let's turn, then, to the anthropic alternative. The anthropic
answer, in its most general form, is that we could only be discussing
the question in the kind of universe that was capable of producing
us. Our existence therefore determines that the fundamental
constants of physics had to be in their respective Goldilocks zones.
Different physicists espouse different kinds of anthropic solutions
to the riddle of our existence.
Hard-nosed physicists say that the six knobs were never free to
vary in the first place. When we finally reach the long-hoped-for
Theory of Everything, we shall see that the six key numbers depend
upon each other, or on something else as yet unknown, in ways that
we today cannot imagine. The six numbers may turn out to be no
freer to vary than is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its
diameter. 
It will turn out that there is only one way for a universe
to be. Far from God being needed to twiddle six knobs, there are
no knobs to twiddle.
Other physicists (Martin Rees himself would be an example)
find this unsatisfying, and I think I agree with them. It is indeed
perfectly plausible that there is only one way for a universe to be.
But why did that one way have to be such a set-up for our eventual
evolution? Why did it have to be the kind of universe which seems
almost as if, in the words of the theoretical physicist Freeman
Dyson, it 'must have known we were coming'? The philosopher
John Leslie uses the analogy of a man sentenced to death by firing
squad. It is just possible that all ten men of the firing squad will
miss their victim. With hindsight, the survivor who finds himself in
a position to reflect upon his luck can cheerfully say, 'Well,
W H Y T H !• R E A I. M O S "I" C 1- R T A 1 N L Y i S NO C, O I) 1 4 5
obviously they all missed, or I wouldn't be here thinking about it.'
But he could still, forgivably, wonder why they all missed, and toy
with the hypothesis that they were bribed, or drunk.
This objection can be answered by the suggestion, which Martin
Rees himself supports, that there are many universes, co-existing
like bubbles of foam, in a 'multiverse' (or 'megaverse', as Leonard
Susskind prefers to call it). The laws and constants of any one
universe, such as our observable universe, are by-laws. The multiverse
as a whole has a plethora of alternative sets of by-laws. The
anthropic principle kicks in to explain that we have to be in one of
those universes (presumably a minority) whose by-laws happened
to be propitious to our eventual evolution and hence contemplation
of the problem.

Saying you can’t comprehend God makes the concept of God itself unintelligible, dismissing logical problems with a theory justifies believing ANYTHING because any response is just “you don’t understand”
Ayer ‘73
(A.J., Lecturer at Oxford, in “Atheism: A Reader”, Edited by S.T. Joshi, p. 96)
I said this was a satire, but the words which are put into Jowett's mouth represent a point of view which is still not uncommon. People who try to justify their belief in the existence of God by saying that it rests on faith are sometimes maintaining no more than that the proposition that God exists is one which they have the right to accept, in default of sufficient evidence; but sometimes they look to faith for the assurance that the words "God exists" express some true proposition, though they do not know what this proposition is; it is one that surpasses human understanding. The first of these positions is discussable, though I think it misguided, but the second is merely disingenuous. Until we have an intelligible proposition before us, there is nothing for faith to get to work on. It can be an article of faith that beings of superhuman intelligence, if there are any, entertain propositions that we cannot grasp. This requires only that we can make sense of the expression "beings with superhuman intelligence." But if we really cannot grasp these propositions, if the sentences which purport to express them have no meaning for us, then the fact, if it were a fact, that they did have meaning for some other beings would be of little interest to us; for this meaning might be anything whatsoever. The truth is, however, that those who take this position do understand, or think they understand, something by the words "God exists." It is only when the account they give of what they understand appears unworthy of credence that they take refuge in saying that it falls short of what the words really mean. But words have no meaning beyond the meaning that is given them, and a proposition is not made the more credible by being treated as an approximation to something that we do not find intelligible.

There’s only a risk the afterlife sucks just as much as this one
Russell, 27—Bertrand, “Why I Am Not a Christian” Lecture delivered in London to the National Secular Society and published in the 1957 book Why I am Not a Christian And Other Essays— http://users.drew.edu/~jlenz/whynot.html
The Argument for the Remedying of Injustice Then there is another very curious form of moral argument, which is this: they say that the existence of God is required in order to bring justice into the world. In the part of this universe that we know there is great injustice, and often the good suffer, and often the wicked prosper, and one hardly knows which of those is the more annoying; but if you are going to have justice in the universe as a whole you have to suppose a future life to redress the balance of life here on earth. So they say that there must be a God, and there must be Heaven and Hell in order that in the long run there may be justice. That is a very curious argument. If you looked at the matter from a scientific point of view, you would say, "After all, I only know this world. I do not know about the rest of the universe, but so far as one can argue at all on probabilities one would say that probably this world is a fair sample, and if there is injustice here the odds are that there is injustice elsewhere also." Supposing you got a crate of oranges that you opened, and you found all the top layer of oranges bad, you would not argue, "The underneath ones must be good, so as to redress the balance." You would say, "Probably the whole lot is a bad consignment"; and that is really what a scientific person would argue about the universe. He would say, "Here we find in this world a great deal of injustice, and so far as that goes that is a reason for supposing that justice does not rule in the world; and therefore so far as it goes it affords a moral argument against deity and not in favor of one." Of course I know that the sort of intellectual arguments that I have been talking to you about are not what really moves people. What really moves people to believe in God is not any intellectual argument at all. Most people believe in God because they have been taught from early infancy to do it, and that is the main reason. Then I think that the next most powerful reason is the wish for safety, a sort of feeling that there is a big brother who will look after you. That plays a very profound part in influencing people's desire for a belief in God.

==Private Military Contractors Negative== 

Read vs. Mountain Brook at Ohio Valley.

===Winning The War Now=== 

Momentum’s shifting our way – we should stay and fight
Carlotta Gall, NY Times staff writer, 10/20/2010, "Coalition Forces Routing Taliban in Key Afghan Region," http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/21/world/asia/21kandahar.html?_r=1&scp=2&sq=carlotta gall&st=cse, access 10/25/10
American and Afghan forces have been routing the Taliban in much of Kandahar Province in recent weeks, forcing many hardened fighters, faced with the buildup of American forces, to flee strongholds they have held for years, NATO commanders, local Afghan officials and residents of the region said. Afghans waited Wednesday at Camp Nathan Smith in Kandahar to submit claims for compensation from coalition forces. A series of civilian and military operations around the strategic southern province, made possible after a force of 12,000 American and NATO troops reached full strength here in the late summer, has persuaded Afghan and Western officials that the Taliban will have a hard time returning to areas they had controlled in the province that was their base. Some of the gains seem to have come from a new mobile rocket that has pinpoint accuracy — like a small cruise missile — and has been used against the hideouts of insurgent commanders around Kandahar. That has forced many of them to retreat across the border into Pakistan. Disruption of their supply lines has made it harder for them to stage retaliatory strikes or suicide bombings, at least for the moment, officials and residents said. NATO commanders are careful not to overstate their successes — they acknowledge they made that mistake earlier in the year when they undertook a high-profile operation against Marja that did not produce lasting gains. But they say they are making “deliberate progress” and have seized the initiative from the insurgents. Western and Afghan civilian officials are more outspoken, saying that heavy losses for the Taliban have sapped the momentum the insurgency had in the area. Unlike the Marja operation, they say, the one in Kandahar is a comprehensive civil and military effort that is changing the public mood as well as improving security. “We now have the initiative. We have created momentum,” said Maj. Gen. Nick Carter, the British commander of the NATO coalition forces in southern Afghanistan, who has overseen the Kandahar operation for the last year. “It is everything put together in terms of the effort that has gone in over the last 18 months and it is undoubtedly having an impact.” NATO forces have experienced setbacks in other parts of Afghanistan, and some military officials say the advances in Kandahar may not represent a turning point in the overall war effort. The Taliban, for example, have surprised the Americans by asserting control over some areas in the northern part of Afghanistan, from which they had once been almost entirely eliminated. But Kandahar represents the heartland of the Taliban insurgency and is the main focus of the large influx of American troops and Afghan government forces. “Afghans will tell you, if you have a peaceful Kandahar, you will have a peaceful Afghanistan,” General Carter said. “I think only time will tell.” The civilian and military effort in Kandahar has been 18 months in the planning. Only after thousands of extra troops were in place at the end of August — part of the surge of 30,000 troops President Obama ordered last year — did the operations finally begin producing results. The combined strength of 12,000 American and NATO troops and some 7,000 Afghan security forces in the province has meant that for the first time they are able to mount operations simultaneously in all of the most critical areas of the province. Beginning in August, Afghan forces spearheaded a clearing operation in Mehlajat, on the southern edge of the city of Kandahar. Soon after, American forces pushed through much of Arghandab, a strategic rural district that leads into the city from the north. At the same time troops from the 101st Airborne Division moved into Zhare District to the southwest, where they initially encountered strong resistance. By the middle of this month, forces were poised to retake the most nefarious area of all, the horn of Panjwai, an area 19 miles long and 6 miles wide where the Taliban had built up a redoubt of command posts, courts and mined areas over the last four years. Afghan and American troops mounted an airborne assault into the region last weekend. Apparently surprised by the intensity of the strikes on their supply routes, bomb factories and command compounds, many Taliban commanders pulled out to Pakistan, and most of the fighters have also slipped away or hidden their weapons, NATO commanders, local residents and the Taliban themselves say. Lt. Col. Rodger Lemons, commanding Task Force 1-66 in Arghandab, said he had seen insurgent attacks drop from 50 a week in August to 15 a week two months later. That may be because of the onset of colder weather, when fighting tends to drop off, but Colonel Lemons said he felt the Taliban was losing heart. “A lot are getting killed,” he said. “They are not receiving support from the local population, they are complaining that the local people are not burying their dead, and they are saying: ‘We are losing so many we want to go back home.’ ” Military and civilian officials say there are also signs of a crisis in command as Taliban leaders have struggled to maintain logistics and supply routes, suicide bombers have failed to turn up for attacks, and even senior commanders were showing reluctance to follow orders from their leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, to go in to fight the NATO onslaught in Panjwai. The Taliban have described their pullback as a tactical retreat, saying that fighters have gone to the city of Kandahar instead to conduct bombings and rocket attacks like those Saturday night outside the prison and the police station. Yet residents say that the Taliban have been stunned by fast-paced raids on their leaders and bases. In particular they talk with awe of a powerful new rocket that has been fired from the Kandahar air base into Panjwai and other areas for the last two or three weeks, hitting Taliban compounds with remarkable accuracy. The rocket curls and turns in the air as it zooms in on its target and sets off secondary explosions, often burning the trees and foliage around buildings, one landowner from the Panjwai District said. In an interview, General Carter said the weapon the Afghans saw was most likely the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or Himars, a relatively new multiple rocket system. “They are extraordinarily precise; they are accurate to a meter,” he said. A Taliban fighter reached by telephone, who spoke to a reporter only on condition that he not be named, confirmed that the insurgents had pulled back but would seek to reinfiltrate once the main push was over. “We are not there anymore, we are not preparing to fight a big battle, but we are waiting,” he said. “We are waiting until this force has been exhausted and has done all they are supposed to do, and later on our fighters will re-enter the area.” But the Afghan police and officials say the Taliban have been severely weakened. “We broke their neck,” said Hajji Niaz Muhammad, the police chief in the Arghandab District. “There is no doubt they are very weak in this area now.”

===RMA Disadvantage=== 

Plan causes RMA shift
Owens, 1ac author, 8 – Navy Admiral and Former Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (William, "A Lean War Machine", 12-21, Lexis, LEQ)
The saddest thing about this is that the Pentagon tends to make cuts by trying to stretch and shave existing programs. What President Dwight D. Eisenhower called the ''military-industrial complex'' is resurgent, this time driven by defense contractors. Their myopic drive to assure quarterly profits stifles innovation. And little changes because they wield inordinate influence through contracts in nearly every Congressional district.
There is a better way, one that turns the necessity of cost reductions into a military more suited to the national security challenges we will face down the road. We need to realize the principles of what military planners called the ''revolution of military affairs'' of the mid-1990s. To do so calls for innovations in three areas: first, a joint-service perspective that emphasizes the interdependence of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps; second, investment that focuses on cutting-edge information technology systems that allow our forces to work together more effectively, rather than more spending on the complex and expensive major weapons systems of the past; and last, changes in the way the Pentagon goes about assessing its needs and contracting.
''Jointness'' can reduce redundancies: by acting separately, the services needlessly duplicate one another's efforts in logistics, communications, intelligence, medical services and administration -- not to mention several areas of war-fighting. Because each service operates its bases independently, we have far too many. Consolidating them into ''megabases'' would make for greater effectiveness and save tens of billions. Likewise, an emphasis on information technology can increase the strength of the force while it reduces the need for manpower, the single most expensive aspect of today's military.

The impact is Russian and Chinese nuclear modernization and jacked up threat perception
Moore, 2000 (Mike, senior editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “Unintended Consequences,” February, vol. 56, no. 01, www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=jf00moore)
Central to the Revolution in Military Affairs is the belief that seamlessly integrated joint efforts--army, navy, air force, and marines--and networked information systems linked to precision conventional weapons fired at a distance will win wars. The distinction between tactical and strategic weapons--which has always been fuzzy--is rapidly disappearing. U.S. progress in developing systems and strategies for high-tech war has long worried analysts in countries that conceivably could be subjected at some point to U.S. military intimidation. In the foreseeable future, goes the argument, the United States will no longer need nuclear weapons to hold distant strategic targets hostage. It will be able to strike with lethal accuracy with land-, air-, sea-, or space-launched conventional weapons, virtually at will. "There are no grounds on which to speak of U.S. intentions, since we do not know what they are," writes Vitaly Tsymbal, a Russian military analyst in the June/July 1997 issue of Yaderny Kontrol (Nuclear Control). "We can, however, speak of military and technical capabilities, and they will soon make it possible to launch a destructive [conventional] strike against Russia's strategic forces, thereby depriving Russia of any significant capability whatsoever of launching a counter-strike against facilities located on U.S. territory or other facilities with which the U.S.A. associates its vital interests. "Because of these very qualities, the new weapons may destroy the status quo of strategic stability for two reasons: 1) the temptation to use these weapons on the part of the side monopolizing their possession, thereby immediately solving all problems; and 2) an act of despair on the part of the other side, having suddenly become cognizant of the violation of the balance of forces and the dramatic decline of its own role." (Emphasis in the original.) Two Chinese air force colonels apparently share similar concerns. In a book published in February 1999 by the People's Liberation Army (and described in the November/December 1999 issue of the Bulletin), Qiao Liang and Wang Xianghui look at the lead the United States has in information systems, precision weapons, and joint warfare doctrine and suggest that China is not likely to catch up. Rather, they say, China ought to consider adopting a more expansive view of warfare, one that not only embodies nuclear, conventional, and high-tech weapons and techniques, but biochemical war, ecological war, guerrilla war, and terrorist war as well. The book, whose title translates as Warfare Beyond Rules: Judgment of War and Methods of War in the Era of Globalization, is hardly Chinese doctrine. But it is said to be making a stir in China's military circles. From Russia and China, the messages are varied and often unclear. But one of them seems to be that the United States is far ahead--and will remain far ahead--in high-tech weaponry and strategy. Given that, it might be useful to have lower-tech weapons of mass destruction around--especially nuclear weapons--as a deterrent. After all, national leaders cannot simply assume that U.S. intentions will be forever benign. They must also look at capabilities. The United States scores remarkably high on that scale. If it ever chooses to become a global hegemon, it may be able to produce the hardware to pull it off. Meanwhile, it already has the doctrine, albeit in still skeletal form. 

Global nuclear war
Pry 1999 – former CIA military analyst (Peter Vincent, “War Scare”, p. xv-xvi)
The General Staff is probably more important to the future of U.S.-Russian relations--indeed, to the future of humankind--than are Russia's democratic reformers, because the General Staff controls Russia's vast nuclear arsenal. Much has been made in the press about the Russian president's "nuclear briefcase," which supposedly enables him to preside over Russia's strategic nuclear forces. However, the best evidence indicates that the president "controls" the nuclear arsenal only in a legal sense. Even the designer of the "briefcase" acknowledges that it is merely a communications device connecting the president to the General Staff. It is the General Staff that has the actual, technical capability to launch a nuclear strike. Russia's president is powerless to prevent the General Staff from starting and waging a global nuclear war. Russian civilian defense experts, such as Alexei Arbatov, have warned that Russia's dangerous nuclear command and control arrangement enables the General Staff to operate autonomously, even against the wishes of civilian authority. Perhaps our proximity to disaster should be measured not by the friendly reassurances of Russian democrats but by the more malevolent attitudes displayed by the General Staff, whose finger is on the nuclear trigger.
Continues…
The General Staff's fearful view of recent history is all the more disturbing in that it is so sharply at variance with the Western perspective that there is no danger. There is a high risk that in the future the General Staff will again fantasize crises or imagine threats where none exist and that again the world will be brought to the brink of nuclear catastrophe. Our failure to understand the General Staff's perspective and our ignorance of the recent peril increases the possibility that the United States could, through miscalculation, unintentionally provoke a nuclear war with Russia. 

===PMCs Good Frontline=== 

The plan collapses the war effort, two reasons:

A) We can’t fight without PMCs—benefits outweigh costs
Goure 2010 – PhD in IR from Johns Hopkins, vice president of the Lexington Institute, former Deputy Director of the International Security Program at CSIS (6/18, Daniel, Lexington Institute, “Private Contractors Still Vital To Operations In Iraq And Afghanistan”, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/private-contractors-still-vital-to-operations-in-iraq-and-afghanistan?a=1&c=1171, WEA)
Private contractors provide a range of critical services. Most are involved in base support operations, transportation and security. However, a significant number are engaged in critical maintenance and repair work. Particularly when new systems have been deployed, such as the Stryker brigade combat teams and the MRAPs, the military has turned to private contractors to perform critical support functions. One company, Insitu, has been providing UAV-based surveillance support to the Marine Corps in Iraq and now Afghanistan for years.
Private security contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan have raised a lot of concern. Nevertheless, there are over 20 companies with more than 10,000 armed employees that are continuing to operate in the theater. Contractors providing support services to the military are often required to hire private security companies to protect their people and facilities because the U.S. military refuses to take on that responsibility. Now the State Department is creating its own army to protect its personnel that will remain in Iraq after the U.S. withdraws all its combat forces. The State Department has requested the Pentagon to provide 24 Black Hawks, 50 bomb-resistant vehicles, heavy cargo trucks, fuel trailers, and high-tech surveillance systems. This equipment will be operated by private security contractors and maintained by other private companies, some of whom are doing the same job in Iraq today.
One company that has gotten a bad rap is KBR. There have been some problems with its performance, such as billing issues and instances of substandard performance. However, what this company was asked to do in Iraq was unprecedented. KBR essentially built and sustained the array of bases, camps and outposts which allowed the U.S. military to operate in Iraq. It provided basic services for hundreds of thousands of uniformed personnel, government civilians and contractor personnel in Iraq. The ultimate evidence of KBR’s critical role in supporting the warfighters is that the Army is continuing to employ it in Iraq under its old contract even after a new contract was issued.
The reality is that the United States will never go to war again without its “Fifth Service.” There are certainly problems with relying on private contractors in a war zone. But the advantages of using private contractors far outweigh the disadvantages. 

B) Ensuing backlash and politicized warfighting
Pervez 2010 – FPIF contributor (August, Fouad, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Blackwater: Can't Stop, Won't Stop”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/blackwater_cant_stop_wont_stop)
However, the reason companies like Blackwater, even with their troubling histories, are in demand in the first place has to do with U.S. grand strategy. American foreign policy has become increasingly aggressive over the years, under both Republican and Democratic administrations. It is not just increased aggression, but increased residency — we keep a presence in more places than before. For instance, there are more than 850 U.S. military bases overseas, a number that does not include bases in Iraq, Afghanistan, or other sensitive locations. An all-volunteer army exacerbates the problem, as there are fewer troops to handle a larger mission. Engaged in two major conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and maintaining bases and troops in over 100 countries translates into serious military overstretch. American foreign policy from the 1940s on, especially toward Western Europe, has been consistently geared toward global hegemony. Instead of passing the buck to Western Europe at critical junctures when it would have been better and cheaper to do so, the United States undermined Western European efforts to gain military independence and autonomy during the Cold War because it was more concerned with global hegemony than the Soviet threat. The United States seems unwilling to scale back its global military presence. The Obama administration’s National Security Strategy no longer explicitly opposes the rise of any real competitor. But the divergence with the Bush administration approach is somewhat cosmetic. Obama does call for a decrease in direct uses of power and acknowledges that America has no real rival, but does not rule out unilateral action and, more importantly, calls for a maintenance of the level of U.S. military superiority. More troops are necessary to keep up with the mission. This is where private military contractors like Blackwater become important. These modern-day Hessians provide America a significant amount of needed foot soldiers. They come with other perks as well — they are often beyond the reach of military rules of law, allowing them greater discretion in inflicting disproportionate force to pacify areas. More significantly, increased Blackwater troops mean fewer official U.S. troops. Private military troops now outnumber U.S. troops in Afghanistan. The advantage of a private military to a political leader is the public cost. Military deaths play a significant role in American foreign policy. The rising troop deaths in Vietnam eventually turned the public against that war. However, if the soldiers are increasingly from private companies, public costs decline. Except for the occasional anomaly, such as the hanging of four Blackwater troops off a bridge in Fallujah, no news headlines announce the deaths of Blackwater soldiers. 

The impact is global nuclear war
Carafano, 10 – senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies. (James, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1/2 http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)
Not much chance Obama will go that route. If the violence skyrockets next year and it looks as though the president’s ambitious objectives can’t be met, Afghanistan could look a lot more like Vietnam in 1973. U.S. forces withdrew. Our abandoned ally was soon overrun. South Vietnam became a gulag; Cambodia sprouted the killing fields; life in Laos was just plain lousy. By 1979, the Sino-Vietnamese war erupted.
We can expect similar results if Obama’s Afghan strategy fails and he opts to cut and run. Most forget that throwing South Vietnam to the wolves made the world a far more dangerous place.
The Soviets saw it as an unmistakable sign that America was in decline. They abetted military incursions in Africa, the Middle East, southern Asia and Latin America. They went on a conventional- and nuclear-arms spending spree. They stockpiled enough smallpox and anthrax to kill the world several times over. State-sponsorship of terrorism came into fashion.
Osama bin Laden called America a “paper tiger.” If we live down to that moniker in Afghanistan, odds are the world will get a lot less safe. Al-Qaida would be back in the game. Regional terrorists would go after both Pakistan and India—potentially triggering a nuclear war between the two countries.
Sensing a Washington in retreat, Iran and North Korea could shift their nuclear programs into overdrive, hoping to save their failing economies by selling their nuclear weapons and technologies to all comers. Their nervous neighbors would want nuclear arms of their own.
The resulting nuclear arms race could be far more dangerous than the Cold War’s two-bloc standoff. With multiple, independent, nuclear powers cautiously eyeing one another, the world would look a lot more like Europe in 1914, when precarious shifting alliances snowballed into a very big, tragic war.

It also annihilates credibility and increases conflict globally
Twining ‘9 (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)
The surreal belief in some quarters that abandoning Afghanistan -- described as a "graveyard of empires" with its complicated tribes, forbidding terrain, and peripheral strategic importance -- would not have direct and bloody consequences for the United States, never mind the Afghan people, can be answered with three numbers: 9-11. It is troubling that our political and foreign policy elites even need to engage this debate (including its more sophisticated but equally illusory variants like moving to an "over-the-horizon" strike-and-retreat strategy). At the same time, the experts (correctly) advocating a counterinsurgency strategy make the same mistake of framing their arguments purely with reference to Afghanistan's internal dynamics. As important as they are, they constitute only part of a wider strategic landscape that would be upended by a U.S. decision to reduce its political and military commitment to Afghanistan. A recent trip to Islamabad and Lahore revealed to me that most Pakistani elites -- including the small minority that could credibly be described as sympathetic to Western goals in Afghanistan -- already believe that the game is up: the will of the transatlantic allies is broken, Obama doesn't have the courage or vision to see America's mission in Afghanistan through to victory, and the U.S. is well along the road to walking away from Afghanistan as it did after 1989. This widespread Pakistani belief has encouraged behavior deeply inimical to Washington's regional aims, with the effect that the American debate over whether Afghanistan is worth it is inspiring Pakistani actions that will make success all the harder to achieve. After all, why shouldn't the Pakistani security services continue to invest in their friendly relations with the Taliban if Mullah Omar and company soon will take power in Afghanistan's Pashtun heartland? Why should the Pakistani military take on the militant groups that regularly launch cross-border attacks into Afghanistan when the NATO targets of those attacks will soon slink away in defeat? Why should the Pakistani government get serious about wrapping up the Quetta Shura when the Afghan Taliban appears to be ascendant in the face of Western weakness? Why should Pakistan's intelligence service break its ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, one of the world's most potent terrorist groups, when it forms such a useful instrument with which to bleed U.S. ally India? And why should Pakistani civilian and military leaders overtly cooperate with the United States when it appears such a weak and unreliable ally of the Afghan people -- incapable, despite its singular wealth and resources, of defeating a 25,000-man insurgency in one of the poorest countries on Earth? As Chris Brose and I recently argued, it is vital for the West to prevail in Afghanistan because of its effect in shaping Pakistan's strategic future. Proponents of drawing down in Afghanistan on the grounds that Pakistan is the more important strategic prize have it only half right: if Pakistan is the strategic prize, it should be unthinkable not to press for victory in Afghanistan given the spillover effects of a Western defeat there. All of Pakistan's pathologies -- from terrorist sanctuary in ungoverned spaces, to radicalized public opinion that creates an enabling environment for violent extremism, to lack of economic opportunity that incentivizes militancy, to the (in)security of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, to the military's oversized role in political life in ways that stunt the development of civilian institutions -- all of this will intensify should Afghanistan succumb to the Taliban as the West withdraws. These dynamics, in turn, will destabilize India in ways that could torpedo the country's rise to world power -- and the strategic dividends America would reap from India's success. New Delhi is now a truer proponent of Washington's original objectives in Afghanistan -- the Taliban's decisive defeat by military force rather than reconciliation and the construction of a capable Afghan democracy -- than some American leaders are now. Afghanistan is in India's backyard -- they shared a border until 1947 -- and the collapse of its government would destabilize Pakistan in ways that would quickly cost Indian dearly. Indian strategists fear that the spillover from a Taliban victory in Afghanistan would induce Pakistan's "Lebanonization," with the Pakistani Taliban becoming a kind of South Asian Hezbollah that would launch waves of crippling attacks against India. India cannot rise to be an Asian balancer, global security provider, and engine of the world economy if it is mired in interminable proxy conflict with terrorists emanating from a weak or collapsing state armed with nuclear weapons on its border. The strategic implications of a Western defeat in Afghanistan for American relations with other major powers are similarly troubling. The biggest game-changer in the nuclear standoff with Iran is not new sanctions or military action but a popular uprising by the Iranian people that changes the character of the radical regime in Tehran -- a prospect one would expect to be meaningfully diminished by the usurpation through violence of the Afghan government, against the will of a majority of Afghans, by the religious extremists of the Taliban. And despite welcome new unity in the West on a tougher approach to Iran's development of nuclear weapons following revelations of a new nuclear complex in Qum, how can Washington, London, Paris, and Berlin stare down the leaders of Iran -- a potentially hegemonic Middle Eastern state with an advanced conventional and near-nuclear arsenal and a vast national resource base -- if they can't even hold their own against the cave-dwelling, Kalashnikov-wielding despots of the Taliban? Russia appears to be quietly reveling in the prospect that NATO, which appeared so threatening to Russian eyes during its multiple rounds of enlargement during the 1990s, could be defeated in its first real out-of-area operation. A NATO defeat in Afghanistan would call into question the future of the alliance and the credibility of American leadership with it, possibly creating a new and lasting transatlantic breach and intensifying concerns about the alliance's ability to protect weak European states against a resurgent Russia. China has no interest in Afghanistan's collapse into a sanctuary for Islamist extremists, including Uighers who militate against China's rule in Xinjiang. But a Western defeat in Afghanistan, which if historical precedent holds would be followed by a bout of U.S. isolationism, would only create more space for China to pursue its (for now) peaceful rise. And that is the point: the debate over whether to prevail in Afghanistan is about so much more. An American recommitment to a sustained counterinsurgency strategy that turned around the conflict would demonstrate that the United States and its democratic allies remain the principal providers of public goods -- in this case, the security and stability of a strategically vital region that threatens the global export of violent extremism -- in the international system. A new and sustained victory strategy for Afghanistan would show that Washington is singularly positioned to convene effective coalitions and deliver solutions to intractable international problems in ways that shore up the stability of an international economic and political order that has provided greater degrees of human freedom and prosperity than any other. By contrast, a U.S. decision to wash its hands of Afghanistan would send a different message to friends and competitors alike. It would hasten the emergence of a different kind of international order, one in which history no longer appeared to be on the side of the United States and its friends. Islamic extremism, rather than continuing to lose ground to the universal promise of democratic modernity, would gain new legs -- after all, Afghan Islamists would have defeated their second superpower in a generation. Rival states that contest Western leadership of the international order and reject the principles of open society would increase their influence at America's expense. Just as most Afghans are not prepared to live under a new Taliban regime, so most Americans are surely not prepared to live in a world in which the United States voluntarily cedes its influence, power, and moral example to others who share neither our interests nor our values.

===PMCs Good Block Cards=== 

This is a bigger internal link than the aff to heg – even if we’re strong cred means people don’t perceive it
TUNÇ 2K8 
(Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669)
Reputation can be defined as a judgment about an actor’s past behavior and character that is used to predict future behavior. In international politics, a major component of building or maintaining a country’s reputation involves resolve.5 Policy makers may believe that a lack of resolve in one military confrontation will be seen as an indication of general weakness.6 According to Shiping Tang, this concern frequently amounts to ‘‘a cult of reputation’’ among foreign policy makers, which he defines as ‘‘a belief system holding as its central premise a conviction (or fear) that backing down in a crisis will lead one’s adversaries or allies to underestimate one’s resolve in the next crisis.’’7 Of particular importance to the cult of reputation is concern about the consequences of withdrawal from a theater of war. The major dictate of the cult of reputation is that a country should stand firm and refuse to withdraw from a theater of war. The underlying belief is that a withdrawal would inflict a severe blow to a country’s reputation and thus ‘‘embolden’’ the adversaries by boosting commitment and recruitment to their cause.8 Since the end of World War II, a cult of reputation has evolved among certain American policy makers who maintain that being a global power means being able to convey the image of strength and resolve.9 According to this perspective, a reputation for firmness and resoluteness deters adversaries and reassures allies about U.S. commitments. Conversely, being perceived as weak and irresolute encourages adversaries to be more aggressive and results in allies being less supportive. This logic has had two general consequences for America’s use of force abroad: First, exhibiting resolve has been deemed necessary even in small and distant countries. This is because the mere perception of power generates tangible power, thereby reducing the need to use actual physical force against every adversary.10 In the 1950s and 1960s, this logic translated into military interventions in several places, notably in Korea and Vietnam, countries whose strategic value to the United States appeared questionable to some.11 Second, reputational concerns made it difficult for the United States to withdraw from a theater of war. The Vietnam War is the most prominent case, although the logic was also evident during the Korean conflict in the early 1950s.12 As is well-documented by historians, both the Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon administrations took reputation seriously and argued that leaving Vietnam without an ‘‘honorable’’ exit would seriously hurt U.S. credibility in the eyes of allies and adversaries alike. For both Johnson and Nixon, an ‘‘honorable’’ exit meant creating an autonomous South Vietnam (much like independent, anti-communist South Korea after the Korean war) that was recognized by all parties involved in the conflict, particularly by the North Vietnamese government. Such an outcome would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13

And, low credibility causes terrorism and Pakistani collapse
Javed, 10 –from a Pakistani Newspaper (3/5/10, Bassam, from BBC Monitoring International Reports “Pakistan article discusses implications of US withdrawal from Afghanistan,” Gale group)
The exasperated American surge-and-exit strategy reflects the increased frustration of the Western alliance, which has failed to bring about stability to Afghanistan. The exit part of any military strategy surly [as received] materializes successfully however, the stability part post withdrawal or exit of the affected country always remained dicey. Similarly, in case of Afghanistan, the case would not be any different as the exit would not yield any long term stability. To add to the frustration, the Dutch government's debacle over the issue of withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan, indicates the mood of the Western public over the issue. Also, the fact that no other country has come forward to-date to replace the Dutch forces in Afghanistan makes it evident that the withdrawal will be there soon. The withdrawal though, may portray America as weak but it has no choice since prolonging the stay any more would still tantamount to weakness any way. The withdrawal of foreign forces may not be wholesome but in parts over five to six years. Still, one might see the presence of a few thousand of them at the end, typically on the lines of Iraqi withdrawal. However, in the time leading up to the phased withdrawal, there are more fervent public voices calling for immediate withdrawal of their respective forces from Afghanistan. Amongst the rising tide of like minded people in favour of withdrawal, there are some lonely voices too that are heard on and off calling for continuation of deployment of Western forces in Afghanistan. This segment of the society is skeptical of post withdrawal scenario in Afghanistan. The apprehensions on the withdrawal are many. The most important geopolitical repercussion of the withdrawal being cited would be the perception that America stands defeated in the long drawn Afghan war. The others include the perception that the withdrawal will lead to the Taleban returning to power in Afghanistan, the Taleban allowing Al-Qa'idah renewed access to the country, and Al-Qa'idah making use of Afghanistan to successfully attack the West again. The withdrawal will have its implications on Pakistan too and as such, it must prepare itself to confront all challenges emerging out of the event and exert its weight in stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan. This will be all the more difficult as other countries like India and Iran will also be vying to get some stakes in Afghanistan upon withdrawal of foreign forces from there. Some of the scenarios that might develop out of the situation then would be discussed hereafter in this article. The Northern Alliance would continue to be supported by Russia, India and Iran in the post withdrawal Afghanistan. The Pashtuns, who ruled Afghanistan for over 200 years, having been denied their due right in the Afghan polity under the US occupation, would resist the dominance of the Northern Alliance with the tacit support of its war time friends for Kabul that may result in further bloodshed. Pakistan may again face the burden of the refugees and a destabilized Afghanistan yet again, which would be detrimental to its overall security. Since there exists a lot of disparity within the Afghan society, the Afghan strife will continue that may lead to formation of fresh alliances between various Afghan factions to develop some equilibrium, which resultantly could prolong instability in Afghanistan. The interim period would be exploited by India to cement its foothold in Afghan affairs much to the detriment of Pakistan's interests. The withdrawal may also encourage fundamentalists and extremists the world over, who may be inspired by the resilience of Afghans and their success in forcing foreign military powers out of their lands and as such adopt as means of achieving victories. The perceptions amongst the Afghan Taleban that Pakistan has been siding with the Western forces against them may lead to their disenchantment with Pakistan and they may be inclined to work against its interests. Pakistan does not enjoy very good relations with the Northern Alliance. As such, it will be difficult for it to negotiate an ultimate power sharing deal between the Northern Alliance and the Taleban, if it may try to at some point of time.

Faster timeframe to Taliban takeover and victory
Bergen, 9 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510)
In August, President Obama laid out the rationale for stepping up the fight in Afghanistan: If left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even larger safe haven from which al-Qaeda would plot to kill more Americans. So this is not only a war worth fighting. This is fundamental to the defense of our people. Obamas Af-Pak plan is, in essence, a countersanctuary strategy that denies safe havens to the Taliban and al-Qaeda, with the overriding goal of making America and its allies safer. Under Obama, the Pentagon has already sent a surge of 21,000 troops to Afghanistan, and the Administration is even weighing the possibility of deploying as many as 40,000 more.
This is a sound policy. If U.S. forces were not in Afghanistan, the Taliban, with its al-Qaeda allies in tow, would seize control of the country's south and east and might even take it over entirely. A senior Afghan politician told me that the Taliban would be in Kabul within 24 hours without the presence of international forces. This is not because the Taliban is so strong; generous estimates suggest it numbers no more than 20,000 fighters. It is because the Afghan government and the 90,000--man Afghan army are still so weak.

This makes no sense—we cite better experts and wouldn’t bother using PMCs if they failed
Cotton & Petersohn et al 2010 (Sarah & Ulrich, Security analysts at RAND corporation, “Hired Guns Views About Armed Contractors in Operation Iraqi Freedom”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/MG987/)
Army Field Manual (FM) 3-100.21 considers contractors, both armed and unarmed, as a valuable means of augmenting capabilities and generating a force multiplier effect (Department of the Army, 1999). Greater support from contractors permits the Army to deploy fewer combat service support personnel and allows the operational com- mander greater leeway in designing a force. With regard to armed contractors specifi- cally, this school of thought holds that when PSCs provide bodyguards and nonmili- tary site and convoy security, they relieve soldiers from having to perform these duties. In this way, employing PSCs generates advantages similar to using unarmed contrac- tors as substitutes for regular troops (Garcia-Perez, 1999; Schreier and Caparini, 2005). Skeptics, however, hold that the operations of PSCs may inadvertently place additional strain on the armed forces. This is because, when contractors engage the enemy in the course of their work, they may require rapid support from the military.1 In short, this school of thought holds that PSCs can at times cause more strain than relief for the armed forces, because they may need military aid when under attack. Although such logic applies to both armed and unarmed contractors, the fact that armed contractors have the ability to engage the enemy in a firefight makes this line of thought more applicable to them than to other types of contractors. In this study, personnel within both the military and the State Department tended to consider PSCs a force multiplier rather than an additional strain on military troops, although such a feeling was much more pronounced among respondents who had direct experience with armed contractors. Two-thirds of the U.S. military and more than half of the DoS personnel surveyed who had experience interacting with armed contractors felt it was typically true that contractors were a means of enabling more combat units to be deployed. Yet, given our high expectations for contractors’ contri- butions to the force, it is surprising that 20 to 30 percent of the entire pool of both military and DoS respondents felt that armed contractors are not force multipliers. However, relatively few military personnel reported having to provide a quick reaction force (QRF) to come to the aid of armed contractors (Figure S.5), with nearly 60 percent of those with experience interacting with armed contractors never having had to do so and over 10 percent sometimes having had to do so. These numbers indicate that instances in which the U.S. military has had to intervene on behalf of PSCs are not the rule, but they clearly need to be considered as part of the cost of relying on armed contractors. Overall, PSCs are generally viewed as a welcome force multiplier among both military and State Department diplomatic personnel, with troops who have had more contact with them showing the most enthusiasm about their contributions in this area.

This is nastyfalse—only PMCs solve
Fontaine and Nagl 2009 – senior fellow at CNAS, former foreign policy advisor to McCain and Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, President of CNAS (Richard and John, Center for a New American Strategy, “Contractors in American Conflicts: Adapting to a New Reality”, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/ContractorConflicts_FontaineNagl_Dec2009_workingpaper_1.pdf, WEA)
In addition to the economic forces pushing the U.S. government in the direction of increased reliance on contractors, changes in the character of warfare are accelerating the trend on the battlefield. Contractors are often required to help maintain technically sophisticated weaponry and to construct and sustain large, enduring base camps or logistical nodes from which to operate. Long-term nation-building efforts like those in Iraq and Afghanistan require an array of functions – from advising and training foreign security forces to constructing and maintaining power plants and waterworks – that the U.S. government is not manned to carry out on its own. And the speed with which commanders require support in the field, particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan, places a priority on extending quick requests for bids from outside contractors.
Future conflicts are likely to be more like American engagements in the Balkans, Colombia (via “Plan Colombia”), Iraq, and Afghanistan, and less like Operation Desert Storm. To the extent that future wars involve messy insurgencies and attempts to boost host government legitimacy, rather than conventional battles between massed armies, contractors will continue to play a large and prominent role. To extinguish support for insurgencies, build the security forces of host governments, expand the capacity to provide services to local populations, create jobs, train civil services, and construct (or reconstruct) infrastructure, the U.S. government will rely to an enormous extent on the use of private contractors.
Perhaps most fundamentally, the U.S. military simply is not large enough to handle all of the functions contractors carry out on the battlefield. By employing contractors, America has been able to maintain a much smaller standing Army than would otherwise be required, reduce the political costs associated with U.S. deployments (American soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines killed in combat are listed in casualty totals and featured in “faces of the fallen” tributes; American contractors killed in the line of duty barely factor), quickly draw on pools of expertise and manpower in the face of unexpected events, and attempt to reduce the cost to government in between times of war. In Afghanistan today, commander General Stanley McChrystal reportedly favors the employment of additional private contractors in order to shift military personnel out of non-combat roles and into “trigger-puller” activities.
The large-scale employment of contracted support on the battlefield is now all but irreversible. Indeed, as one recent report put it, “reliance on private contractors is not going away any time soon. It is the new reality, not only of foreign policy in the 21st century, but also of war fighting.”23 The U.S. military can fight nothing but the most limited engagements without the extensive use of contractors, and the State Department and USAID will continue to rely on contractors to carry out a great deal of reconstruction work. Since it is unlikely that the (statutorily limited) U.S. force structure will increase dramatically in the years ahead, and likely that American commitments overseas will remain great or even increase, U.S. reliance on private ES&R contractors is here to stay. As the New York Times journalist Thomas Friedman put it in a recent column, “We’re also building a contractor-industrial-complex in Washington that has an economic interest in foreign expeditions. Doesn’t make it wrong; does make you want to be watchful.”24 

You should err towards reform because their ev is tainted by pessimism
Waller 2008 – (9/29, J. Michael, Institute for World Politics, “Private intelligence contracting is here to stay”, http://www.iwp.edu/news_publications/detail/private-intelligence-contracting-is-here-to-stay, WEA)
It’s easy for deskbound critics in Washington to snipe rhetorically at people hired in a national emergency to make a broken system work when American troops are dying in the field. Process and procedure are important, but in a war with people’s lives on the line, private contractors should be expected to legally and ethically go the extra mile to deliver as required in their government contracts—or simply deliver as promised.
In the Abu Ghraib case, the GAO pinned most of the blame on untrained or inexperienced contracting officers in government, not the contractors themselves.
The temptation of many of the public critics is to question the motives of the contractors, whether or not they do a good job. This comes from a cynical belief that people in business are in it for themselves, and just out to make a buck, whereas people in government tend to be more virtuous because they are public servants. The contracting sector has been slow to try to change that misperception.
New Limits and Greater Accountability
“Contracting in the intelligence community has more than doubled in scope in the last decade, and it’s clear that effective management and oversight is lacking,” says Rep. David Price (D-NC). “We’ve got to get a handle on it. That means demanding more complete information, establishing more effective management practices and, in some cases, drawing a red line to prevent the privatization of especially sensitive activities.”

The magnitude of the link is huge—can’t fight without them
Crofford 2006 – US Army Colonel, Army War College (Cliff, USAWC Strategy Research Project , “Private Security Contractors on the Battlefield”, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil320.pdf, WEA)
Since the Revolutionary War, the United States has relied on contractors and civilians to provide services and capabilities in order to complete its various missions.2 Following the end of the first Gulf War, the privatization of many military services took on a new urgency as the US followed through in reaping the “peace dividend” started by the collapse of the Berlin Wall. The US military eventually decreased its forces by 700,000 personnel. This decrease, combined with an international trend in privatization, led to a rise in the use of contractors, principally for logistical support. By hiring contractors to provide routine logistic and maintenance functions, the military could better focus its remaining force structure on its core competency of applying violence. In short, contractors were a way to both reduce military expenditures and to increase the ratio of “trigger-pulling” soldiers to support soldiers – also known as the “tooth-to-tail” ratio.3 The US military’s reliance on contractors for primarily logistic services changed dramatically with Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) in Iraq. The large presence of civilian contractor personnel in these conflicts, combined with tremendous demand on deployed military forces and the gravely dangerous security environment, created a growing demand for PSC services to ensure the safety of the large non-military entities in theater. As insurgents and terrorists began attacking softer civilian targets in addition to military targets, PSCs became necessary enablers for non-military organizations to successfully accomplish their intended purposes on the battlefield. PSCs contribute to the safety and security of a vast array of organizations and individuals: from other contractors, to US government agencies. Examples of PSC clients include the US Department of State, the US Army Corps of Engineers, and some top members of the military and civilian leadership in Iraq.4 
I do not address the debate of whether the application of violence should be contracted from a state to a private company. My starting point is the understanding that PSCs are currently a necessity and will be necessary in future conflicts. Furthermore, I do not discuss whether the application of violence is the sole domain of a state nor do I address whether these functions are “core” competencies of a state’s military forces and therefore not subject to become contracted services.5 At present, PSCs are a critical enabler for the US to effectively and efficiently complete its reconstruction and stability operations.6 I do not foresee significant changes in the need for PSCs for future operations similar to OIF and OEF. 

And, more warrants:

One, local expertise
ISENBERG 10 (David, Author, Shadow Force: Private Security Contractors in Iraq, March 11, “Private Military Contractors as Buzz Lightyear: To Afghanistan and Beyond”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-isenberg/private-military-contract_b_494834.html)
An underappreciated aspect of PMC working in Afghanistan is that due to their manpower, representation at the headquarters of inter-allied organizations, and their international connections, the PMCs are in a position to influence military decisions on operational matters. Employees of MPRI can be found throughout the hierarchy of International Security Assistance Force ((ISAF) and the Afghan security forces. They serve as mentors to armed forces general staff and to governments, help to draft doctrine for the Afghan National Army (ANA) as part of the Combined Training Advisory Group (CTAG), train officers at the Kabul Military Training Centre (KMTC) and provide instruction to specialists. Marie-Dominique Charlier was political adviser to the commander of International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan from February to August 2008. Last month she wrote in Le Monde diplomatique: That with in-depth knowledge of the Afghan theatre from tours of duty lasting two to four years, PMC personnel have unrivalled experience of local conditions. Their experience is a vital asset to the inter-allied staff officers whose tours of duty are rarely longer than six months. It allows them to co-ordinate, regulate and even promote the involvement of other PMCs and to steer the perceptions of the military in direction that suits them.

Two, logistics
Perez-Montes, 8 (Joseph H.L., J.D. Candidate 2009, Tulane University School of Law, "Justiciability in Modern War Zones: Is the Political Question Doctrine a Viable Bar to Tort Claims Against Private Military Contractors?", November, 83 Tul. L. Rev. 219, Lexis)
B. Privatizing the Modern Military The privatization trend has now transformed into a pervasive DOD reliance upon private contracting firms to provide innumerable services to the armed forces, both on and off the battlefield. n29 According to a report issued by the United States Air War College, the American military "no longer could function in a war zone without extensive technical and logistic help from private companies." n30 Indeed, the revamped structure of the military and the highly technical nature of the weapons and equipment that it uses buttress the conclusion that "the Armed Forces of the United States are [now] designed to be supported by capabilities provided by civilians." n31 This realization naturally raises the question: What caused the broad-based shift to outsourcing in the military arena? Private contractors have played at least some part in major military conflicts throughout American history, from the Revolutionary War n32 to the Persian Gulf War. n33 However, the massive presence of contractors in support of the U.S. war effort in Iraq and Afghanistan is unparalleled in history. n34 In explaining this phenomenon, Professor P.W. Singer, a renowned scholar at the Brookings Institution, explained that military privatization found its impetus at the end of the 1990s and was driven by three interrelated forces: (1) "the end of the Cold War," (2) "transformations in the nature of warfare that blurred the lines between soldiers and civilians," and (3) "a general trend toward privatization and outsourcing of government functions around the world." n35 Indeed, following the Cold War, the U.S. government made a concerted effort to limit the number of troops that it would deploy to [225] combat zones and the extent to which those uniformed personnel performed noncombat activities. n36 This effort, dubbed the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program (LOGCAP), has, since its inception, markedly reduced the size of troop deployments. n37 Subsequently, the privatization trend retained its influence in American foreign policy initiatives up to the deployment of combat forces in Iraq, which represents the largest concentration of private contractor personnel in a war zone in the nation's history. n38

Five, infrastructure
TWB 8 (“The Modern Mercenary”, Teachers Without Borders, http://courses.teacherswithoutborders.org/peace-studies/efficacy-of-private-military-contractors-in-peace/the-modern-mercenary)
The heart and soul of the contracting business is to provide capabilities to one’s client. In the context of an operation to establish positive peace within a turbulent state, companies have two such capabilities that could be provided: Services and Security. These are the same two functions that are being used in Iraq and Afghanistan today; however, how they are utilized in operations for creating peace differs from when they are supporting a military operation. Whereas most of the companies currently operating in Iraq are there in support of the US military, in a peace operation the focus would be on supporting the people of the country. That difference is quite important; it shifts the paradigm from being one of fighting the citizenry to one of cooperating with them. As demonstrated by the massive bases in Iraq that have been established by Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR), there exists a capability to use private companies to conduct reconstruction on a massive scale. Food, housing, power, potable water, fuel, education, and recreational services can all be provided by a private contractor. Being able to deploy these services to a populace in need is far more important in establishing positive peace than supporting an army to forcefully impose order. The ability to establish a self-sustaining infrastructure by both construction and training local specialists is crucial to maintaining stability after the contractors leave. All that is required to harness this capability is a contract.

The military has serious recruiting problems – they won’t be able to cover the plan
Haddick, 10 – managing editor of Small Wars Journal (Robert, This Week at War: Uncle Sam Wants You … Whoever You Are, 8/6, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/06/this_week_at_war_uncle_sam_wants_you_whoever_you_are)
The recently released Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) Independent Panel report called for an overhaul in the military's personnel system. The report concluded that compensation costs for the all-volunteer force have exploded and are no longer sustainable. Active-duty head count has declined from 2 million in 1991 to 1.37 million in 2009. Yet in spite of this 32 percent decline in head count, military personnel costs (in constant 2005 dollars) have grown from $122 billion in 1991 to $130 billion in 2009 ($60,939 per head in 1991 versus $94,533 per head in 2009, adjusted for inflation).
Even with this vast expansion in soldier compensation, the Army has had to reduce enlistment standards to fill its ranks. According to the QDR Independent Panel, these reduced standards include raising the maximum enlistment age to 42; accepting more recruits without high school diplomas, with criminal records, and in Category IV (low mental aptitude) on the Armed Forces Qualification Test; and increasing the numbers of noncitizens serving. The overall population of the United States is growing, but the cohort qualified and willing to volunteer for military service is shrinking. (Seventy-five percent of American youth are ineligible for military service for physical, mental, or educational reasons, or due to criminal records.) The prime recruiting base seems to be narrowing by geographic area and to families of veterans, increasingly turning military service into a "family guild."
Immediately after taking office, Defense Secretary Robert Gates directed the Army and Marine Corps to increase their headcounts in response to the pressures of Iraq and Afghanistan. Regrettably, this decision collided with the evaporating pool of suitable military recruits. The Army recently released a report that studied suicide prevention and the Army's mental-health issues. The report revealed a broader range of rising high-risk behaviors and criminality in the Army's ranks. Part, maybe most, of the increasing incidence of suicide in the Army is related to the strain of wartime deployments. But the report noted that 68 of the 120 suicides (57 percent) the Army suffered during the first half of 2010 were to soldiers who had zero or one deployment.
Over the past five years, the Army has suffered from increasing rates of discipline problems, crime, and drug use. The suicide prevention report noted that during this time, enlistment waivers increased and soldiers who previously would have been dismissed during initial training for unsuitability were instead retained, presumably due to the requirement to increase the Army's head count. Indeed, the Army calculated that one-third of the soldiers recruited to meet the Army's higher end-strength would have been dismissed from the service under the previous quality standards. It seems highly likely that the Army's retention of soldiers it would previously have found unsuitable for service is related to the increased suicide rate, along with other behavior problems.
Thus, in spite of sharply increased (and in my view, well-deserved) compensation, the Army has reached an upper boundary on its size -- unless Army leaders and the country are willing to accept rapidly declining quality and rapidly increasing trouble at the margin. The increasing U.S. population is not offsetting the declining propensity to volunteer for military service or the shrinking percentage of the youth cohort medically, mentally, or socially qualified to serve.

They can barely meet existing demand, not new demand
Johnson, 10 – eHow Contributer (Walter, “Recruitment Levels in Army”, 8/24, http://www.ehow.com/list_6901704_recruitment-levels-army.html)
American Army recruitment continues to struggle. Lower levels of recruitment exist both quantitatively, in that numbers are down as quotas are reduced, and qualitatively, as the quality of the average recruit has fallen. The latter is perhaps more troubling, because it affects existing Army personnel.
Quotas
• In October 2007, the Army began its recruiting year having met only 9 percent of its annual quota---down from 15 percent in October 2006. That 9 percent was the lowest number of people signing up for basic training since 1973, when the Army became an all-volunteer force. While Army recruiters do expect to reach their yearly goal of 80,000 recruits, this is often done by offering financial rewards for enlisting. Recruitment numbers remain low as of 2010, though there is usually a spike in military enlistment during times of economic crisis.

We totally need PMCs
Kaplan, 7 – Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (Robert, The Atlantic, “Outsourcing Conflict”, September, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/09/outsourcing-conflict/6368/)
Using exclusively active-duty sergeant-majors and master sergeants of the quality and numbers that this Army colonel required would have drained the Army of some of its best NCOs. The most-seasoned people can’t be produced overnight. Meanwhile, there is a ready-made retirement pool from which to draw, courtesy of the private sector. In the case of this colonel, the contractors were to be under the operational control of active-duty personnel; they would be allowed to fight only in their own self-defense.
The quasi-privatization of war has a long history and is consistent with America’s efficient capitalistic economy. The idea of a large American military presence anywhere without contractors is now unthinkable. Without firms like KBR, the support tail in Iraq would be infinitely longer than it is, with tens of thousands of more troops required to achieve the same result. Buildings need to be maintained; chow halls have to be run; showers and restrooms need to be cleaned. Mundane activities like these account for the bulk of what private contractors do. Of course, that raises the question of bidding fairness: Precisely because only a few such firms, including KBR, can handle massive logistical operations in sync with American military guidelines, taxpayers need to be protected from what are, in the absence of real competition, essentially no-bid contracts.

Externally turns heg
Gray 4 (Colin Gray, Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, University of Reading, 2004, The Sheriff: America’s Defense of the New World Order)
Seventh, the American sheriff cannot police world order if domestic opinion is not permissive. The longevity of U.S. guardianship depends vitally upon the skill, determination, and luck with which the country protects and burnishes its reputation for taking strategically effective action. But it also depends upon the willingness of American society to accept the costs that comprise the multi-faceted price of this particular form of glory. The American public is probably nowhere near as casualty-shy as popular mythology insists, though the same cannot be said with equal confidence of the professional American military. Such, at least, are the conclusions of the major recent study on this much debated subject." It is the opinion of this author that popular American attitudes toward casualties stem fairly directly from the sense of involvement, or lack of the same, in the matters at issue. If valid, this judgment is good news for the feasibility of U.S. performance in the sheriff's role, but a dire systemic problem may still remain. Specifically, as principal global guardian, the United States risks being thwarted on the domestic front by the central and inalienable weakness that mars attempts to practice the theory of collective security. Bacevich and others advance powerful arguments connecting American strategic behavior to the promotion of what they see, not wholly implausibly, as an informal American empire. But many, if not most, American voters will be hard to convince that U.S. military action is warranted save in those mercifully rare instances when it is directed to thwart some clear and present danger. A doctrine of military preemption, typically meaning prevention, no matter how strategically prudent, will be as difficult to justify domestically as abroad. There is an obvious way to diminish the amount, intensity, and duration of domestic political opposition to military operations conducted for purposes that do not resonate loudly on Main Street. That solution is to adopt a style of warfare that imposes few costs on American society, especially in the most human of dimensions – casualties. But since war is a duel, the United States' ability to perform all but painlessly as sheriff can never lie totally within its own control. Nonetheless, the potential problem of a reluctant domestic public should be eased if care is taken in selecting policing duties and if the troops who must execute the strategy are tactically competent. All of this would be more reassuring were we not respectful students of Clausewitz's teaching that "War is the realm of chance," an aphorism that we have had occasion to quote before. Eighth and finally, the point made immediately above concerning the necessity for, and possible fragility of, domestic support requires us to state that the American sheriff will be able to sustain the role only if it is willing and able to bear the pain of casualties. We must anticipate that pain to include occasionally suffering casualties on a relatively heavy scale. Much earlier in this chapter, we outlined the menace posed by WMD to American performance on behalf of the world order. It is virtually axiomatic that the sheriff’s role is feasible only against the backdrop of a serious commitment to provide for homeland security. That security needs to be measured against both threats stemming from traditional geopolitical sources, though probably manifested in somewhat asymmetric form, and the menace posed by highly irregular enemies who do not operate consistently from a fixed address. A geographically forward national security policy, which lends itself to explanation either as a global guardianship for world order or as a prudently expansive approach to self-defense, should arrest most growing menaces before they mature. However, no U.S. policy can be 100 percent successful in nipping burgeoning dangers in the bud. Bear in mind that there is no time limit on U.S. performance as sheriff for the world order. The country seeks to remain Number One, and to be ready to act against the agents of disorder, for as long as should prove practicable. Offensive and defensive counterforce options will certainly help reduce the risks to American forces abroad and to the American homeland. However, they will not eliminate those risks. Moreover, in the future those risks must include a strong likelihood of enemy action with WMD. There is no all-purpose “silver bullet” panacea to remove this peril. Our final point is that the United States needs to think in a much more sophisticated and differentiated way than it has in the past about what might be achieved by dissuasion, deterrence, coercion, and—as an essential addition—positive inducement or bribery. Ultimately, though, there is no evading the fact that Robert Kagan points out so effectively in one of the epigraphs to his book: “outlaws shoot sheriffs, not saloon keepers.” If the United States cannot bear the pain that forceful police work for world order will surely bring, then it had better effect a prompt change in its international role, policy, and strategy. Whether, or to what degree, defense policy and strategy might control the risks that attend global policing is the subject to which this analysis now turns.

High body-count causes serial policy failure and culminates in global military withdrawal
Daren Bowyer, Ph.D. Candidate, Canfield University, 2008 “Just War Doctrine,” https://dspace.lib.cranfield.ac.uk/bitstream/1826/3011/1/Bowyer_Thesis_final.pdf
4.2.1.4 The Impact of Casualty/Risk/Cost Aversion: Premature Withdrawal The remaining issue to be considered in relation to casualty/risk and/or cost aversion is that of premature withdrawal. In such cases, experience suggests it is indeed casualty aversion that is the primary factor; governments commit to interventions understanding that they will be financially costly and there are no obvious examples of withdrawal based primarily on increasing costs. However, there are clear examples of an unanticipated body-count driving a change in policy. The longer-term impact of the so- called ‘Black Hawk Down’ incident in Mogadishu in 1993 has been referred to above (See p258). It is also a very stark example of the moral consequences of casualty/risk aversion undermining political will to the extent that an intervention is terminated with its mission incomplete. The incident had its genesis in the June 1993 attack on Pakistani peacekeepers serving with UNOSOM II in which 26 were killed and a further 56 wounded. Supporters of the warlord ‘General’ Aideed were blamed and UNSCR 837 was passed authorising: all necessary measures against all those responsible for the armed attacks…... including against those responsible for publicly inciting such attacks, to establish the effective authority of UNOSOM II throughout Somalia, including to secure the investigation of their actions and their arrest and detention for prosecution, trial and punishment. 69 In the operations that followed four American servicemen were killed and six injured, leading to calls in Washington for the force to be withdrawn. However, the US 269 Administration reluctantly acceded instead to calls from the American commander of UNOSOM for an increase in force levels, including deployment of a Delta Force special operations unit. During a combined Delta Force/US Rangers operatio n intended to capture Aideed, two Black Hawk helicopters were shot down by Somalis using surface- to-air missiles. The ensuing rescue mission of the downed airmen left dead eighteen US soldiers, a Malaysian and a Moroccan (and as noted above a much higher but undetermined number of Somalis both innocent and not). The result in Washington was a hardening of attitude of those in Congress already opposed to the intervention and pressuring the Administration to withdraw. A bill sponsored by Senator Robert Byrd, calling for a withdrawal of US troops by the following January, was only narrowly defeated and the pressure was sufficient to lead President Clinton to announce a full withdrawal by March. Furthermore, the incident further hardened congressional attitudes against the UN and rendered vain any hope of the US meeting its arrears to the Peacekeeping fund. The following year a similar situation was to face Belgium with regard to its peacekeepers in Rwanda. In April a tense peace dissolved into fierce fighting. Hutu extremists turned first upon moderate Hutus including Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana who was murdered along with ten Belgian soldiers from UNAMIR who attempted to protect her. The Belgians were tortured before death and their bodies subsequently mutilated, adding to the sense of outrage in Belgium. 70 Notwithstanding the impassioned pleas from UN Secretary General Boutros-Ghali, the Belgian government decided instantly on a complete withdrawal of their troops: Belgium was inflicted with “the American Syndrome”: pull out at the first encounter with serious trouble. I argued against a Belgian pull out, but if they were determined to leave, I asked that they at least leave their heavy weapons behind so that they could be used by the remaining UN troops, which otherwise would be in a very weakened position. …But the Belgian troops took all their arms with them as they went…. 71 The Belgian withdrawal, much as the Secretary General had feared and warned, led, effectively, to the collapse of the mission: Caution ruled. With the important exception of Ghana, governments ordered their troops to protect themselves first of all, even if that meant standing by and 270 watching as lightly armed drunken thugs hacked women and children to death …. ….within a week of the genocide, 1,500 well-trained French, Italian and Belgian troops, with several hundred US Marines standing by in Burundi, flew into Kigali to evacuate expatriates and a few Rwandans, then left again at once. 72 Neither the United States nor any other power with the capability to intervene effectively in Rwanda, was prepared to do so. The lack of political will to shoulder the challenges, costs and risks associated with intervention in Rwanda, are well described – together with the disastrous consequences of such lack of will – by the UN mission’s commander, Lt Gen Romeo Dallaire in his harrowing book, Shake Hands with the Devil; the Failure of Humanity in Rwanda. This, for example from the introduction: What I have come to realize as the root of it all, however, is the fundamental indifference of the world community to the plight of seven to eight million black Africans in a tiny community that had no strategic or resource value to any world power. An overpopulated little country that turned in on itself and destroyed its own people, as the world watched and yet could not manage to find the political will to intervene. 73 At the time of writing (mid- 2007) two things are becoming clear: that when it comes to a war where national interests are seen to be at stake (rightly or wrongly) the United States having once stood accused of casualty aversion, has considerable tolerance to losses; and that that tolerance is now running out. With both houses of Congress in Democrat control, considerable pressure is being placed on the Administration to begin a withdrawal from Iraq. Should that lead to an exit-strategy that leaves Iraq in worse circumstances than those prevailing ante-bellum, then the jus ad bellum, already widely criticised, will look emptier still. For as the position of then Secretary of State Colin Powell was paraphrased by an aide (quoting an oft used notice in US shops) ‘if you break it; you own it!’ 74 Whilst the desire to minimise the losses (and costs) to ones own side in conflict i s entirely natural and indeed desirable, there must remain a concern that this can lead to disproportionate and even indiscriminate losses on the other side or to the civilian population and that such breach of jus in bello tenets can, especially in humanitarian interventions, also undermine the stated jus ad bellum. In general war between two or 271 more nations the term ‘enemy non-combatants’ may have acceptable currency; in humanitarian interventions and, as will be argued later, in modern ‘asymmetric’ wars it has no real value; indeed it is morally dangerous. Our proper desire to minimise our own casualties ought not to be allowed to transfer the risk to the civilian population or even to engage the enemy in a way that is either disproportionate or indiscriminate.


==Narcotics neg== 


===1nc DEA shift counterplan=== 

Counterplan: 

The United States federal government should end current Drug Enforcement Administration counternarcotics activity in Afghanistan. The United States federal government should use its DEA personnel engaged in counternarcotics activity for training Afghan police in anti-corruption, public safety, and community interactions, with an additional emphasis on investigating mid-level police personnel that receive payments from drug traffickers and using DEA counternarcotics intelligence. The United States federal government should increase the number of DEA personnel not deployed in Afghanistan by a number equivalent to DEA personnel that are currently deployed in Afghanistan.

First, it competes—the plan ends DEA police presence from Afghanistan—that means they leave the country. 
Coe, 97 - Professor, Criminal Law Department, The Judge Advocate General's School, United States Army (Gregory, 1997 Army Law. 25, “Restating Some Old Rules and Limiting Some Landmarks: Recent Developments in Pre-Trial and Trial Procedure”, April, lexis)

Reviewing the Manual for Courts-Martial, the Army court held that the speakerphone procedure violated the law because of the logical definition of presence, the policy reasons why physical presence is required to conduct a court-martial, and the military judge's justification for conducting the arraignment by speakerphone. n171 The court determined that the Manual for Courts-Martial nowhere defines "presence" in the applicable provisions. n172 Looking to the plain meaning of the word in Webster's Dictionary, the Army court held that presence meant "the fact or condition of being present." n173 According to Webster's, "present" means "being in one place and not elsewhere, being within reach, sight, or call or within contemplated limits, being in view or at hand, being before, beside, with, or in the same place as someone or something." n174

Second, the net-benefit

There’s a civilian police training shortage in Afghanistan – more civilian trainers are vital to address training shortfalls and freeing up military resources
Neuman, 10 – former US ambassador to Afghanistan (Ronald E., “Fix the Police”, Foreign Policy, 6/23/10, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/fix_the_police?page=0,1) 

It doesn't grab headlines the way a public spat between a commanding general and the White House, or reports that contractors are paying off Taliban insurgents, can. 
But the unglamorous business of reforming Afghanistan's police may be among the most important challenges for the U.S. mission right now. There are, of course, other urgent tasks that will confront Gen. David Petraeus when he takes charge in Kabul. Foreign forces must push back the insurgency to buy time. The Afghan Army must grow in size and proficiency, and the Afghan government must improve. But it is the police who must secure the population. Without effective police, the U.S. Marines in Marjah will continue to be stuck in a small area, unable to deploy elsewhere in force without risking the security they have fought for. New plans for securing Kandahar likewise must include effective contributions from Afghan police. Unfortunately, the police are the weakest link in the security forces. 
The U.S. approach to the Afghan police has been fraught with problems. Following years of drift in which the effort was left to others, serious police funding began only in 2007, after Lt. Gen. Karl Eikenberry, then the top U.S. commander in Kabul, and I recommended a substantial increase. At the time, as U.S ambassador to Afghanistan, I warned in telegrams and in conversations with senior officials -- including Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and President George W. Bush himself -- that the additional money would be wasted without sufficient trainers. But my concerns went unanswered. The State Department fought with the military over whether the force was being too militarized for proper policing. The reality was that it remained ineffective in either realm. 
On my recent visit to Afghanistan, I saw decisions moving in the right direction, but with critical dangers ahead. The United States and its Afghan partner are focused on first building a paramilitary force because, as then Interior Minister Hanif Atmar told me, Afghans and internationals alike view securing Afghan civilians as an urgent priority. That requires advisors with military skills, such as patrolling, defense against ambushes and roadside bombs, and so on. Yet a paramilitary emphasis should not exclude policing skills, such as criminal investigation, forensic science, and protecting evidence, that are critical to the longer-term formation of a functioning justice system. 
That means that civilian mentors and trainers, not just military advisors, are needed. There are real differences between how military and police organizations build ties with the communities they secure. Senior police officers need to lean policing skills. The NATO training command in Kabul, a joint U.S. and NATO operation, knows this and wants more civilians as well as military trainers. But neither the right balance nor the numbers of military and civilian advisors are present. Police trainers of all kinds are at only 59 percent of required numbers. Despite impressive work by Canadian and Italian gendarmerie trainers, the NATO effort is not meeting its goals. The United States must not repeat the mistake of past years by leaving a critical hole while waiting for others.

DEA personnel have direct, transferrable skills for anti-corruption and public safety training – this is vital to Afghan governmental legitimacy
Feinstein et al, 10 – US Senator (Diane, “U.S. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY in AFGHANISTAN,” a REPORT to the UNITED STATES SENATE CAUCUS on INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL, July, Http:Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2010_Rpt/Counternarc.Pdf

9. CORRUPTION
Throughout the world, public corruption and narcotics trafficking go hand in hand and Afghanistan is no exception. According to a study by the U.N. Office of Drugs and Crime, corruption and bribery are a part of everyday life in Afghanistan. In January of 2010, the U.N. Office of Drugs and Crime Executive Director Antonio Maria Costa stated:
The problem is enormous by any standards. In the aggregate, Afghans paid out $2.5 billion in bribes over the past 12 months – that‘s equivalent to almost one quarter (23%) of Afghanistan‘s GDP. By coincidence, this is similar to the revenue accrued by the opium trade in 2009 (which we have estimated separately at $2.8 billion). In other words and this is shocking, drugs and bribes are the two largest income generators in Afghanistan: together they amount to about half the country‘s (licit) GDP.87
Most experts we spoke with agree that corruption at all levels of government enable narcotics trafficking.88 Producing ton quantities of heroin is labor intensive and the final product needs to be transported to market with assurances of security from either the Taliban or corrupt government officials. Drug traffickers could take their chances moving their product and hope that they do not get caught, arrested or killed, but the more prudent way to conduct their illicit business is to pay for the peace of mind up front. In order to operate in Taliban-controlled space, drug traffickers must pay the Taliban. In order to operate in Afghan-government controlled space, the drug traffickers must pay off corrupt government officials. Historically, corrupt public officials have rendered many aspects of the counternarcotics program useless, including using the eradication program as a means of extortion and by robbing alternative livelihood programs of resources intended for the Afghan farmer.89
In May of 2010, David Mansfield, a fellow at the Carr Center, Harvard Kennedy School, who has conducted research on the role of opium in Afghanistan for the last 14 growing seasons wrote:
This image of the Talib as drugs trafficker and the drugs trafficker as Talib is not the one that is most recognisable to the bulk of the Afghan population. In fact, there is a growing belief in the south that those working for the government are more actively involved in the trade in narcotics than the Taliban. Even in other parts of the country, accusations are made against senior government officials and are widely believed by rural Afghans. Indeed, farmers in some of the most remote rural areas often claim that it is only those in positions of power in their area that can trade illegal drugs.
There is a growing recognition of the role that both insurgents and corrupt government officials play in the drugs trade. There are even concerns over the level of cooperation that might exist between state and anti-state actors in provinces like Helmand, not only in facilitating the movement of drugs from one part of the country to another but also in engineering a level of instability in a given area so that the production and trade of opium can thrive.90
The corrupt public officials‘ involvement in the Afghan drug trade undermines the legitimacy of the state and drives segments of the population to side with insurgents. Therefore, the counternarcotics strategy in Afghanistan must include a high-priority anti-corruption campaign. Public corruption investigations are sensitive and time-consuming. The good news is that the majority of the investigative techniques that are being provided to the Afghans for the counternarcotics mission can also be applied to corruption investigations. Additionally, drug investigations themselves uncover corruption; therefore the aggressive pursuit of drug traffickers in Afghanistan will likely lead to evidence against corrupt public officials.

Using counternarcotics intel to eliminate links between drug traffickers and the government sends a vital signal that the government is cracking down on corruption. This ev also proves the counterplan solves the entire case
Felbab-Brown, 10 – senior fellow at Brookings (Vanda, “The Design and Resourcing of Supply-Side Counternarcotics Policies,” Congressional Testimony, 4/14, http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0414_drug_funding_felbabbrown.aspx) DTO = Drug Trafficking Organization

However, the design of interdiction measures and alternative livelihoods efforts and the quality of their implementation will be critical for success. It is, for example, highly unlikely that interdiction measures can significantly reduce the Taliban’s income and greatly limit its operational capacity. Interdiction measures have rarely succeeded in such an undertaking, and the Taliban likely derives half of its income from fundraising and taxing all other legal and illegal economic activity in the areas where its presence is strong, such as trucking, illegal logging, and development projects. Between 2002-2004, the Taliban was able to rebuild itself largely without access to proceeds from poppy cultivation in Afghanistan.
Moreover, some proposed interdiction programs, such as trying to prevent the access by itinerant harvesters to poppy cultivation areas, including in Marja, are extraordinarily resource-intensive and could divert military resources away from the more urgent tasks of preventing Taliban repenetration of cleared areas. In addition, in successfully disrupting local supply chains, such efforts would in their outcome mimic eradication, worsening the economic conditions of large segments of the rural population and once again pushing such populations into the hands of the Taliban. In sensitive priority areas, like the Marja district and Kandahar province, such policies would be counterproductive for the counterinsurgency effort.
Finally, interdiction and law enforcement efforts in Afghanistan also need to target government-linked traffickers to send a message that the era of impunity is over. Such efforts need to be accompanied by expanding the quality of and access to justice and dispute resolution mechanisms for the population and improving the capacity and quality of police, specialized counternarcotics units, the judicial system, and corrections facilities.

This turns the case - the perception of anti-corruption training is vital to the legitimacy of the entire government and the success of COIN – it’s the only way to demobilize the Taliban
RUSI, 9 - A joint report of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies (London)
and the Foreign Policy Research Institute (Philadelphia) (“Reforming the Afghan National Police,”
http://www.fpri.org/research/nationalsecurity/afghanpolice/ReformingAfghanNationalPolice.pdf)

More than simply an ineffective appendage to the COIN effort, they have actually become harmful. Corrupt, abusive and predatory, public confidence in the ANP has eroded. But as a former general and professor at the Police Academy emphasised, ‘the police are the reflection mirror of the government, in which the general public judges the entire system.’ Evidence emerges from the fact that the Taliban regularly target the police ‘not just with violence but also with morale-sapping vitriol.’60 In many districts the ANP are the only government officials who interact with the public meaning that ‘the perceived legitimacy of Government depends almost entirely on them.’61 There is thus significant worry that the failings of the ANP mean that Afghans view the central government as corrupt, ineffective and of equal threat to their security as the anti-government forces which are coming to dominate large swathes of the country. Legitimacy is the terrain over which insurgencies are fought. A core element of legitimacy according to the US COIN doctrine is ‘the ability to provide security for the populace (including protection from internal and external threats’.62 The counterinsurgency effort and the very stability of the fledgling post Taliban system is at threat.
So long as the Taliban are perceived as more law abiding than the governments’ own trained law enforcers, the Afghan state will lack both legitimacy and stability. Confidence in the central government’s ability to provide fair and effective public goods of security and justice are crucial in winning Afghan hearts and minds and convincing the population that their future lies with the current system. Indeed, as Francis B.Ward, Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Inspections testified to the House of Representatives, in 2008, ‘The absence of a modern, functional government [of which the police are a crucial element], sustains the Taliban’.63 Let it not be forgotten that the Taliban rode to power on the crest of rising fatigue and disgust at the lack of the rule of law; Mullah Omar famously began his public career by hanging a pair of local warlords and rapists from the barrel of a tank gun in Kandahar.64 Frank Ledwidge, in a recent article for RUSI argued that ‘ideas of justice and security are at the heart of the attraction the organization has for Afghans.’

Credible police training creates political support for a stable drawdown – otherwise US military forces will be indefinitely committed
Chatterjee, 10 * a senior editor at CorpWatch. He has traveled extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia and is the author of two books about the war on terror, Iraq, Inc. and Halliburton's Army (Pratap, “How Afghan Police Training Became a Train Wreck”, Mother Jones, 3/22/10, http://motherjones.com/politics/2010/03/how-afghan-police-training-became-train-wreck?page=2)

The Pentagon faces a tough choice: Should it award a new contract to Xe (formerly Blackwater), a company made infamous when its employees killed 17 Iraqis in Baghdad in 2007, or to DynCorp, a company made infamous in Bosnia in 1999 when some of its employees were caught trafficking young girls for sex?
This billion-dollar contract will be the linchpin of a training program for the Afghan National Police, who are theoretically to be drilled in counterinsurgency tactics that will help defeat the Taliban and bring security to impoverished, war-torn Afghanistan. The program is also considered a crucial component of the Obama administration's plan for turning the war around. Ironically, Xe was poised to win the contract until a successful appeal by DynCorp last week threw the field wide open.
Some people in the US government (and many outside it) believe that this task should not be assigned to private contractors in the first place. Meanwhile, many police experts are certain that it hardly matters which company gets the contract. Like so many before it, the latest training program is doomed from the outset, they believe, because its focus will be on defeating the Taliban rather than fostering community-oriented policing.
The Obama administration is in a fix: it believes that, if it can't put at least 100,000 trained police officers on Afghan streets and into the scattered hamlets that make up the bulk of the country, it won't be able to begin a drawdown of US troop levels in Afghanistan by the middle of next year.

This risks overstretch, military collapse and great power wars
Pyne, 9 - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

Since we invaded Iraq six and a half years ago and Afghanistan eight years ago, we have lost nearly 7,000 American soldiers and contractors killed in action with tens of thousands more severely wounded at the cost of a trillion dollars thus far. October has been the single deadliest month for US forces since the war began. It shouldn’t take a military strategist to realize that after fighting a war for over eight years without any real idea how to win, it might be time to consider a drastic change in strategy. This should include a sober assessment of the cost/benefit analysis of staying and fighting at a rising cost in American blood and treasure versus conserving our military strength and bringing our troops home to defend America from terrorist attack.
The Soviets fought an eight year long war in Afghanistan before finally realizing that victory was not a possibility in a conflict which some say began a chain of events that resulted in the collapse of the Evil Empire thanks to Reagan’s support of proxy forces against the Soviet invaders. If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops fighting no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps even collapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies. Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in the desert sands of Iraq and Afghanistan.
If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops bogged down fighting two no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps even collapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent, might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies.
Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in the desert sands of Iraq and Afghanistan. This high tempo of deployments has resulted in much of our military equipment to break down while procurement and readiness are at their lowest levels over the past quarter century. Our national security always suffers when we get bogged down in wars where our troops are asked to bleed and die, but are not permitted by our political leaders to win. Our brave soldiers should never be allowed to sacrifice in this way without the hope of victory! The best way to support our troops is to bring them home to their families and make a commitment that we will not let a week go by without thanking a soldier for their willingness to risk life and limb to defend us all.
What is it going to take to get our political leaders to realize that the costs of staying and fighting the long war in Iraq and Afghanistan greatly outweigh the costs of redeploying out of theater? The same voices we hear calling for us to send another 40,000 to 100,000 troops to Afghanistan are the ones that would have called for us to keep surging and fighting in Vietnam in perpetuity at the cost of hundreds of thousands of our soldiers lives. It didn’t make sense to do that then and it doesn’t make sense to do so now. Ronald Reagan won the Cold War against the Evil Soviet Empire in part by employing proxies to fight and win our battles for us. We need to learn from Reagan and re-employ a strategy of arming and supporting proxies both states and insurgent movements to fight our wars so our troops don’t have to.
America needs to conserve its military strength for a time when we they may be called upon to fight great power enemies, not waste it bogged down fighting Vietnams in the desert as we have been doing the past several years. Until we do, we will remain in a state of imperial overstretch and strategic paralysis with no reserve forces to fight new hypothetical wars of necessity and with a continuing window of vulnerability which our enemies will undoubtedly continue to exploit. North Korea has already been exploiting our window of vulnerability with their ongoing nuclear missile buildup as has the Islamic Republic of Iran is doing with its near imminent development of weaponized nukes. Even Russia has done so with their invasion of US-ally Georgia this past year.



===2nc Perm do the CP=== 


Reduce means permanent
Reynolds, 59 – Judge (In the Matter of Doris A. Montesani, Petitioner, v. Arthur Levitt, as Comptroller of the State of New York, et al., Respondents [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL] Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department 9 A.D.2d 51; 189 N.Y.S.2d 695; 1959 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7391 August 13, 1959)

Section 83's counterpart with regard to nondisability pensioners, section 84, prescribes a reduction only if the pensioner should again take a public job. The disability pensioner is penalized if he takes any type of employment. The reason for the difference, of course, is that in one case the only reason pension benefits are available is because the pensioner is considered incapable of gainful employment, while in the other he has fully completed his "tour" and is considered as having earned his reward with almost no strings attached. It would be manifestly unfair to the ordinary retiree to accord the disability retiree the benefits of the System to which they both belong when the latter is otherwise capable of earning a living and had not fulfilled his service obligation. If it were to be held that withholdings under section 83 were payable whenever the pensioner died or stopped his other employment the whole purpose of the provision would be defeated, i.e., the System might just as well have continued payments during the other employment since it must later pay it anyway. [***13] The section says "reduced", does not say that monthly payments shall be temporarily suspended; it says that the pension itself shall be reduced. The plain dictionary meaning of the word is to diminish, lower or degrade. The word "reduce" seems adequately to indicate permanency.

‘End’ means to bring to a final point – no other action is allowed
Compact Oxford English Dictionary, 10 (http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/end?view=uk)

end
Verb
come or bring to a final point ; finish:

It’s obviously severance. The plan ends DEA police presence. The counterplan maintains DEA police presence for conducting investigations against traffickers and maintains the DEA training presence. These exist now so the counterplan is a PIC
Feinstein et al, 10 – US Senator (Diane, “U.S. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY in AFGHANISTAN,” a REPORT to the UNITED STATES SENATE CAUCUS on INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL, July, Http:Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2010_Rpt/Counternarc.Pdf

Afghan Counternarcotics Capabilities
As part of the overall strategy in Afghanistan, an emphasis has been placed on U.S. training and mentoring of Afghan personnel to be able to conduct counternarcotics operations on their own. This effort has focused on the Counter Narcotics Police (CNP) in Afghanistan who have the national mandate to combat narcotics trafficking. The CNP is supported by the U.S. State Department‘s International Narcotics and Law Enforcement (INL) program and DEA to further its reach to seize drugs, arrest traffickers, and bring them to justice. The program's goal is to establish a self-sustaining law enforcement agency. The Afghan counternarcotics police organization consists of the following specialized vetted units:
Sensitive Investigative Unit (SIU) - The Sensitive Investigations Unit is a DEA/INL sponsored, vetted, and highly trained group of 45 Afghan investigators whose mission is to gather and exploit evidence, work undercover and obtain confidential informants, and build cases against High Value Drug Traffickers. The officers were trained in Quantico, Virginia.
Technical Investigative Unit (TIU) - The Technical Investigations Unit is a DEA/INL sponsored, vetted and highly trained group of investigators who utilize legally authorized Afghan wire intercepts to gather evidence against High Value Drug Trafficking. This unit consists of 11 Afghan officers with 100 interpreters to log, monitor and conduct call intercepts. The officers were trained at Quantico.
National Interdiction Unit (NIU) -The National Interdiction Unit is a DEA/INL sponsored and mentored, tactically trained Afghan law enforcement unit. They are trained to execute search warrants, conduct raids, interdict and seize narcotics and precursor chemicals, secure evidence and make arrests.
DEA vetted unit program managers told staff that due to the change of policy last year U.S.-led crop eradication efforts were scaled down. The State Department had supported a large Poppy Eradication Force consisting of about 643 Afghan Police Officers.70 The country team in Afghanistan has developed a plan to transition 250 of these officers into the DEA Mentored National Interdiction Unit (NIU). Training has begun with four basic classes scheduled. It is anticipated that after this transition the NIU Force will increase from 246 members to approximately 569 by the end of FY2010.71 DEA program managers say that this increase will enhance the capability to deploy NIU officers in larger numbers regionally as they are in very high demand by Coalition Forces because of their skill level.72
It is noteworthy that Iran shares a long border with Afghanistan, has the worst addiction problem of any country, and is a major supply route out of Afghanistan.


===2nc Trainer shortage now=== 


Trainer shortages are huge and the military can’t fill the role
Cordesman, 10/1/10 - chair in strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Anthony, “Slouching Towards 2011,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/01/slouching_toward_2011)

The NATO Training Mission in Afghanistan (NTM-A) and the U.S. Combined Security Transition Command-Afghanistan (CSTC-A) -- which are now integrated for all effective purposes -- remain seriously understaffed, and large numbers of the "trainers" now in place are U.S. troops with no specialized background or experience assigned to fill slots.
As recent reports from the training mission indicate, this situation will get worse before it gets better for both the ANA and Afghan National Police. Both forces face a massive shortage of specialized trainers. These trainers are vital to creating a force with the new skill levels needed to allow the army and police to operate on their own. Only nine skilled trainers (1.1 percent of the NATO/ISAF requirement) are now in place to meet a near-term requirement for 819, and 442 (54 percent) of the total have not even been pledged. It seems very doubtful that the army can become a force that is fully capable of independent operations and begin serving as the base for transition to Afghan-led operations by mid-2011. A time frame of 2012 to 2015 seems far more realistic.

The shortage of police trainers is causing the US to cut the time people spend in training – guarantees failure
Spolar, 10 – foreign correspondent for the Chicago Tribune (Christine, “To Speed Recruits, U.S. Cuts Afghan Police Training To Six Weeks”, Huffington Post, 3/15/10, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/03/15/to-speed-recruits-us-cuts_n_499189.html)

The U.S. government's plan to rapidly grow the ranks of Afghan police officers has run into a shortage of instructors and training camps, prompting U.S. and NATO officials to cut basic training for Afghan recruits from eight weeks to six.
The schedule change--which crams the same hours of training into fewer weeks--underscores the pressures that the Pentagon faces as it tries to transform the police into an effective counterinsurgency force with a higher level of military skills. Afghan police have long been seen as the weak link in that nation's security forces, suffering a disproportionate number of deadly attacks by the insurgents.
U.S. military officials in Kabul confirmed that the change took effect Saturday. They said the Afghan recruits, most of whom cannot read, write or count, would work longer days to make up for the compressed schedule.
The Afghan police training, contracted to DynCorp International, is now half as long as the 12-week program that DynCorp used to train Iraqi police recruits. DynCorp spokesman Douglas Ebner said the company was told of the change in training regimen in the past week.
The reduction goes against the advice given by some military advisors and contractors to an independent oversight panel late last year. But the quicker turnaround is needed to keep pace with an ambitious schedule of growing the police force to help fight the Taliban, officials familiar with the program told the Investigative Fund.

The ANP has strong links to drug trafficking – cracking down on its connection is vital to a strong police force
Chatterjee, 10 * a senior editor at CorpWatch. He has traveled extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia and is the author of two books about the war on terror, Iraq, Inc. and Halliburton's Army (Pratap, “How Afghan Police Training Became a Train Wreck”, Mother Jones, 3/22/10, http://motherjones.com/politics/2010/03/how-afghan-police-training-became-train-wreck?page=2)

State Department planners seem to have taken an inordinately long time to wake up to the basic problems that Afghanistan faced in creating a viable police force. With salaries pegged at $16 a month for a beat cop in 2002, the police were particularly vulnerable to corruption in the form of extorted bribes, and to the Taliban who offered much higher wages to their fighters. Making the situation worse, the force was remarkably top-heavy. More than 20,000 officers and non-commissioned officers oversaw only 36,000 patrolmen. It was regularly alleged that they made their beat cops shake down citizens for bribes. In fact, a 2007 study by the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan that reviewed the records of 2,464 police officers found claims of drug trafficking, corruption, or assaults against more than one-third of them.
"There are some parts of Afghanistan where the last thing people want to see is the police showing up," Brigadier General Gary O'Brien, former deputy commander of the Combined Security Transition Command-Afghanistan, told the Canadian Press news agency in March 2007. "They are part of the problem. They do not provide security for the people—they are the robbers of the people."


===1nc Taliban advantage=== 

The Taliban adapts – it’s impossible to weaken their funding base
Whitlock, 9 (Craigh, Washington Post, “Diverse Sources Fund Insurgency In Afghanistan,” 9/27, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/09/26/AR2009092602707.html)

KABUL -- The Taliban-led insurgency has built a fundraising juggernaut that generates cash from such an array of criminal rackets, donations, taxes, shakedowns and other schemes that U.S. and Afghan officials say it may be impossible to choke off the movement's money supply.
Obama administration officials say the single largest source of cash for the Taliban, once thought to rely mostly on Afghanistan's booming opium trade to finance its operations, is not drugs but foreign donations. The CIA recently estimated that Taliban leaders and their allies received $106 million in the past year from donors outside Afghanistan.
For the past decade, the U.S. Treasury and the U.N. Security Council have maintained financial blacklists of suspected donors to the Taliban and al-Qaeda. The U.N. list, originally designed to pressure the Taliban to hand over al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, requires all U.N. members to freeze the assets of designated Taliban officials and their supporters.
The U.N. and Treasury blacklists were greatly expanded after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Since 2005, however, only a handful of alleged Taliban benefactors have been added to the lists.
Some American and Afghan officials said the U.S. government, which had been a leading nominator of names for the U.N. blacklist, paid less attention to Taliban donors after the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Until recently, they said, Washington had also been preoccupied with preparing sanctions against individuals and companies doing business with the Iranian government.
Richard Barrett, the coordinator of the United Nations' Taliban and al-Qaeda Monitoring Team, said Taliban sympathizers are much more skillful today at masking their donations and ensuring that the money cannot be traced back to them.
"It's been very, very difficult to identify these people," Barrett said. "You can track the money flow and say this money came from the Gulf, but it's a lot more difficult to confirm the source."
In July, Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, said the Taliban was reaping the bulk of its revenue from donors abroad, especially from the Persian Gulf.
Other U.S. officials have noted that the Taliban received substantial financial help from Gulf countries during the 1990s, when Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- along with Pakistan -- were the only nations that gave diplomatic recognition to the Taliban government.
U.S. officials said there is no evidence today that the Saudi, UAE or other Gulf governments are giving official aid to the Taliban. They said they suspect that Pakistani military and intelligence operatives are continuing to fund the Afghan insurgency, although the Islamabad government denies this.
As the insurgency has grown in strength, the Taliban and its affiliates have embraced a strategy favored by multinational corporations: diversification. With money pouring in from so many sources, the Taliban has been able to expand the insurgency across the country with relative ease, U.S. and Afghan officials said.
In an Aug. 30 report assessing the overall state of the war, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, said the Taliban's range of financial resources made it difficult to weaken the movement.
"Eliminating insurgent access to narco-profits -- even if possible, and while disruptive -- would not destroy their ability to operate so long as other funding sources remained intact," McChrystal wrote.
U.S. officials said reliable estimates of the Taliban's overall cash flow are difficult to calculate because the insurgency is a decentralized movement comprising many factions and commanders. But annual revenue is thought to total hundreds of millions of dollars.

Empirically – the Taliban will stockpile excess opium to prevent a price decline
Rosenberg, 9 (Matthew, Wall Street Journal, “U.N. Reports a Decline in Afghanistan's Opium Trade,” 9/2, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB125186106142078433.html)

The decline in poppy growing is largely the result of years of oversupply catching up to farmers -- cultivation climbed this decade as earlier efforts to curb it failed -- and newly successful interdiction efforts that have begun to discourage production, the report said.
But obstacles remain as foreign troops and aid workers try to end opium's role as a pillar of Afghanistan's economy and a source of revenue for the Taliban, particularly because the industry is so entrenched.
"The bottom is starting to fall out of the Afghan opium market," the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime said in the report, which was released Wednesday. (See the full report.)
To support that conclusion, the report says that Afghanistan's opium cultivation this year has fallen 22% from 2008, the second straight annual decline.
A persistent global glut has discouraged production and forced down prices paid to farmers, though output continues to outstrip global demand. The U.N. drug office's executive director, Antonio Maria Costa, said in a statement that the stockpiling of excess opium was likely keeping prices from crashing.
A summary of the report provided to journalists ahead of the full report's release didn't detail methodology, and said the numbers for 2008 and 2009 weren't directly comparable because of slight population increases. The annual survey, which seeks to measure prices around harvest times in different parts of the country, is consistently cited as a measure of opium production in Afghanistan.
The report appeared to offer a rare bit of welcome news in Afghanistan for the U.S. and its allies, after a summer of setbacks. Insurgent violence continues to spread in Afghanistan and a hotly contested presidential election has been marred by allegations of vote-rigging.
The U.N. opium report raised several red flags that indicate the drug trade is likely to remain a central challenge for any new Afghan government and international security forces. The U.N. says Afghan officials remain complicit in the illegal trade, undermining public support for the government. Afghan officials routinely deny such allegations.
Collusion between criminal gangs and insurgents is spawning "narco-cartels" like those seen in Colombia and Myanmar, the U.N. says.
And Afghanistan still grows far more opium than global demand, which is steady at about 5,000 tons a year. Some of that excess crop is probably being hoarded, the report said. "Stockpiles of illicit opium now probably exceed 10,000 tons -- enough to satisfy two years of world [heroin] addiction," Mr. Costa said.

Poppy disease means the aff can’t solve
Tiedemann, 10 (Katherine, “Daily brief: disease hits Afghan poppies,” 5/13,
http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/05/13/daily_brief_disease_hits_afghan_poppies

As much as one third of Afghanistan's lucrative poppy crops -- a source of funding for the Taliban insurgency, but also the livelihood of many Afghan farmers -- has been destroyed by a mysterious disease, probably an aphid but possibly also a fungus or virus (NYT, BBC, AFP). The drop in supply is likely to have at least two positive effects for the insurgents: one, it will probably fuel the Taliban's propaganda campaign claiming that international forces will destroy Afghan farmers' poppy crops; and two, prices of opium will rise at least 60 percent, according to U.N. figures.


===1nc Small producers advantage=== 

Brown concludes neg – her argument is about Bush-era eradication, not interdiction, which she supports
Felbab-Brown 10 - Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. (Vanda Felbab-Brown. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” The Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf) 

At least until the new counternarcotics policy that the Obama administration indicated it would undertake in summer 2009—defunding and deemphasizing eradication and focusing on interdiction and rural development— counternarcotics efforts in Afghanistan unfortunately had these undesirable effects.1 The new policy, if implemented well, promises to redress many of the deficiencies of previous efforts and synergistically enhance counterinsurgency and counterterrorism objectives.

Existing regional cooperation solves 
Johnson, 10 - Assistant Secretary, Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (David, Statement before the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Domestic Policy, 7/21, http://www.state.gov/p/inl/rls/rm/144982.htm)

Central Asia - Most of the opiates produced in Afghanistan pass through Iran and Pakistan en route to regional and international markets. However, Central Asia is an important route for opiates destined for the Russian market. To help stem the flow of Afghan opium and heroin through Central Asia and onward to Europe and Russia we work closely with drug control agencies and border services in the region to improve interdiction, law enforcement information sharing, and border controls.
For my bureau, the central focus is Tajikistan, which shares a porous 828 mile border with Afghanistan. Since 2005, we have reconstructed border posts at nine key locations and provided training and equipment that have made the Tajik Drug Control Agency one of the best in the region. To enhance regional cooperation, we provide substantial political and financial support for the Central Asian Regional Information Coordination Center (CARICC) located in Kazakhstan, which serves as a hub for the Central Asian nations, Russia, and Azerbaijan to exchange law enforcement information and facilitate international cooperation on drug investigations. In 2009, CARICC conducted three international “controlled delivery” operations involving Central Asian governments, Russia, and Ukraine that led to the dismantling of three transnational criminal organizations. Prior to the creation of CARICC, there was no such regional coordination mechanism at the operational level. In southern and central Europe, the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative’s Center for Combating Trans-border Crime (or SECI Center), which the Department of State helps to support, plays a similar coordinating role among 13 states. Both organizations represent important steps forward in regionalizing law enforcement efforts and strategies in order to match the transnational reach of criminal organizations.

The plan destroys regional cooperation by triggering Russian intervention – they’re on the brink now because they think the current US CN policy is too weak
Tynan, 10/15/10 - Bishkek-based reporter specializing in Central Asian affairs (Dierde, Russia: Moscow’s Discontent with Afghan Anti-Drug Fight Boiling Over,” http://www.isaintel.com/?p=596)

A September 30 statement issued by Russia’s permanent mission to NATO called on the Atlantic Alliance to redouble its anti-trafficking efforts. “The drug problem has to be settled once and for all, if we are to achieve stabilization in Afghanistan and the region,” the statement said.
Some Russian MPs are now actively contemplating the deployment of Russian units in Central Asian states to wage an anti-drug campaign. Speaking at a security conference held in Moscow in early October, Semyon Bagdasarov, a member of the State Duma’s International Affairs Committee, called on Russia to seize the initiative. The United States, he hinted strongly, can’t be trusted to defend Russian interests.
“We need to amend the law ‘On Defense’ and allow the use of troops to combat drug trafficking in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. … If we don’t do this, the Americans will do it,” Bagdasarov said. “It is unacceptable, given that drug trafficking is a threat to our national security, that representatives of a different state, not us, fight it.”
Abdugani Mamadazimov, the head of National Association of Political Scientists of Tajikistan, told EurasiaNet.org that Russia is motivated not only by intent to combat drug trafficking, but also by a desire to stem the spread of Islamic extremism. “The situation in Central Asia isn’t a direct threat to Russia but it has indirect influence. But if the security situation gets worse because of Islamic militants in the region, it will affect Russia. It will be seen as a second front – they already have a problematic area in the Caucasus,” he said.
An increased Russian troop presence in Tajikistan could create a fresh set of problems, Mamadazimov suggested. Russian border guards used to be responsible for patrolling Tajikistan’s porous border with Afghanistan, but they withdrew in 2005 at the behest of Tajik President Imomali Rahmon. The re-introduction of Russian forces along the frontier would be perceived as “neo-colonialism” by many Tajiks, Mamadaziev asserted.
Such a Russian deployment would probably not make much of a difference in the anti-drug fight, Mamadazimov added. “NATO is taking some measures to address [drugs trafficking and security] but their actions are not sufficient,” he explained. “Tajikistan needs not only Russia’s assistance but also [more] help from the European Union and the United States. But nobody is doing enough.”
Leonid Gusev, a professor of international relations at Moscow State University, said the rising rate of drug abuse in Russia created a major incentive for the Kremlin to act. But he cautioned against a unilateral approach. He said all the major regional organizations, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the CSTO and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization needed to coordinate and implement a single strategy.
“The OSCE will hold a summit in Astana, Kazakhstan, in December where [representatives of] all of these organizations will meet,” he said. “Perhaps that kind of coordination might be discussed as well. It would be at least a step towards addressing this problem.”

No chance of Pakistan collapse
Bandow 09- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924)

From Pakistan's perspective, limiting the war on almost any terms would be better than prosecuting it for years, even to "victory," whatever that would mean. In fact, the least likely outcome is a takeover by widely unpopular Pakistani militants. The Pakistan military is the nation's strongest institution; while the army might not be able to rule alone, it can prevent any other force from ruling.
Indeed, Bennett Ramberg made the important point: "Pakistan, Iran and the former Soviet republics to the north have demonstrated a brutal capacity to suppress political violence to ensure survival. This suggests that even were Afghanistan to become a terrorist haven, the neighborhood can adapt and resist." The results might not be pretty, but the region would not descend into chaos. In contrast, warned Bacevich: "To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake."

Iran isn’t a threat
Amuzegar, 06 - finance minister and economic ambassador in Iran's pre-1979 government. (Jahangir, Middle East Policy, “Nuclear Iran: perils and prospects”, 6/22, lexis)

Questioning the validity of objections to a nuclear-powered Iran, however, are a large number of experts who find the threats somewhat exaggerated, if not largely based on hysteria. First, the Islamic Republic's challenge to Washington's interests and power in the region needs no bomb for leverage, as U.S. interests and influence have already been effectively threatened since 1979 through conventional means and via financial support to groups in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. Second, the chances of the Islamic Republic's engaging in adventurism or naked aggression against its neighbors are far-fetched. The last time Iran started a war was back in 1850 to liberate Herat; its last invasion of another country was in 1738. In the immediate past, even when Afghan Taliban challenged the Tehran government both militarily and ideologically, the clerical leadership showed an astonishing restraint. Third, the possibility of the Iranian nuclear program spawning a Middle East arms race is indeed ominous, but that race started decades ago, and Iran was not the one to launch it. Furthermore, Israel, Pakistan and India are already nuclear powers. Iraq, Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf emirates all enjoy U.S. or NATO presence, alliance or protection and, thus, have no need of a nuclear defensive shield. No Iranian government, no matter how belligerent or stupid, would dare provoke or challenge American or NATO forces. Still further, potential candidates for the race--Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Turkey--present technical, financial, political and security problems of their own, and their foray into the nuclear bazaar is highly circumstantial. (46) Finally, Iran might hesitate to start a regional nuclear arms race because it would lose its current superiority in conventional weapons. Fourth, there is the straw-man issue of a "bold Iran" engaging in nuclear coercion through the so-called "suitcase bomb." (47) But chemical and biological weapons would be much cheaper to produce, less cumbersome to pack and carry, easier to handle and more devastating in effect. Fifth, Iran's influence in OPEC, whatever it might be, will be neither augmented nor diminished by possession of the bomb, but rather by its own oil-capacity limitations. Last, and most crucial, Washington's concern about the Islamic Republic's posture toward the Jewish state seems to be a bogus argument to neutral observers. The esteemed Israeli military historian Martin van Creveld believes that, "given the balance of forces," it cannot be argued that a nuclear Iran will threaten the United States or even Israel. (48) Since the chances of mutual annihilation loom large in any nuclear first strike, a nuclear Iran would not dare initiate such an attack. Visiting the Natanz centrifuge facility, President Ahmadinejad told the staff, "What enemies fear is not production of an atomic bomb because in today's world atomic weapons are not efficient." (49) The new president may be a political amateur, occasionally making dimwitted statements, but he is neither a fool nor a suicide bomber. Some pundits argue that a Shiite belief in martyrdom, coupled with the Iranian regime's extremist ideology, could render deterrence meaningless. (50) Such people know neither Shiite martyrdom nor the regime leaders' instinct for self-preservation, nor even the mullahs' bazaari habit of always looking for the best deal.

Give Russia war zero probability – politics, military superiority, economic concerns, and nuclear security
Graham 2007 - (Thomas, Russia in Global Affairs, "The dialectics of strength and weakness", http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1129.html, WEA)

An astute historian of Russia, Martin Malia, wrote several years ago that “Russia has at different times been demonized or divinized by Western opinion less because of her real role in Europe than because of the fears and frustrations, or hopes and aspirations, generated within European society by its own domestic problems.” Such is the case today. To be sure, mounting Western concerns about Russia are a consequence of Russian policies that appear to undermine Western interests, but they are also a reflection of declining confidence in our own abilities and the efficacy of our own policies. Ironically, this growing fear and distrust of Russia come at a time when Russia is arguably less threatening to the West, and the United States in particular, than it has been at any time since the end of the Second World War. Russia does not champion a totalitarian ideology intent on our destruction, its military poses no threat to sweep across Europe, its economic growth depends on constructive commercial relations with Europe, and its strategic arsenal – while still capable of annihilating the United States – is under more reliable control than it has been in the past fifteen years and the threat of a strategic strike approaches zero probability. Political gridlock in key Western countries, however, precludes the creativity, risk-taking, and subtlety needed to advance our interests on issues over which we are at odds with Russia while laying the basis for more constructive long-term relations with Russia.


===1nc Solvency=== 

Counternarcotics continues after the plan 

a. military interdiction
State Department, 9 (“Status of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Counternarcotics Programs in Afghanistan” December, http://oig.state.gov/documents/organization/134183.pdf

The U.S. military and coalition forces perceive a strong link in Afghanistan between the narcotics industry and support for insurgents. Consequently, the U.S. military has assumed greater responsibility for overall counternarcotics efforts. This increased involvement will impact the scope and function of counternarcotics programs conducted under chief of mission authority at Embassy Kabul.

b. Afghanistan’s National Interdiction Unit is independently capable 
Choi et al, 9 – George Mason School for Public Policy (Mike, “Combating the Opium Trade in Afghanistan”, New Voices in Public Policy, Fall, http://journals.gmu.edu/index.php/newvoices/article/viewFile/100/97

The objective of the Interdiction Pillar is to assist Afghanistan’s government in eliminating narcotics processing and trafficking by enforcing counternarcotics laws. Enforcement is comprised of seizing drugs, destroying drug labs, and arresting members of major drug trafficking organizations.83 Moreover, the Interdiction Pillar protects all aspects of the Five Pillars Plan.84 Successful interdiction requires attention towards law enforcement agencies in Afghanistan; more specifically, the National Interdiction Unit (NIU) of the Counter Narcotics Police of Afghanistan (CNPA). The DEA trains, mentors, and supports the NIU in laboratory raids, collecting evidence, apprehensions and prosecutions.85 The DEA has also established the Foreign-deployed Advisory and Support Teams (FAST) to conduct investigations with the goal of targeting and identifying drug trafficking organizations.86 Each FAST team consists of eight special agents, one intelligence analyst, and one supervisor. Two teams are deployed at a time for 120-day rotations. 87 
The DoS noted that the NIU was capable of independently leading operations in 2009.88 From October 2006 through December 2008, 4.099 metric tons of heroin, 2.448 metric tons of opium, and 238.035 metric tons of hashish has been seized.89 Additionally, seventeen drug labs were destroyed and 1,012 kg of solid precursor chemicals and 592 liters of liquid precursors, used to make illicit drugs, have also been seized.90 Strong emphasis is also placed on disrupting the flow of drugs and chemicals to and from Afghanistan under Operation Containment.91 Operation Containment consists of eighteen countries, including countries in central Asia, Europe, and Russia.92


==Japan TMD neg== 

===1nc ROK-Japan disad=== 


Regional missile defense is key regional cooperation and ROK-Japan relations
Hackett 9 (James, 4/7, “Obama lowers our shield; As North Korea launches missiles into orbit”, Lexis)

It is surprising that North Korea's testing of president obama by firing a long-range missile should coincide with word from the administration that it plans to slow the major program defending this country against such threats. When North Korea launched its missile, dozens of radars and other sensors followed it, confirming that its payload fell into the sea. Either its payload was not a satellite or it was one that failed to reach orbit. Apparently the missile was an improved Taepodong-2 that went farther than ever before. But there is good news. This time a virtual armada of interceptors on land and sea was ready to shoot it down. A signal achievement of the George W. Bush administration was its withdrawal from the highly restrictive Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty and the subsequent deployment of missile defenses that previously were banned, such as the land- and sea-based interceptors that stood guard last week. The backbone of our national missile defense, the 26 Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) interceptors in Alaska and California, were on alert, ready to shoot down the missile if ordered to do so. So were a number of Navy ships. The United States, Japan and South Korea cooperated as never before. A massive surveillance system of space-based, land-based and sea-based radars and airborne sensors covered the Sea of Japan like a blanket. The SPY-1 radars on Aegis destroyers were an important part of this sensor system, providing tracking data to the interceptors on land and sea. The United States reportedly had seven Aegis ships in the Sea of Japan or the North Pacific to track the launch. Japan had three Aegis destroyers on station, and South Korea's only Aegis destroyer was in the Sea of Japan to help with the tracking. Seven of the U.S. and Japanese destroyers carried SM-3 missile interceptors, designed to shoot down missiles of the kind North Korea has been testing, and some of Japan's Patriot PAC-3 land-based interceptors were moved to locations closer to the expected trajectory. Because North Korea said it was a satellite launch, the United States did not plan to shoot it down, although Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that could happen - for example, if it took an aberrant course and headed for Hawaii. Japan was ready to shoot down anything that might land on Japanese soil. Because the missile went over northern Honshu Island, dropping its first stage in the Sea of Japan and the second and third in the Pacific, it was possible they might have come down on Japan.The experience was positive for the United States and its Asian allies. Despite historical animosity between South Korea and Japan, the threat from North Korea brought them together in cooperative missile defense. Hopefully, this Northeast Asian alliance will continue, not only to contain the North Korean regime, but also to confront Chinese territorial 

Relations key – only chance for regional stability and growth and democracy
Auslin ‘5 (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)

A roadmap for Tokyo and Seoul's security cooperation exists in their current participation in regional multilateral forums. Both Seoul and Tokyo are members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Community and the asean Regional Forum. The latter in particular provides the only ministerial-level opportunity for discussing Asian security issues.15 Yet the wide political, economic, and social disparities among its member nations prevent it from forming any type of durable communal identity. As for Chinese attempts to recast multilateral organizations, these gain traction only because of concerns over China's future strength and not due to any natural formation of international bonds. Moreover, at the International Institute of Strategic Studies’ 2003 Asian security conference held in Singapore, then-jda chief Ishiba agreed with then-U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz that East Asia did not need a nato-type self-defense organization for now. nato, of course, was a self-defense organization, and creating one in East Asia would mean identifying an enemy and dividing the region into two blocs. Such a move would serve simply to exacerbate tensions and suspicions, China would undoubtedly feel targeted, and it is inconceivable in any case that East Asian nations today trust one another enough to create such an organization. If the ultimate goal of the area's governments is to create some type of all-inclusive multilateral organization, East Asia, then, must leapfrog the European experience to begin forging a region-wide mechanism. But no such community of interests currently exists to allow for that type of evolution. Precisely the kind of shared interests that mark the Japan-South Korea relationship, however, can lead those two to forming the core of a new security architecture in East Asia in ways that asean and Chinese initiatives are unable to imitate. Despite limitations on broader initiatives, Japan and Korea can take the first substantive steps towards recasting the regional security environment. They can adopt the asean Regional Forum's planned three-stage evolution of confidence-building measures, preventive diplomacy, and conflict resolution to East Asian problems, working in cooperation with both the United States and asean, and perhaps even with states such as China. Although the tcog and other initiatives noted above have already built confidence in the Japan-South Korea relationship, a viable conflict resolution mechanism will take years to build. That, however, is no reason not to capitalize on the improvements already in place. Similarly, a true Japan-Korea fta would not only be an enormous stimulus toward regional free trade, it would further bind the two nations together on security issues. Negotiating the agreement will be difficult, and inequalities in production will make a long lead-time necessary for it to be workable, but there is already the political will to start exploring the concept. With that will come a clearer recognition of the common interests linking the two states. Indeed, the specter of such an agreement has already spurred calls from Beijing for a China-Japan-Korea fta, which would have to include strict provisions for transparency, juridical mechanisms, and confidence-building measures. The emergence of such a relationship, and the potential participation of China, will likely spill over to larger issues of human rights and security. The Broader Face of Security The Japan-South Korea relationship could influence East Asian politics in yet another way. The two represent powerful examples of the liberal democratic system. Their undeniable social and economic advances should be leveraged into a regional role encouraging the spread of the rule of law, market liberalization, and social progressiveness—in short, a joint program to strengthen civil society in Asia. The expansion of democracy in Thailand, Mongolia, Taiwan, and other states offers a historic opportunity for Japan and South Korea to shape the future. In particular, the two can identify liberalizing and at-risk nations, targeting aid and expanded relations. They can increase the number of academic, intellectual, and artistic exchanges and grassroots programs with those countries; negotiate more favorable loan packages; and serve as a repository of technical and legal expertise. Cultural exchange organizations such as the Japan and Korea Foundations can provide initial funding, and established venues such as the Japan Center for International Exchange (jcie) and the International House of Tokyo offer the infrastructure and expertise for running meaningful exchange programs. Not least important, this perhaps is the most attractive way to interact with China, seeking to integrate it more fully into a new set of regional norms defined by the success of Japan and Korea. In the same way, the Japan-South Korea relationship can serve as the nucleus of a liberal bloc in East Asia designed to project a common political front against failing or rogue states. The case of North Korea is obvious, and perhaps unique, but regional pressure on Myanmar could also be more effective with a push led by Japan and South Korea. The Japan-South Korea relationship can also help manage the transition to a peaceful reunification of the Korean peninsula. The necessary human and financial capital can come largely from those two countries, and a clear Japanese commitment to helping produce a liberal, democratic, stable, one-Korea will go a long way toward dispelling the lingering resentments of colonialism and war. Taiwan, of course, is the biggest wildcard in all of this. By rights, it should be part of the Japan-South Korea relationship, as another liberal, democratic, free-market state. The unique problem of Sino-Taiwanese relations, the longstanding U.S. position against Taiwanese independence, and the effective diplomatic isolation of Taiwan due to Chinese pressure make it an extremely sensitive issue. Yet the trends discussed in this article affect Taiwan just as much as they affect Japan and South Korea. If the Japan-South Korea relationship strengthens and evolves to play a role like the one envisioned here, then the course of events in East Asia may make it unavoidable that Taiwan will be seen as a natural partner of the new East Asian core. In that case, Beijing will have to decide the direction it wants to go, and it will be up to the coalition of liberal states in East Asia to make it clear that there is only one path that will benefit all players in the region. Tokyo and Seoul's ultimate goal in strengthening their bonds is maintaining peace and stability in Northeast Asia. The combined economic, military, and cultural power of the two nations is enough to start the process of forming a durable security architecture centered on these two democratic, free-market states. A conscious bilateral policy to work for stability and to spread political and economic norms in the region would naturally attract other states sharing those values, particularly Taiwan and the Philippines.

The impact is nuclear wars
Emmott, 8 - former editor of the Economist (Bill, ‘Power rises in the east,’ The Australian, June 4, pg. l/n

As well as knitting them, however, this drama is also grinding together Asian powers that had previously kept a strict economic and political separation from one another. China, India and Japan are bumping against each other because their national interests are overlapping and in part competing. Each is suspicious of the others' motives and intentions and all three hope to get their own way in Asia and further afield.
To have three great powers at the same time may be unprecedented for Asia but it is not for the world. There was a similar situation in Europe during the 19th century, when Britain, France, Russia, Austria and, until German unification, Prussia, existed in an uneasy balance in which none was dominant and none was entirely comfortable, but which nevertheless coincided with a period during which Europe prospered and became firmly established as the world's dominant region.
Whether you consider Europe's 19th-century experience with balance-of-power politics as a good or bad omen for Asia depends on how long a sweep of history you consider and on what you think are the most crucial differences between modern times and the world of 150 years ago. If you take a long sweep, then the precedent is bad, since Europe's power balance ended in two devastating world wars. On the other hand, it kept the peace on the continent for about half a century, which would count as an optimistic prospect today.
Today the barriers against the use of war as a tool of national policy are far higher: nuclear weapons, public opinion, international law, instant communication and transparency all militate against conflict, though they do not rule it out altogether. The barriers against colonial or quasi-colonial ambitions are higher still. China and India may battle for influence over Burma, but neither is likely to invade it and turn it into a colony. Nevertheless, Asia is piled high with historical bitterness, unresolved territorial disputes, potential flashpoints and strategic competition that could readily ignite. There are at least five known flashpoints where it is already clear that any could involve the major powers: the Sino-Indian border and Tibet, North and South Korea, the East China Sea and the Senkaku-Diaoyutai islands, Taiwan and Pakistan.


===2nc ROK-Japan disad=== 

Disad outweighs on probability
Landy 2000 (Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, L/N)

Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But even a minor miscalculation by any of them could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy, and even start a nuclear war. India, Pakistan, and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea may have a few, too. Asia lacks the kinds of organizations, negotiations, and diplomatic relationships that helped keep an uneasy peace for five decades in Cold War Europe.
“Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile,” said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. “We see the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster.
In an effort to cool the region’s tempers, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger all will hopscotch Asia’s capitals this month.
For America, the stakes could hardly be higher.
There are 100,000 U.S. troops in Asia committed to defending Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, and the United States would instantly become embroiled if Beijing moved against Taiwan or North Korea attacked South Korea. While Washington has no defense commitments to either India or Pakistan, a conflict between the two could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime.

Improving Japan-South Korea relations solves regional proliferation, including japan
Bakanic et al ‘8 (Elizabeth, Mark Christopher, Sandya Das, Laurie Freeman, George Hodgson, Mike Hunzeker, R. Scott Kemp, Sung Hwan Lee, Florentina Mulaj, Ryan Phillips, “Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt”, January, http://wws.princeton.edu/research/pwreports_f07/wws591f.pdf)

RECOMMENDATION 5: Encourage reconciliation between South Korea and Japan U.S. alliances with Japan and South Korea form the bulwark of Washington’s security strategy in Northeast Asia, yet these two allies continue to view one another with apprehension, if not outright hostility. Indeed, both Japan and South Korea would see the development of nuclear weapons by the other as a potential trigger for their own pursuit of nuclear weapons. Improving Japan-South Korea relations would have myriad benefits for Northeast Asian stability, including reducing tensions that could lead to nuclear proliferation. The United States therefore should pursue the following measures: Support regional forums that bring together Japan and South Korea To help promote consultation and coordination between Japan and South Korea, the United States should encourage the new South Korean administration to participate in the ministerial-level U.S.-Japan-Australia strategic dialogue. The United States should also seek to reinstate the U.S.-Japan-South Korea Trilateral Coordination and Oversight Group (TCOG), with a view to broadening the group’s agenda beyond North Korea issues. Maintain an impartial stance on territorial disputes and other historical issues between Japan and South Korea Bilateral problems between Japan and South Korea risk stoking dangerous nationalist passions in both countries. Perceived U.S. bias towards one country or the other would only exacerbate these tendencies. Washington should continue to avoid direct comment on or involvement in these matters, so as not to damage its relationship with either country. The United States should continue to encourage interaction, confidence-building measures, and amicable resolution of differences between its allies.

Key to diplomacy solving North Korea
Green ’99 (Michael, Olin Fellow for Asian Security – CFR, Acting Dir. – Edwin O. Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies of Johns Hopkins U., former Research Staff – Institute for Defense Analysis, and former Senior Advisor – Pentagon Office of Asia Pacific Affairs, “Japan-ROK Security Relations: An American Perspective”, March, http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/10060/Green.pdf)

The United States requires stable and cooperative Japan-ROK relations not only to maintain deterrence on the Korean Peninsula, but also to begin reducing tensions and the risks of war. Tightly coordinated U.S.-Japan-ROK approaches to engagement of the North can allow for bigger “carrots,” while putting more pressure on Pyongyang to address security concerns such as missiles, terrorism, and nuclear proliferation. Japan has already agreed to pay $1 billion of the estimated $4.7 billion cost for the light-water reactors to be developed in North Korea in exchange for the North abandoning its nuclear-weapons-grade reactor program under the 1994 Agreed Framework. Japan is also expected to pay billions of dollars in reparations to North Korea if Tokyo’s normalization talks with Pyongyang succeed. These payments could become an indispensable tool for negotiating reductions in the North’s arsenals or for reconstruction of the North in any unification process. However, Japan has grown increasingly dissatisfied with engagement of Pyongyang since the North has refused to resolve either the case of Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korean commandos or the development and testing of ballistic missiles that range Japan (both discussed below). There is also growing frustration in Japan with the diplomatic architecture for the peninsula, since Tokyo is not a participant in the Four-Party Talks, where terrorism and missiles are discussed.

Korea is heavily invested in missile defense cooperation with Japan
The Korea Herald September 18, 2010 “U.S. working with S. Korea, Japan on missile defense” Lexis

Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington, Sharp said: "We're trying to get the three countries of the U.S., Korea and Japan to do some better coordination in order to be able to have a regional type of ballistic missile defense." Asked about Seoul's contribution to the U.S.-led ballistic missile defense system for the region, he said South Korea is increasing its missile defense capability. "(South Korea's) increase in missile capability, to be delivered in the next several years, includes some command and control and additional things that will have a link in them to ours," Sharp said. The U.S. wants South Korea's participation in a regional MD system, classifying the country as an important ballistic missile defense partner in East Asia, along with Japan and Australia, in its 2010 Ballistic Missile Defense Review released earlier this year.

Relations are high now because of BMD itself
DoS (Department of State) October 2010 “2010 Multinational BMD Conference and Exhibition”

It is fitting that this conference is being held in Japan. Japan is a leader in missile defense and is the United States' closest missile defense partner. Our missile defense cooperation is a vital aspect of both of our countries' approaches to international security and essential to our future missile defense plans. The United States views the entire Asia-Pacific region as vital to both U.S. and international security as well as international prosperity. We have a very strong and shared history with the countries of the Asia-Pacific region and the Obama Administration is committed to working with our allies and partners to strengthen stability and security in the region. President Obama came into office focused on a new era of engagement in order to strengthen our common security. As part of that, we extended an open hand to Iran and North Korea. This unprecedented openness and willingness to talk, however, has not been reciprocated. In the case of North Korea our efforts were greeted with a nuclear test and missile launches, including the failed effort to launch the long-range Taepo Dong-2 missile. More recently, the North Koreans have threatened to "further strengthen their nuclear deterrent" and launched an unprovoked attack that sunk a South Korean warship. These provocative actions pose security threats to North Korea's neighbors and the region. Iran too has rejected our outstretched hand. It has continued work on its nuclear and missile programs despite international condemnation in the form of legally binding Chapter 41 United Nations Security Council Resolutions. It has now deployed approximately 1,000 short and medium-range missiles that are a threat to our friends and allies the Middle East and Europe. It continues to develop more advanced missiles such as the two-stage solid-propellant Ashura medium-range ballistic missile and has recently displayed a large space launch vehicle that could form the basis of an ICBM. As we look at the tools we have available to respond to these threats, missile defense stands out as a key response. Around the world, the Obama Administration is seeking to cooperate with our allies and friends on missile defense both bilaterally and, as a result of our comprehensive Ballistic Missile Defense Review, we want to develop cooperative regional missile defense phased adaptive approaches. As part of these efforts, the State Department has taken a leading role in implementing President Obama's Administration's missile defense goals, including our efforts in Northeast Asia. The first effort at these regional phased adaptive approaches as you have all heard is our European Phased Adaptive Approach or EPAA which was announced by President Obama a little over a year ago. This is the approach we are pursuing to defend our European Allies from Iran's growing ballistic missile capabilities. It is an approach that addresses the threat in a prioritized manner consistent with the level and scope of the Iranian threat and provides protection for all of our European NATO allies. In the year since President Obama's announcement, we have made considerable progress in implementing the EPAA. We have begun negotiating an agreement with Romania to host a southern land-based SM-3 site which is to be deployed by 2015. I just returned last week from the third round of negotiations on this agreement. The United States and Poland have signed an amendment to the Ballistic Missile Defense Agreement or BMDA which will allow us to deploy a land-based SM-3 interceptor site in Poland by 2018. At NATO, this new approach has been greeted with widespread appreciation and support by our Allies. Unlike the previous system, which protected only some of our allies, this system will protect all our NATO Allies in a manner prioritized to the threat. We are also working closely with them to put this regional architecture squarely into a NATO context at the upcoming Lisbon Summit this November. In Asia, Japan and South Korea are already important missile defense partners and we will continue to consult with Australia on this issue. However, beyond this bilateral cooperation, we need to develop a similar framework for missile defense cooperation that will allow us to expand our bilateral cooperation into one where nations share ballistic missile defense information and capabilities on a multilateral basis. There are real political, operational and budgetary reasons for joining in such a cooperative effort. First, politically this cooperation can demonstrate our shared commitment to respond to regional threats with defensive systems to protect our populations, territories and military forces. Such action can lessen our individual and collective susceptibility to coercion and intimidation from these missile threats, thereby limiting their impact on our decision making processes. At the same time, missile defenses increase the cost for countries developing ballistic missiles and further place doubt about the ability of their systems to succeed in meeting their goals.

Causes an ROK shift away from Japan – East Asian missile defense cooperation is based on trilateral ties between the US, ROK, and Japan – they’re deepening now
Wallace C. Gregson 10 (Assistant Secretary, Asia and Pacific Security Affairs Department of Defense) July 27, 2010 “JAPAN: RECENT SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICEs” Lexis

Since coming to power, the Democratic Party of Japan has focused on strengthening Japan's ties with countries in the region. The U.S. welcomes these relationship-building efforts. Perhaps the most significant and positive recent development in regional relations has been the strengthening of trilateral ties among the United States, Japan, and South Korea. Our three nations share values, interests, and a common view of the dangers posed by North Korea's missile and nuclear developments. We have deepened these ties through the Defense Trilateral Talks. Just as the two Northeast Asian alliances are commemorating important anniversaries that symbolize the abiding U.S. commitment the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security and the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War we are also charting a course to broaden and deepen trilateral defense ties.

US is pressuring South Korea into BMD cooperation with Japan - plan causes a shift
The Korea Herald September 18, 2010 “U.S. working with S. Korea, Japan on missile defense” Lexis

Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington, Sharp said: "We're trying to get the three countries of the U.S., Korea and Japan to do some better coordination in order to be able to have a regional type of ballistic missile defense." Asked about Seoul's contribution to the U.S.-led ballistic missile defense system for the region, he said South Korea is increasing its missile defense capability. "(South Korea's) increase in missile capability, to be delivered in the next several years, includes some command and control and additional things that will have a link in them to ours," Sharp said. The U.S. wants South Korea's participation in a regional MD system, classifying the country as an important ballistic missile defense partner in East Asia, along with Japan and Australia, in its 2010 Ballistic Missile Defense Review released earlier this year.

Would cause a shift to bilateral US-ROK BMD cooperation
Jenny Shin (Center for Defense Information Research Assistant) August 2009 “The Concern with South Korea's Missile Defense System” http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?
DocumentID=4537&ProgramID=6&StartRow=1&ListRows=10&from_page=../whatsnew/index.cfm

But now we see an administration, under President Lee Myung-Bak, that is more receptive to the idea of missile defense in response to increased tensions on the Korean peninsula. These tensions are in part due to the current’s administration’s conservative stance of providing conditional economic aid in exchange for North Korea’s abandonment of its nuclear program. North Korea has yet to yield to the terms of the policy and has in the meantime opted to engage in relentless provocations that have increasingly strained inter-Korean relations over the past two years.[10] Recent missile tests by North Korea highlight the dangers that exist on the Korean peninsula, making the South Korean government more willing to establish stronger military and diplomatic ties with the United States. But apart from the close ties, South Korea announced in February 2009 its intent to develop and operationalize an independent lower-tier missile defense system by 2012. South Korea’s air and missile defense (KAMD) would consist of U.S. Patriot Advanced Capability missile interceptors, an Air and Missile Defense-Cell (AMD-Cell) command-and-control center to track and detect missiles of up to 1000 km away, and tactical SM-2 missiles to be equipped on three Aegis destroyer warships.[11] [12] It is unknown as to how big of a role the United States will play in South Korea’s missile defense system, but given the military ties between the countries and the United States’ technical capabilities in missile defense, it is likely the United States will play an important role.

This trilateral arrangement is key to prevent relations collapse – otherwise historical bilateral tensions collapse Japan-ROK
Stuart Baimel (Political Science Department, Stanford University) 2009 “CISAC awards certificates in international security studies to 12 seniors” http://fsi.stanford.edu/news/cisac_awards_certificates_in_international_security_studies_to_12_seniors_20090612/

The United States maintains strong security alliances with Japan and South Korea and has had troops based in both countries for 60 years. Despite these alliances, the two Asian countries have very weak and acrimonious relations with each other, and trilateral relations are often completely nonexistent. In this study, Stuart Baimel determined what causes trilateral interactions to be so weak considering the strength of the alliances. He examined three hypotheses as to why trilateralism has been so weak-nationalist historical animosity, the abandonment/entrapment dynamic and idea of a Sinocentric hierarchy. He determined that the interplay between two factors causes trilateral relations to be weak. The first factor is personal leadership-the changes and variations in the political leadership over time. The second is historical animosity-the antagonism between Japan and South Korea stemming from Japan's colonization of Korea in the early twentieth century.


===1nc Tomahawk disad=== 

A. Uniqueness – Tomahawk to be retired now – but hasn’t been implemented yet
Global Security Newswire, staff writer, 4/8/2010, "Pentagon to Phase Out Nuclear-Armed Tomahawk Cruise Missiles,' http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100408_8067.php, access 1/8/11

The U.S. Defense Department yesterday announced plans to gradually phase out use of the nuclear-tipped Tomahawk cruise missile over the next several years, Agence France-Presse reported (see GSN, Feb. 22).
"The time line for its retirement will be over the next two to three years," Principal Deputy Defense Undersecretary James Miller said.

B. Link 
1. Reductions to nuclear presence only exist due to regional missile defense
Yusaf Butt, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, 5/8/2010, "The myth of missile defense as a deterrent," http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-myth-of-missile-defense-deterrent, access 1/8/11

The Obama administration's long-awaited Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) "establishes U.S. nuclear policy, strategy, capabilities and force posture for the next five to ten years." The review signals a fresh approach to nuclear doctrine; however, its reliance on missile defense as an element of nuclear deterrence is wrong. Such systems are useless, dangerous, and destabilizing, and ramping up reliance on missile defenses because of planned reductions to the U.S. operational nuclear stockpile is deeply misguided. Specifically, the new NPR states, "Nuclear forces will continue to play an essential role in deterring potential adversaries and reassuring allies and partners around the world. But fundamental changes in the international security environment in recent years--including the growth of unrivaled U.S. conventional military capabilities, major improvements in missile defenses [emphasis added], and the easing of Cold War rivalries--enable us to fulfill those objectives at significantly lower nuclear force levels and with reduced reliance on nuclear weapons." In other words, the posture review essentially asserts that missile defense can somehow compensate for the deterrent capability that will supposedly be lost due to reductions in the U.S. nuclear stockpile. Setting aside the fact that there haven't been any realistic tests indicating "major improvements in missile defenses," such logic is questionable on three levels.

2. In East Asia, regional nuclear deterrence was based on the Tomahawk – that means Japan BMD elimination would cause reversal of Tomahawk retirement
Todd Crowell, Asia Sentinel staff writer, 12/4/2009, "Japan: Save the Endangered Tomahawk! ," http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2178&Itemid=176, access 1/8/11

The main area of concern is Washington's desire to retire the nuclear version of the Tomahawk cruise missile by 2013. The Tomahawk is a pilotless flying bomb capable of carrying both conventional and nuclear warheads. The conventional version was used in the Gulf War and invasion of Iraq.
Tokyo sees the Tomahawk, especially submarine-launched cruise missiles, as the most logical weapon of deterrence in the neighborhood, since the last tactical bombs were removed from US bases in South Korea and aboard US Navy aircraft carriers nearly two decades ago.
This summer Japanese embassy officials in Washington quietly but strongly lobbied against American plans to retire the nuclear version of the Tomahawk in the context of the Congressional Commission on Strategic Posture of the United States. Its recommendation will go into Washington's forthcoming Nuclear Posture Review, which will determine the basic nuclear defense, disarmament and proliferation policies for the next decade.
The body, headed by two former defense secretaries, was formed in 2008 and issued its first report in May. It said: "One particularly important ally has argued to the commission privately that the credibility of the US extended [nuclear] deterrence depends on the specific capability to hold a variety of targets at risk in a way that is either visible or stealthy as circumstances warrant."
It went on to elaborate: "In Asia extended deterrence relies heavily on the deployment of nuclear cruise missiles on some Los Angeles-class attack submarines… it has become clear that some allies in Asia would be very concerned about [Tomahawk] retirement."

The impact is global nuclear war
Glaser, U Chicago Public Policy Studies School Deputy Dean and Professor, and Fetter, UMD Public Policy Dean and Professor, 2005 
[Charles, Steve, "Counterforce Revisited," International Security 30.2 ]

This brief discussion suggests that the combination of an assertive U.S. foreign policy with a nuclear strategy that emphasizes counternuclear capabilities has the potential to be doubly dangerous. Such a foreign policy could lead potential adversaries to believe that the United States is interested in overthrowing their regime or conquering their country. The U.S. invasion of Iraq and the Bush administration's emphasis on regime change have had this effect on North Korea and Iran. Given this belief about U.S. goals, an adversary would be more likely to believe that U.S. aims in a regional conflict are unlimited, which would increase its incentives to rush to alert its nuclear forces and to employ limited nuclear attacks early in a conflict to deter the United States. These incentives could reinforce the pressures created by vulnerable nuclear forces for the adversary to escalate to nuclear use. The danger posed by combining these incentives suggests another reason that nuclear proliferation should lead the United States to adopt a more restrained foreign policy.
The ability to destroy the adversary's forces could also create incentives for the United States to attack early in a conflict. If the adversary has the ability to make its capabilities more survivable—for example, by dispersing forces or delegating launch authority—the United States would face pressure to launch counternuclear attacks before the adversary institutes these survivability [End Page 122] measures.74 We can foresee a spiral of crisis interactions that increase the probability of a U.S. attack: improvements in U.S. nuclear forces magnify the adversary's incentives in a crisis to raise the alert status of its forces; this increase in alert status creates pressure for the United States to attack while its forces are still effective; in addition, the United States might interpret the adversary's move as indicating that it plans to attack, further increasing the pressure on the United States to attack quickly. Consequently, the counternuclear forces that enhance deterrence and limit damage are also likely to create time pressures that increase the probability that a crisis would escalate to nuclear war. A variety of costs could result. Although preemption to limit damage might be the best option, pressures to attack early increase the probability of unnecessary attacks—that is, mistaken preemption in cases in which the adversary was not going to escalate to nuclear attacks. If some of the adversary's force then survives, it might launch a retaliatory nuclear attack against U.S. interests. In addition, the U.S. attack could result in extensive collateral damage with large humanitarian costs. And as noted above, this otherwise avoidable use of nuclear weapons would likely weaken the nuclear taboo and damage the United States' international reputation.

===1nc Dialogue counterplan=== 


COUNTERPLAN TEXT: The United States federal government should enter into strategic dialogue with China over missile defense in Asia, where it will offer to restrict its missile defense to cover solely Japan and offer to exclude Taiwan from missile defense arrangements. The United States Supreme Court should issue a narrow ruling that any policy that retains the option of first use of nuclear weapons is a prohibited violation of the International Court of Justice Legality of the Threat of Use of Nuclear Weapons Advisory Opinion.

Dialogue with China over NMD solves the aff
Finkelstein, 1ac author, PhD, 1
David, National Missile Defense and China’s Current Security Perceptions, Report 42, Presented to the Stimson/CNA NMD-China Project on December 14, 2001, Scholar

The long term strategic concerns Beijing has about US intentions toward China or the defense of Taiwan will not go away any time soon or very easily. But as difficult as it seems to achieve given all that has gone on in US-China security relations beforehand, China’s best bet yet might be to involve itself in the process and seek reassurances from the US rather than to wish away the NMD program. This will require a stable, frank, and cooperative relationship between Washington and Beijing so that serious dialogue can take place. 
The time may in fact be ripe for a new US-China approach to the NMD issue. For one thing, the events of 911 and the Bush-Jiang Shanghai meeting can lead to, and ought to lead to, a new level of USChina discourse on the NMD issue. Certainly, it appears that there has been some subtle change in US Government statements vis-à-vis China and NMD. Now, echoing pre-911 administration statements about seeking a “limited NMD system,” the US Deputy Secretary of Defense, Paul Wolfowitz, in a recent Far Eastern Economic Review interview, directly assailed the Chinese argument that a future hypothetical US attack on China was more likely if Washington possesses NMD (the Chinese logic train cited earlier in this essay). But more interesting and potentially significant was a statement that seems to imply that the US and China might be able to reach a modus vivendi on NMD just as the US and Russia are 12 attempting. As reported in the article Mr. Wolfowitz stated, “I really don’t doubt we can reach a balance in which China feels secure and doesn’t threaten other people.” 11 

Keeping Taiwan out of missile defense placates China
Welch et al 2003 – George Ignatieff Professor of Peace and Conflict Studies, University of Toronto (Yoshihide Soeya, Jianwei Wang, and David A. Welch, Asian Perspective, 27.3, “a New Look at the U.S.-China-Japan Triangle: Toward Building a Stable Framework”, http://www.asianperspective.org/articles/v27n3-f.pdf, WEA)

If asked, most American officials would have said that, before 9/11 the greatest long-term danger to the United States was rogue states’ nuclear and ballistic missile programs. The same officials would likely have said also that the first lines of defense against this threat were the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Missile Technology Control Regime, and sanctions regimes of various kinds against countries such as Iran, Iraq, Libya, and North Korea. The Bush administration differed from its predecessors in its enthusiasm for another line of defense: ABM systems. Curiously, the Bush administration has construed the 9/11 attacks not as evidence that rogue states, and their non-state terrorist protégés, can relatively easily outflank ABM systems, finding creative unconventional ways of delivering weapons of mass destruction (suggesting, in short, that a hugely expensive program would be a complete waste of money), but as evidence of the genuine value of ballistic missile defense (BMD). This reflects the strength of the administration’s prior commitment to BMD and the strength of the associated array of vested interests. The upshot is that 9/11 further energized the administration’s interest in BMD—both in its Theater Missile Defense (TMD) and National Missile Defense (NMD) variants.
Strategic competitors such as China and Russia oppose American missile defense programs in part because they would threaten to reduce the deterrent value of their own nuclear arsenals. They would also further buttress American hegemony. Russia, however, has opted not to jeopardize its improving relationship with the United States by tilting at this particular windmill, putting China in a potentially difficult spot. Unlike strategic competitors, friends and allies of the United States do not have the option of challenging U.S. missile defense squarely, but almost across the board they have evinced nervous concern and have made clear their unhappiness with Washington’s decision to abandon the ABM Treaty. Europe’s initial concern was that NMD would “de-couple” European and American security, leaving Europe relatively exposed. But a number of U.S. allies in Europe and elsewhere have also flagged the danger of a renewed arms race as a compelling reason not to abandon the threedecade-old ABM regime. To alleviate these concerns, Washington has stopped making the distinction between TMD and NMD, and has begun to insist that it will now pursue a global missile defense that would benefit allies as well as the United States, embracing as its preferred term the generic expression “Missile Defense” (MD). Washington has also embarked upon an energetic diplomatic effort designed to assure allies and strategic competitors alike that, while it hopes to deploy an MD system capable of destroying stray small-scale attacks from rogue states, it has no intention of pursuing a full-scale ABM system of the kind envisioned under President Ronald Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative. Moreover, the Bush administration has said that it will pursue multilateral nuclear arms reductions energetically. Finally, the Bush administration has been engaged in a serious rhetorical effort to discredit the “cold-war logic” of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD) so as to win international converts to the MD cause. Thus, it is proceeding with missile defense, understanding it as part and parcel of the fight against terrorism and its rogue state sponsors that form what the Bush administration now calls, with rather inflammatory results, an “axis of evil” (specifically, North Korea, Iran, and Iraq). 80
All of this, of course, has implications for U.S.-China relations, because it both makes possible, and establishes constraints on, strategic co-existence. China’s new policy of moderation was fortuitously timed to take advantage of Washington’s need for great power allies in the war on terror, and this has permitted the two countries to establish a productive working relationship with respect to this particular issue, subsequently improving the atmosphere of the relationship overall. Thus, the two countries put on a remarkable display of solidarity at the October 2001 APEC Summit in Shanghai, which led to a joint statement condemning terrorism as a serious threat to peace, prosperity, and the security of all peoples, and a challenge to the basic values of APEC members. According to a Chinese source, President Bush told Jiang Zemin that he would not have come to the APEC Summit if it had not been held in China. 81 Bush’s desire for a closer working relationship with China has also encouraged Washington to avoid reckless provocation with respect to TMD. China’s main concern about American anti-ballistic missile programs has always been that, in the context of a theater missile defense arrangement, Taiwan would fall under an American ABM umbrella. To some extent, Bush’s new emphasis on MD as a comprehensive program has alleviated this particular concern. But China is still wary. And as we noted above, Beijing is irritated by the Bush administration’s apparent unwillingness to reciprocate Chinese moderation on the Taiwan issue by moderating its support for Taiwan proportionately. 

American NFU policy solves their advantages
Lewis, 2009 [Jeffrey, Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative @ New America Foundation, (Former executive director of the Managing the Atom Project at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Ph.D. in policy studies (international security and economic policy) from the University of Maryland), “Chinese Nuclear Posture and Force Modernization,” Engaging China and Russia on Nuclear Disarmament, Editors: Cristina Hansell and William C. Potter, Occasional Paper No. 15, April 2009] 

In the United States, we tend to think about two implications that will arise from China’s deployment of new mobile ballistic missiles. Some argue that a more survivable Chinese deterrent will increase the threat to the United States, discouraging Washington from coming to the aid of Taiwan in a crisis. Others have suggested that the deployment of more survivable Chinese strategic forces will prove stabilizing because a U.S. president would be less likely to initiate a nuclear strike against Chinese targets. Both of these views emphasize the role of nuclear weapons in deterring a deliberate attack. Yet the prospect that either a Chinese or U.S. political leader would initiate nuclear hostilities seems extremely remote. A very different concern is the possibility of an accident or miscalculation arising from the interaction of alert U.S. and Chinese forces. China’s strategic forces have been placed on alert only once, in 1969 during the Sino-Soviet crisis.24 Th is event remains confusing—Lin Biao, Mao’s heir apparent who would later die attempting to flee China, allegedly after a failed coup attempt against Mao, appears to have placed the Second Artillery on alert without going through established procedures. The event may have reinforced concerns within the Chinese leadership about the need to maintain control over the country’s nuclear forces. Today, however, China is changing rapidly. Chinese leaders will have an arsenal comprising new solid-fueled missile systems that maximize survivability by standing alert—either by placing mobile missiles in the field or patrolling submarines at sea—and a vastly more professional military. Even if Chinese leaders do not keep forces on alert as a peacetime routine, in a severe crisis they may be tempted to raise the alert level of Second Artillery forces to demonstrate their resolve. Zhanyi Xue suggested such a course of action, calling it “anti-nuclear deterrence combat”—“ the military operation that shows our nuclear power and will.”25 Based on press reports of exercises, in a crisis China would disperse mobile ballistic missiles and fuel missiles in fixed sites. 26 How would American policy makers react, especially if U.S. forces were placed on alert? The history of U.S. alert operations suggests that they have an inherent escalatory potential. In studies of the four U.S. DEFCON-3 or higher alerts, Scott Sagan found that orders were frequently misunderstood or ambiguous events misinterpreted to confirm the sense of crisis, and he concluded that “keeping the alert at the desired level will be extremely difficult, and the degree of further grave escalation uncertain.”27 The inherent risk is captured by President John F. Kennedy’s sardonic remark, upon learning that a U.S. U-2 plane had strayed into Soviet airspace during the Cuban Missile Crisis, that “There’s always some son-of-a-bitch who doesn’t get the message.”28 One can imagine, for instance, the potential for escalation if Chinese missile submarines put out to sea during a crisis. U.S. attack submarines would surely attempt to tail them. What would happen if two submarines collided? Or if the Chinese submarine suffered a crippling accident, like the torpedo explosion that sank the Russian submarine Kursk? Would Chinese policy makers, in a crisis atmosphere, be able to distinguish the loss of contact with submarines from early eff orts to eliminate their deterrent? How would U.S. policy makers react if China appeared to prepare mobile ballistic missiles that could perform antisatellite missions? Or anti-ship DF-21D missiles that, externally, are identical to China’s nuclear-armed DF-21 and DF-21As? Concluding Observations The United States and China have begun a formal dialogue on strategic issues in recent years. In 2005, then-Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld visited the headquarters of the Second Artillery. In 2008, the United States and China established a hotline linking the Department of Defense and the Chinese Defense Ministry and initiated talks between their two militaries on nuclear issues. In June 2008, the United States and China concluded the fourth bilateral U.S.-China Security Dialogue between Acting-Undersecretary of State John Rood and Vice Minister He Yafei. These efforts are a welcome beginning to what will be a long dialogue between parties with very diff erent views about nuclear weapons. While American commentators oft en state that the purpose of China’s nuclear force is to discourage U.S. involvement in a crisis over Taiwan, Chinese officials continue to describe their deterrent in terms of an existential safeguard to prevent the United States from coercing China with the threat of a nuclear attack. China’s strategic modernization continues to be driven by a desire to possess the same military technologies as other technologically advanced nations, especially the United States. Although China is likely to increase the size and capability of its nuclear forces, Chinese leaders may continue to deploy these capabilities within the confines of a posture that emphasizes small numbers, low rates of alert, and a no-first-use doctrine. Whether Chinese leaders do so will, in large part, be determined by their own domestic dramas. But the United States can influence the outcome, in particular through political reassurances that the United States does not seek the capability to use nuclear weapons to coerce China. Chinese leaders continue to seek such assurances, as evidenced by the continuing interest in securing a bilateral no-first-use pledge from the United States. He Yafei, in the 2008 bilateral talks with Rood, again expressed China’s interest in having the United States pledge not to use nuclear weapons first against China. (China sought such an assurance in the 1990s, resulting in the so-called “non-targeting agreement” signed by President Bill Clinton and President Jiang Zemin.) Chinese leaders, in return, might propose additional transparency measures to assure the United States that China seeks only a minimal deterrent and will not attempt to move toward numerical parity with the United States as it continues to reduce the number of operationally deployed strategic nuclear warheads. This would contribute to what Chinese officials have called “mutual strategic trust.” There are those in the United States who would believe U.S. security is best maintained by acquiring the ability to negate China’s deterrent through technological superiority and to “dissuade” competition through overwhelming numerical advantage. An alternative view, however, is that keeping China’s modernization within the confines of minimum deterrence and a doctrine of no-first-use is manifestly in the interest of the United States and requires a political commitment that reflects the simple reality that no U.S. president is likely to attempt a disarming first strike against another nuclear-armed power. No matter which view one takes, China’s possession of the minimum means of reprisal—and how that deterrent evolves—is now the central issue for the future of both countries’ nuclear forces. At best, an effort by Washington to engage China more deeply on disarmament issues will require bureaucracies in both Washington and Beijing to more thoroughly consider the ramifi cations for stability of their respective strategic force modernizations. At the very least, opening such a dialogue can reduce the possibility of accidents, miscalculations, or misunderstandings.




==Heg K== 

===1nc Hegemony good K=== 


Critiquing American empire is dangerous whining. Embracing is a recipe for decreasing hegemony
Kagan 1998 – PhD, graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, adjunct history professor at Georgetown, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, Foreign Policy, “The benevolent empire”)

Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony and multipolarity may know they are playing a dangerous game, one that needs to be conducted with the utmost care, as French leaders did during the Cold War, lest the entire international system come crashing down around them. What they may not have adequately calculated, however, is the possibility that Americans will not respond as wisely as they generally did during the Cold War. Americans and their leaders should not take all this sophisticated whining about U.S. hegemony too seriously. They certainly should not take it more seriously than the whiners themselves do. But, of course, Americans are taking it seriously. In the United States these days, the lugubrious guilt trip of post-Vietnam liberalism is echoed even by conservatives, with William Buckley, Samuel Huntington, and James Schlesinger all decrying American "hubris," "arrogance," and "imperialism." Clinton administration officials, in between speeches exalting America as the "indispensable" nation, increasingly behave as if what is truly indispensable is the prior approval of China, France, and Russia for every military action. Moreover, at another level, there is a stirring of neo-isolationism in America today, a mood that nicely complements the view among many Europeans that America is meddling too much in everyone else's business and taking too little time to mind its own. The existence of the Soviet Union disciplined Americans and made them see that their enlightened self-interest lay in a relatively generous foreign policy. Today, that discipline is no longer present. In other words, foreign grumbling about American hegemony would be merely amusing, were it not for the very real possibility that too many Americans will forget —- even if most of the rest of the world does not —- just how important continued American dominance is to the preservation of a reasonable level of international security and prosperity. World leaders may want to keep this in mind when they pop the champagne corks in celebration of the next American humbling.

Vote them down because their speech-act jeopardizes the lives of our soldiers. Complaining undermines vital resolve which is key to winning
EYAGO 05 Political Commentary – Sound Politics Reporter [7/8, http://www.soundpolitics.com/archives/004721.html, Sound Commentary on Current Events in Seattle, Puget Sound and Washington State]

Finally, I am angry at those who undermine our efforts to conduct this war. I am angry at people, who through their words, and efforts contribute to the injury and death of our soldiers, who provide encouragement to the enemy, who weaken our efforts and prolong the war, who, for political gain put our soldiers, our people, and our nation at greater risk. There is a LOT of anger going on. Many times it is inappropriately acted upon. Islamists are angry, so they blow up people. Conservatives are angry so they advocate indiscriminate retaliation. Liberals are angry so they advocate undermining the war. All this anger is misdirected. We can see how the killing of innocents is wrong, but sometimes we cannot see how allowing innocents to be killed is wrong. One should seriously consider the impacts of certain types of dissention in this country before embarking on said dissentious course. I have many issues with the war in Iraq, but I will focus on just a couple. When President Bush pronounced to the world that he would defeat terrorism, he made a promise. He promised that he would not only pursue the terrorists wherever they may be, but he promised to go after the countries that enable those terrorists. When the UN made resolution after resolution against Iraq those too were promises. The difference comes in whether one follows up a promise or not. You see, no one embarks on a major undertaking with the expectation of losing. The choices any person or group are almost always predicated on the fact that the reward exceeds the price or risk. Hitler would not have invaded Czechoslovakia unless he thought he could get away with it. He would not have invaded Poland unless he though he could get away with it. The success of those events and reaction of Europe convinced him that he could press on and take all of Europe. Saddam would not have invaded Kuwait unless he thought he could get away with it. He would not have defied the UN unless he though he could get away with it. In those cases, the acting party decided that they could attain their goals using the methods employed. The same thing goes for the terrorists. They methods they employ are based on the expectation of ultimate success. The methods they employ are also based on their own capabilities, capabilities that stem from the support of governments both passive and active, the support of moneyed benefactors, and the support of powerful influencers such as media and high profile personalities. This brings me back to promises made. Part of the reason these terrorists became so bold is that there were few significant reprisals for their actions. In the same way Hitler moved on Poland and Hussein defied the UN, Al Qaeda flew planes into our buildings. Ultimately it was because they could and that the reprisals had insufficient deterrent effect. Now, when President Bush announced that he would pursue the nations that supported terrorism, he basically set the stage for action. The choice was, rattle the saber and hope it is enough, or draw the saber and demonstrate our commitment to living up to our promises. It is fair to debate whether Iraq was the best choice for an operation, but the stage had also been set there as well. With promises being made at the UN, the choice was to continue to prove that promises meant nothing or to prove that they did. I believe that the lack of consequences in the past was a key factor in the terrorist activity leading up to and including 9/11. Without the resolve to back up our promises, our enemies will be emboldened to act. It does not get any simpler than that. Iraq was a promise kept. Now, some people want us to renege on that promise and others. That is a dangerous position to be advocating. The thing is, the debate about Iraq belongs BEFORE we took action. And that debate DID occur. It occurred BEFORE the war. And the result was overwhelmingly in FAVOR of action. The congress granted President Bush the authority to act. The fact that they did not like his decision is moot. If they did not trust his ability to act, they were wrong to have given him the authority to do so. NOW they are wrong for challenging his decision after the fact. That brings us back to the concept of one's expectation of the results of one's actions. In many cases throughout history, the winner of a conflict was not always the one with the bigger army, the better equipment, and the best trained, or any of those factors. The winner quite often was the one with the greater will to win. Wars are won by will in far greater weight then in anything else. I would say that will is THE determining factor in success in any conflict. Obviously will is not enough. A greater force can sap the will of another army, but not always. The revolutionary war was won by will, not by military might. Vietnam was lost by will not by military might. And, Iraq will be won or lost by will alone. The consequences of this outcome will have long lasting impacts on the security of our nation. At this point, it does not matter whether we should have gone into Iraq. The fact is we are there now. We either complete the job and fulfill our promises to rebuild that nation and leave it with a stable and free society or we cut and run and have the world know with certainty that our word is null and void and that we have no resolve. That is the stakes. That is the goal of the terrorists: to prove they have resolve, to prove that we do not. Their victory will ensure increased attacks on all nations because the terrorists will have unimpeachable proof that their tactics will ultimately succeed. Bombings, beheadings, gross atrocities will be the weapons of choice in the future. Tactics that have been proven to bring down the mighty. If will is the factor that determines the outcome, then will is the place where we must consider here and now. As far as our enemy is concerned, we MUST make them believe that they cannot succeed. We MUST make them sure that WE will prevail. We MUST prove to them that their tactics are ineffectual. There is a down side to that. Once an enemy realizes their tactics are not succeeding, they will change them. With an enemy of this nature, that could result in greater atrocities than we have yet seen. Yet, even then we must prevail. We must continue to demonstrate OUR resolve and OUR willingness to see this to the end and DEFEAT them. Since they have shown little regard for decency and life, since they have shown that our very existence is provocation to them, no amount of diplomacy or concessions will achieve an end satisfactory to our nation. The only solution is the demonstration of our willingness to defeat them despite their tactics. Our goal is to defeat the will of the enemy. His goal is to defeat ours. Any indication that the enemy's will is faltering will bolster our own will. However, the opposite is true as well. Any indication that our will is faltering will embolden the enemy's will. Unfortunately, from the very first minute of this conflict, parts of our country have shouted from the very mountain tops just how little will they have to win the war. They demonstrate clearly for our enemies that we don't want to fight. They give clear indication that enemy tactics are successful. In effect, they give aid and comfort to the enemy and spur them on to continued fighting because they tell the enemy in clear messages that if they continue in their tactics, the United States will be defeated. As I said before, the debate about whether we go to war is over. We are now at war, and the ONLY debate we should have is on what tactics are most appropriate for prosecuting that war. It is marginally fair to state that you are unhappy about our decision to go to war, but beyond that, anything else will embolden the enemy. Think very long and about what is at stake here. It is almost IMPOSSIBLE to be pro America while actively dissenting on ongoing conflict. It is bordering on treason for a public official to undermine the war effort, the Commander in Chief and the military publicly for all the world to see. We have started down this path, and there are but two choices: to win or to lose. There is no "suing for peace" with this enemy. Now, that does not mean you have to become militaristic and be a war monger. You can be a peacenik, but you need to consider that unless you want to see the United States harmed, you should cease criticism of the war itself until after it is won. There is plenty of time to castigate the people who made what you perceive as errors AFTER we have finished the job. However, if you persist in presenting disunity and a weakened resolve to the enemy, you take direct responsibility for the lives of all Americans, Iraqis and foreign terrorists that will die subsequently. The quickest way to end the war is to be united, to demonstrate unshakable resolve, and to have the enemy surrender. Or, YOU can surrender to the enemy. Anything else will just prolong the killing. This goes infinitely more so for our public leaders. What they do for political gain is completely unconscionable.

Threats are inevitable. Retreat from primacy magnifies every international problem and escalates conflict
Thayer 2006 – PhD, professor of security studies at Missouri State, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Bradley, The National Interest, “In defense of primacy”)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak-ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive influence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A.Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol-lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo-bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. Fourth and finally, the United States, in seeking primacy, has been willing to use its power not only to advance its interests but to promote the welfare of people all over the globe. The United States is the earth's leading source of positive exter¬nalities for the world. The U.S. military has participated in over fifty operations since the end of the Cold War and most of those missions have been humanitarian in nature. Indeed, the U.S. military is the earth's "911 force" it serves, de facto, as the world's police, the global paramedic and the planet's fire department. When¬ever there is a natural disaster, earth¬quake, flood, drought, volcanic eruption, typhoon or tsunami, the United States assists the countries in need. On the day after Christmas in 2004, a tremendous earthquake and tsunami occurred in the Indian Ocean near Sumatra, killing some 300,000 people. The United States was the first to respond with aid. Washing¬ton followed up with a large contribu¬tion of aid and deployed the U.S. military to South and Southeast Asia for many months to help with the aftermath of the disaster. About 20,000 U.S. soldiers, sail¬ors, airmen and marines responded by providing water, food, medical aid, disease treatment and prevention as well as foren¬sic assistance to help identify the bodies of those killed. Only the U.S. military could have accomplished this Herculean effort. No other force possesses the communica¬tions capabilities or global logistical reach of the U.S. military. In fact, UN peace¬keeping operations depend on the United States to supply UN forces. American generosity has done more to help the United States fight the War on Terror than almost any other measure. Before the tsunami, 80 percent of Indo¬nesian public opinion was opposed to the United States; after it, 80 percent had a favorable opinion of America. Two years after the disaster, and in poll after poll, Indonesians still have overwhelmingly positive views of the United States. In October 2005, an enormous earthquake struck Kashmir, killing about 74,000 peo¬ple and leaving three million homeless. The U.S. military responded immediate¬ly, diverting helicopters fighting the War on Terror in nearby Afghanistan to bring relief as soon as possible. To help those ill need, the United States also provided fi¬nancial aid to Pakistan; and, as one might expect from those witnessing the munifi¬cence of the United States, it left a last¬ing impression about America. For the first time since 9/11, polls of Pakistani opinion have found that more people are favorable toward the United States than unfavorable, while support for Al Qaeda dropped to its lowest level. Whether in Indonesia or Kashmir, the money was well spent because it helped people in the wake of disasters, but it also had a real impact on the War on Terror. When people in the Muslim world witness the U.S. military conducting a humanitarian mission, there is a clearly positive impact on Muslim opinion of the United States. As the War on Terror is a war of ideas and opinion as much as military action, for the United States humanitarian mis¬sions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.

Alternative: reject the affirmative as a signal of commitment to imperial resolve. We need to actively support hegemony in academic forums
Mearsheimer 1995 Professor of Political Science and the co-director of the Program on International Security Policy at the University of Chicago. West Point graduate, retired Air Force officer (John, Professor Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Summer, p. 93)

The discussion of institutions up to now has a distinct academic flavor. However, the debate over whether institutions cause peace is not just a dispute about international relations theory; it also has significant real-world consequences. For example, the Clinton administration and many European policymakers publicly maintain that states should not worry about the balance of power – that is “old thinking,” they say – but should instead rely on institutions to protect them. This perspective makes sense only if there is evidence that institutions can get the job done. But so far, the evidence indicates that institutions do not provide a sound basis for building a stable post-Cold War world. Institutions failed to prevent or shut down the recent wars in Bosnia and Transcaucasia, and failed to stop the carnage in Rwanda; there is little reason to think that those same institutions would do better in the next trouble spot. The bottom line on institutions seems clear: despite all the rhetoric about their virtues, there is little evidence that they can alter state behavior and cause peace. States temporarily led astray by the false promise of institutional rhetoric eventually come to their senses and start worrying about the balance of power. Surely Bosnian policymakers now recognize their mistake in trusting institutions like the UN and the EC to pull their chestnuts out of the fir. In the meantime, however, a state that ignores the balance of power can suffer enormous damage. Thus, it would seem to make sense, from both a moral and a strategic perspective, for institutionalists to tone down their claims about the peace-causing effects of institutions until they have solid evidence to support their positions

===2nc Threat construction good=== 

Threat construction is good – it allows us to anticipate and prevent danger 
Berke 98 - Joseph Berke, Found. And Dir. Arbours Crisis Centre, 1998, Even Paranoids Have Enemies, p. 5-6 

Internal and external persecution come together in the theoretical model of ‘the paranoid process’ – a set of developmental and defensive mechanisms which serve to delineate the individual’s inner psychic world and his experience of his emerging self, while, at the same time, contributing to the shaping of his sense of significant objects in his experiential world (Meissner 1986). One of this model’s core components, ‘the paranoid construction’ refers to a cognitive reorganization taking place in an attempt to sustain a comfortable sense of self which, however, may be at the expense of reality testing. This process, in its extreme form, leads to the formation of a persecutory bond, where a link is established between, on the one hand, the paranoid individual and, on the other, his persecutors and the terrifying forces that threaten to engulf him. This can become a rigid construction that reinforces the spiral of paranoia-persecution-paranoia. Meissner understands this mechanism as offering a sense of cohesion and durability to a fragile self, though it often involves a high degree of pathology and victimization. Instances of this process abound in individuals, institutions, and groups (including whole nations) where views of internal and external situations are (ab)used to service a brittle sense of identity. Fully recognizing this predicament, and the dangers involved, requires thinking about and tolerating our own conflictual parts. Paradoxically, a certain degree of paranoia is desirable as it is a basis for discrimination (Segal 1994); when we let a new experience touch us, we acknowledge that it may be bad or good, which enables us to anticipate danger. In leaders of an organization, for instance, a certain degree of paranoid potential can be a useful resource, as opposed to a dangerous naivety that would prevent the leader from becoming aware of the situations of activation of aggression in the group, or regression to primitive levels of functioning. Where the leader can be aware of, and apprehend risk and danger, there is the possibility of preparation for the group to face them and cope with them. 

Self-fulfilling prophecy is backwards – failure to express our fears causes them to occur 
Macy 95- Joanna Macy, General Systems Scholar and Deep Ecologist, 1995, Ecopsychology 

There is also the superstition that negative thoughts are self-fulfilling. This is of a piece with the notion, popular in New Age circles, that we create our own reality I have had people tell me that “to speak of catastrophe will just make it more likely to happen.” Actually, the contrary is nearer to the truth. Psychoanalytic theory and personal experience show us that it is precisely what we repress that eludes our conscious control and tends to erupt into behavior. As Carl Jung observed, “When an inner situation is not made conscious, it happens outside as fate.” But ironically, in our current situation, the person who gives warning of a likely ecological holocaust is often made to feel guilty of contributing to that very fate. 

Confronting threats early prevents escalation—WWII proves. 
Yoon 03 – Professor of International Relations at Seoul National University; former Foreign Minister of South Korea (Young-Kwan, “Introduction: Power Cycle Theory and the Practice of International Relations”, International Political Science Review 2003; vol. 24; p. 7-8)

In history, the effort to balance power quite often tended to start too late to protect the security of some of the individual states. If the balancing process begins too late, the resulting amount of force necessary to stop an aggressor is often much larger than if the process had been started much earlier. For example, the fate of Czechoslovakia and Poland showed how non-intervention or waiting for the “automatic” working through of the process turned out to be problematic. Power cycle theory could also supplement the structure-oriented nature of the traditional balance of power theory by incorporating an agent-oriented explanation. This was possible through its focus on the relationship between power and the role of a state in the international system. It especially highlighted the fact that a discrepancy between the relative power of a state and its role in the system would result in a greater possibility for systemic instability. In order to prevent this instability from developing into a war, practitioners of international relations were to become aware of the dynamics of changing power and role, adjusting role to power. A statesperson here was not simply regarded as a prisoner of structure and therefore as an outsider to the process but as an agent capable of influencing the operation of equilibrium. Thus power cycle theory could overcome the weakness of theoretical determinism associated with the traditional balance of power. The question is often raised whether government decision-makers could possibly know or respond to such relative power shifts in the real world. According to Doran, when the “tides of history” shift against the state, the push and shove of world politics reveals these matters to the policy-maker, in that state and among its competitors, with abundant urgency. (2) The Issue of Systemic Stability Power cycle theory is built on the conception of changing relative capabilities of a state, and as such it shares the realist assumption emphasizing the importance of power in explaining international relations. But its main focus is on the longitudinal dimension of power relations, the rise and decline of relative state power and role, and not on the static power distribution at a particular time. As a result, power cycle theory provides a significantly different explanation for stability and order within the international system. First of all, power cycle theory argues that what matters most in explaining the stability of the international system or war and peace is not the type of particular international system (Rosecrance, 1963) but the transformation from one system to another. For example, in the 1960s there was a debate on the stability of the international system between the defenders of bipolarity such as Waltz (1964) and the defenders of multi-polarity such as Rosecrance (1966), and Deutsch and Singer (1964). After analyzing five historical occasions since the origin of the modern state system, Doran concluded that what has been responsible for major war was not whether one type of system is more or less conducive to war but that instead systems transformation itself led to war (Doran, 1971). A non-linear type of structural change that is massive, unpredicted, devastating to foreign policy expectation, and destructive of security is the trigger for major war, not the nature of a particular type of international system. 

The security dilemma doesn’t apply to situations where states pose genuine threats
Schweller, 96 (Randall, professor of political science at Ohio State, Security Studies, Spring, p. 117-118)

The crucial point is that the security dilemma is always apparent, not real. If states are arming for something other than security; that is, if aggressors do in fact exist, then it is no longer a security dilemma but rather an example of a state or a coalition mobilizing for the purpose of expansion and the targets of that aggression responding and forming alliances to defend themselves. Indeed, Glenn Snyder makes this very important point (disclaimer?) in his discussion of the security dilemma and alliance politics: “Uncertainty about the aims of others is inherent in structural anarchy. If a state clearly reveals itself as an expansionist, however, the alliance that forms against it is not self defeating as in the prisoners’ dilemma (security dilemma) model” 89 That is, if an expansionist state exists, there is no security dilemma/spiral model effect. Moreover, if all states are relatively sure that none seeks expansion, then the security dilemma similarly fades away. It is only the misplaced fear that others harbor aggressive designs that drive the security dilemma. 

Most wars are caused by deliberate threats, not spiraling insecurities
Schweller, 96 (Randall, professor of political science at Ohio State, Security Studies, Spring, p. 120)

War is almost always intended by someone. Throughout history it has been decided upon in cold blood not for reasons of self-preservation but for the purpose of greedy expansion at the expense of others’ security, prestige, and power. “What was so often unintentional about war,” Blainey points out, “was not the decision to fight but the outcome of the fighting.” 98

Turn – War preparation deters aggression, the kritik prevents these efforts
Luttwak 97- Edward Luttwak, Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic and International Studies, BOSTON REVIEW, October 1997, p.11. 

More generally, war-preparation by those actually willing to fight (not just ritualistic preparations, as is mostly the case in advanced countries nowadays) may avert war by dissuading others' hopes of easy victories -- even Bosnia might have done it, had it raised a good army before declaring independence -- whereas wishing for peace, marching for peace, etc., is as relevant as wishing and marching for good weather -- except if it interferes with concrete war-preparations, when it may be counterproductive.

Aggressive states, not security concerns, are the root of conflict
Kydd 97- Andrew Kydd, Professor of Political Science, University of California, Riverside, SECURITY STUDIES, Autumn 1997, p.154. 

In the case of the cold war, it is again difficult to escape the conclusion that the Soviet Union was indeed expansionist before Gorbachev and not solely motivated by security concerns. The increased emphasis within international relations scholarship on explaining the nature and origins of aggressive expansionist states reflects a growing consensus that aggressive states are at the root of conflict, not security concerns.

Social science proves—unipolarity dampens natural tendency to seek status
Wohlforth, 09 – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)

The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are indeterminate and that a power shift resulting in a return to bipolarity or multipolarity will not raise the specter of great power war. This article questions the consensus on two counts. First, I show that it depends crucially on a dubious assumption about human motivation. Prominent theories of war are based on the assumption that people are mainly motivated by the instrumental pursuit of tangible ends such as physical security and material prosperity. This is why such theories seem irrelevant to interactions among great powers in an international environment that diminishes the utility of war for the pursuit of such ends. Yet we know that people are motivated by a great many noninstrumental motives, not least by concerns regarding their social status. 3 As John Harsanyi noted, “Apart from economic payoffs, social status (social rank) seems to be the most important incentive and motivating force of social behavior.”4 This proposition rests on much firmer scientific ground now than when Harsanyi expressed it a generation ago, as cumulating research shows that humans appear to be hardwired for sensitivity to status and that relative standing is a powerful and independent motivator of behavior.5 [End Page 29] 
Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent of the distribution of capabilities. If the status of states depends in some measure on their relative capabilities, and if states derive utility from status, then different distributions of capabilities may affect levels of satisfaction, just as different income distributions may affect levels of status competition in domestic settings. 6 Building on research in psychology and sociology, I argue that even capabilities distributions among major powers foster ambiguous status hierarchies, which generate more dissatisfaction and clashes over the status quo. And the more stratified the distribution of capabilities, the less likely such status competition is. 
Unipolarity thus generates far fewer incentives than either bipolarity or multipolarity for direct great power positional competition over status. Elites in the other major powers continue to prefer higher status, but in a unipolar system they face comparatively weak incentives to translate that preference into costly action. And the absence of such incentives matters because social status is a positional good—something whose value depends on how much one has in relation to others.7 “If everyone has high status,” Randall Schweller notes, “no one does.”8 While one actor might increase its status, all cannot simultaneously do so. High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]