[[toc]]
=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; color: #000000; display: block; font-size: 20px; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px; text-align: center;">**September-October**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> INDIA/PAKISTAN PLAN AC </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "But the human...or go forward."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This question brings...to have it?"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The fact that...as an individual."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Treating people as ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In South Asia...restriction on India."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "What is morally...kind of case."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "What is also...about to do."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A) Accidental Launch is likely.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In addition to...strike from India."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "As noted earlier...to the aggressor."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even a limited...a global scale."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "in terms of...might be used."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Last week's brutal...global security concerns."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">V: Morality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">The only way moral claims trump coercive forms of action coordination is by employing justifications amenable to the perspectives of everyone subject to the relevant norm.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Jurgen Habermas, The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press, p. 4</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"sociologically speaking, moral...promise of rewards."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Moral statements are only valid if they are prescriptive and universizable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Richard M. Hare 1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"The rules of...become an ought."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Preference satisfaction is the only system that is consistent with the need to universalize and create prescriptions. If one is to prescribe actions that would be endorsed from the perspectives of all persons then one must maximize preferences. The nature of the utilitarian framework is less important than the fact that it must be an ends-based caluculus.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Richard M. Hare 1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">S: Net Benefits</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">ADVANTAGE ONE IS NUCLEAR WAR:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">A) Accidental Launch is likely.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"In addition to...strike from India."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Scott D. Sagan—April 2004. [Professor of Political Science, co-director of Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation, and a Senior Fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute. Serves as the co-chair of the American Academy of Arts and Science's Global Nuclear Future Initiative]. Nuclear Dangers in South Asia. Forum on Physics and Society</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"From an organizational...or actual attack."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Benjamin Friedman—18 June 2002. [Research Assistant at The Center For Defense Information. Ph.D in Political Science, M.I.T. Research Fellow in Defense and Homeland Security Studies, Cato Institute]. India and Pakistan: War in The Nuclear Shadow? Nuclear Issues. Center For Defense Information.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"Unlike the United States..of nuclear war."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"Even a limited...a global scale."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">ADVANTAGE TWO IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Matthew Waine—28 September 2010. [Irish Socialist Party county councillor in Fingal County]. Pakistan in Crisis: Poor Suffer Most As Millions Hit By Disaster. Socialist Party.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"But it is...and eventually breakup."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">David S. Sentell—April 2010. [Major, U.S. Army. Professor at U.S. Army School of Advanced Military Studies at the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College]. On The Brink: Instability and the Prospect of State Failure in Pakistan.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">The growing specter...U.S. Military Intervention."</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed. Extinction!” Al- Ahram 26 August - 1 September 2004 Issue No. 705.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>,</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">a political analyst for the 'Al-Ahram' newspaper</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">"A nuclear attack...all be losers."</span>**

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**AGENCY AC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Section 1:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Debate must be founded on individual moral analysis rather than policy making about what the government should do. The traditional conception of fiat encourages increased distance from the political sphere and decreases our ability to engage ourselves in politics and activism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] Gordon Mitchell. 1998. [Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the Willian Pitt Debating Union at University of Pittsburgh.] “Reflexive Fiat: Incorporating the Outward Activist Turn into Contest Strategy.” The Rostrum 72. January 1998.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Advocacy under this...academic debate process."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Separating the debate forum from real life through a policymaking framework prevents debaters from experiencing real-world events. Mitchell [Cited Above]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "while an isolated...of political life."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Section 2:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Individual morality constrains action through self-sanctioning based on moral standards that must be internalized. In constructing morality we must avoid dissociation in order to ensure that the interalization of norms is a positive force. Rationalizing evil actions through justification, euphemism, and self-distancing from events and political actors enable this dissociation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zimbardo, Philip. The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil. Random House, 1st Edition. March 27, 2007.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The model begins...fellow human beings."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This dissociation is especially dangerous in the modern military context in which death and destruction are becoming progressively more and more faceless.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Albert Bandura. [Professor of Psychology at Stanford University.] 1996. “Moral Disengagement in the Perpetration of Inhumanities.”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.american-buddha.com/psych.moraldisengagementbandura.htm]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "It is easier...death and destruction."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Preventing Dissociation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Section 3:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The presence of nuclear weapons causes persons to think about, react to, discuss, and understand the death and destruction of nuclear weapons in intolerable ways. When we believe that we can control nuclear weapons, we become comfortable with their presence. The more we are surrounded by them and the less we resist them, the more dissociated we become from their human impact. The domestication of nuclear weapons permeates nuclear discourse. In the inevitable attempt to tame nuclear weapons, we make it impossible to forge individual connections to them.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Carol Cohn, Bulletin of Atomic Sciences, June 1987.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nuclear weapons are...has become god."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This dissociation and mirage of nuclear mastery is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Robert Lifton, professor of psychiatry and psychology at the Graduate School University Center, and Erik Markusen, professor at South State University, The Genocidal Mentality, 1990, p. 215</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Carol Cohn was...exposure of it."</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**SECURITY DILEMNA NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "But let us...for disarmament research."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "War accounts for..of our civilization."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">AFFIRMATIVE MUST DISARM IN ONE COUNTRY - THEORY</span>=== 

A) INTERPRETATION: The aff must defend nuclear disarmament by one nation.

B) VIOLATION

C) STANDARDS

1) Real World Decision Making.
L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University] "The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making". Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.
"The way in... for decision making."

2) Depth

D) VOTER

Education
L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University] "The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making". Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.
"Why debate? some... to make decision."

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">AFFIRMATIVE MUST DEFEND DISARMAMENT - THEORY</span>=== 

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">A) INTERPRETATION: The affirmative must defend the process of nuclear disarmament.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">B) VIOLATION</span>**


**<span style="font-weight: normal;">C) STANDARDS</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">1) Link Ground</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">2) Real World Decision Making</span>**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Lautenschläger, Karl. (1985). "Controlling Military Technology" Ethics 95.3, pg. 692.</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> "Moral commitment to...in that direction."</span>

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">3) Stable Ground</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">D) VOTER</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">1) Fairness</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">2) Education</span>**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University] "The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making". Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Why debate? some... to make decision."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">AFFIRMATIVE MUST DEFEND ONLY ONE COUNTRY</span>=== 
A) INTERPRETATION: The affirmative must defend nuclear disarmament in one country

B) VIOLATION
C) STANDARDS


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1) Real World Decision Making.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University] "The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making". Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The way in... for decision making."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 2) Permutations and Combinations</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) VOTER</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="font-weight: normal;">1) Fairness</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="font-weight: normal;">2) Education</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> L. Paul Strait [George Mason University] and Brett Wallace [George Washington University] "The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making". Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Why debate? some... to make decision."</span>




===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">RECIPROCITY - THEORY</span>=== 
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">A) INTERPRETATION: Debaters may not run theory, lose that theory, and still win the round.</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">B) VIOLATION</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">C) STANDARDS</span>**

1) Reciprocity

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Doug Sigel [Former Northwestern Debater and Coach]. The Punishment Theory: Illegitimate Styles and Theories as Voting Issues. Journal of The American Forensics Association. 1984. http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/DRGArtiarticlesIndex.htm.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "One fear that...the same peril."</span>

2) Competing Interpretations


D) IMPACT
Fairness

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">PALS - CP</span>=== 
A) TEXT: All nuclear weapons will be equipped with Permissive Active Link technology
<span style="font-family: Times;">Steven M. Bellovin,</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/nsam-160/pal.html]]</span>, <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">02 Sep 09, Professor Columbia University, Department of Computer Science.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> "A PAL -- a...a nuclear weapon"</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> B) COMPETITION</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> C) SOLVENCY</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Pals prevent nuclear weapon theft. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Steven M. Bellovin,</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/nsam-160/pal.html]]</span>, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">02 Sep 09, Professor Columbia University, Department of Computer Science. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">"There are two...knowing the code."</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Pals prevent accidental launch. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Steven M. Bellovin,</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/nsam-160/pal.html]]</span>, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">02 Sep 09, Professor Columbia University, Department of Computer Science. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">"Several different mechanisms...a risk,too."</span>

=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; color: #000000; display: block; font-size: 20px; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px; text-align: center;">**November-December**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1AC NEEDLES</span>=== 
V: Morality

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity</span>
Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810.
"We must not...to save many."



OBSERVATION 1: The harms

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12pt;">David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. T</span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">he Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Injecting drug users...in HIV prevention.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 24px;">The risks to the population are growing rapidly. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov—December 2001. </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The Effectiveness of Needle Exchange Programs: A Review of the Science and Policy. AIDS Science, Vol. 1, No. 16.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> "multi-person use of...epidemic takes hold"</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Total HIV/AIDS deaths and mortality rates in injection drug users are high. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anna Grigoryan, H. Irene Durant, Tonji Durant, and Xiangming Wei—13 February 2009. </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Late HIV Diagnosis and Determinants of Progression to AIDS or Death after HIV Diagnosis among Injection Drug Users, 33 US States, 1996–2004. PLoS ONE, Vol. 4, No. 2.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> "In the united states..to 20 years."</span>


Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20


Statistics taken from tables: 2008 - 4000 HIV diagnosis, 6000 AIDS diagnosis
3000 deaths since 2005

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> "In the United...of HCV acquisition."</span>

OBSERVATION 2: THE PLAN
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006 After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.
"The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."



OBSERVATION 3: Solvency

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS.</span>
Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.

"The above findings...has been fulfilled."

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hypothesized </span><span style="color: #151518; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>



<span class="CARDS"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. </span></span>

Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.
"Reflecting on this...of our communities."



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1AC NEEDLES - UPDATED</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "SEP's have been...infected with HIV."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--GLENBROOKS UPDATES </span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even if people would will a deontological maxim, universalizability would require a consequentialism of rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS THE HARMS:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> n the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding and subsidies for public and private needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession and acquisition of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange facilities. Sterile needles and injection equipment will be exchanged for used and dirty needles in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>



== == 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">DRUG COURTS COUNTER-PLAN</span>=== 
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">A) TEXT:</span>** Criminal justice systems will implement drug courts for drug offenders, modeling those created in Miami Dade County Florida in 1989 with standards established by the federal drug courts program office.

B) COMPETITION

Drug courts use the criminal justice system.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Redonna K. Chandler, PhD,1 Bennett W. Fletcher, PhD,1 and Nora D. Volkow, MD2, Journal of the American Medical association. “Treating Drug Abuse and Addiction in the Criminal Justice System: Improving Public Health and Safety”, 1Services Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2681083/]]</span> JAMA. 2009; 301: 183-190.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "research over the...remain in treatment."</span>

C) SOLVENCY
Drug courts decrease drug use amongst the arrested, reduce crime rates as a result of rehabilitation.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. West Huddleston, III Douglas B. Marlowe, J.D., Ph.D. Rachel Casebolt</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem-Solving Court Programs in the United States,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> May 2008, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/pdf/12902_PCP_fnl.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In February of...time of arrest."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">AFFIRMATIVE MUST HAVE AN ADVOCACY</span>=== 

A) INTERPRETATION: <span style="font-family: Calibri;">The affirmative must defend a specific policy proposal that treats the abuse of illegal substances as a matter of public health not of criminal justice. The advocacy must specify the actor, policy, regulatory mechanisms, and implementation methods and be backed by a solvency advocate with an advanced degree in a relevant scholarly field.</span>

B) VIOLATION

C) STANDARDS

1) Stable Advocacy
Affirmative plans are good.
Michael Greenstein—No Date. [Fmr. Director of Debate at Georgetown. Current Director of Debate at Glenbrooks North High School]. What Should Debate Be About. The Rostrum. 35.
"This framework for...the entire debate."

2) Ground

3) Clash
Public health necessitates contextualization
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[</span></span>Fabrizio, Turoldo. "Responsibility as an Ethical Framework for Public Health Interventions" American Journal of Public Health 99.7 (2009), 1197-1202.

"The concept of...of acting well."


===<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 23px;">START DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass by the end of the year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc141194457]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As President …over national security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. Obama’s capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Unfortunately, the polarizing …votes is not a given.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Without political capital, opposition can’t be solved and START will never pass.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hurlburt 10 (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Jonathan Cohn falls …they are not."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**START DA- UPDATES**</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Max Bergmann—4 November 2010. [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Despite popular perception...a likely yes."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. It’s going to take a powerful and focused effort by Obama to ensure that New START gets through</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Travis Sharp—28 August 2009. [Military Analyst at The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation]. Local Priorities vs. National Interests in Arms Control. Bulletin of The Atomic Scientists.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "While beliefs about..the White House."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> DRUG COURTS NC </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The burden of the affirmative is to defend a policy concerning illegal drug abuse that is methodologically informed by a public health ethics approach. What distinguishes public health ethics is its emphasis on populations instead of individuals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] Christian Munthe—2008. [Department of Philosophy, Go ̈ teborg University, Sweeden]. The Goals of Public Health: An Integrated, Multidimensional Model. ublic Health Ethics, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 39-52.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Several of these...at a population level."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> V: Morality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing Suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> -Morality is an abstract guide to how we ought to act and interact. However, this abstraction only has social force through the criminal justice system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that the use of Drug Courts in the criminal justice system is the optimal legal structure.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Drug courts decrease drug use, reduce crime rates, and prevent recidivism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] C. West Huddleston, III, Douglas B. Marlowe, J.D. and Rachel Casebolt, Ph.D.—May 2008. [Huddleston is The Chief Executive Officer of the National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP) and the Executive Officer of the National Drug Court Institute. Marlowe is the Chief of Research, Law and Policy at NADCP. Formerly, she served as the Director of Law & Ethics Research at the Treatment Research Institute (TRI), and as Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. Dr. Marlowe has been extensively published with over 100 books and journal articles to date.]. Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem-Solving Court Programs in the United States.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In February of...& Cox 2007). </span>





=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; color: #000000; display: block; font-size: 20px; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px; text-align: center;"> January-February </span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
=== === 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> DUE PROCESS AC </span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">OBS 1:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Definition of charge:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"To make an...in the indictment"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Value: Justice</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">VC: maintaining consistency with the law</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Although the right...from public scrutiny."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"forty years after...in resources remain."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"By most accounts...to receive services."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Perhaps the most...look as follows."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Juries AC**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Value: Justice</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">VC: maintaining consistency with the constitution</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. Legitimacy of legal system must come from political discourse, not moral philosophy</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The same reason...on moral discourse"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Must recognize procedural obligations of various actors. It is the supreme court's duty to strike down laws inconsistent with the constitution</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Marbury v. Madison</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, 5 U.S. 137 (), 1 Cranch 137, p. 175-177. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. The rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy because protection of autonomy empowers legal subjects to use public autonomy in democratic process, which legitimizes the law</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; line-height: 19px;"> "However well grounded...over its counterpart"</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The constitution thus constructs the medium of law itself. And, the supreme court is structurally responsible for upholding the obligation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3. Using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">THUS, THE PLAN:</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">The U.S. Supreme Court will overturn its decision in </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">McKeiver v. Pennsylvania</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">as as it applies to those tried with violent felonies on the grounds that the 6th and 14th amendments to the U.S. Constitution guarantee the right to trial by jury for those juveniles. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">CONTENTION ONE: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The McKeiver decision assigned constitutional rights based on arbitrary classifications of age, and the distinctino of juvenile trials as civil while adult trials as criminal is misguided because:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">a. supreme court precedent indicates there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [<span style="color: #151515;">J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].</span>Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. <span style="color: #151515;">Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span></span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(b) </span>**<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: Calibri;">Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [<span style="color: #151515;">J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].</span>Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. <span style="color: #151515;">Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: Calibri;"> "<span style="font-weight: normal;">state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"</span></span>**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(c) </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4>. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">"since the 1980's...criminal history score"</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in //Duncan vs. Louisiana// are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [<span style="color: #151515;">J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].</span>Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. <span style="color: #151515;">Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #151515; font-family: Calibri;">"The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">CONTENTION TWO: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Trial by jury is required by the ‘fundamental fairness’ test for the 14th amendment. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Even the majority opinion in //McKeiver// concedes that the appropriate standard for determining what procedures are required for juveniles by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment is “fundamental fairness.”</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">McKeiver v. Pennsylvania</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, 403 U.S. 528 (1971), p. 543. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">"All the litigants..are not inflexible"</span></span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Trial by jury is the only way to protect the fundamental fairness of criminal proceedings.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">1.</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">the ability to choose a jury checks back for bias in a way that doesn’t exist with judges. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #171657; font-family: Calibri;">The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090) [Article is from “The Future of Children” <span style="color: #414141;">A Collaboration of <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #414141; font-family: Calibri;">"in addition the...a bench trial"</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #414141; font-family: Calibri;">2.</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">judge trials hurt defendants chances to appeal.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #171657; font-family: Calibri;">The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090) [Article is from “The Future of Children” <span style="color: #414141;">A Collaboration of <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">"Denial of the...law on appeal"</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;">3. <span style="font-family: Calibri;">The possibility of a jury trial improves the fairness of the charging decision and checks the power imbalance in plea negotiations.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-weight: normal;"> Janet E. Ainsworth [Professor, Seattle University School of Law]. “Youth Justice in a Unified Court: Response to Critics of Juvenile Court Abolition.” 1995. Boston College Law Review. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. P. 943 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-weight: normal;"> "Nor can the...possesses as leverage."</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===<span style="line-height: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">JURIES - TOC UPDATES</span></span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:

Ought is duty.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">“ought.” The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. 2005. Oxford University Press.

V: Government Obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Government must follow constitutional legal norms.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, legal norms are exclusively constitutive of government agency. Government is a socially constructed proxy for the agency of its constituents; it only “acts” in the sense that it manifests the legal norms generated by democratic deliberation.</span>

Second, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">only a system of legally institutionalized norms can underpin a functional social structure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 12px;">Jurgen Habermas—1996. [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.]. Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy. Translated by William Rehg. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, pp. 114</span>
"<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">The move from...subject is unburdened."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, only legal norms derive from the kind of procedural rationality necessary to legitimize norms in an irreducibly pluralistic society.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jurgen Habermas—1 October 1986. [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.]. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Law and Morality. Translated by Kenneth Baynes. The Tanner Lectures on Human Virtues. Delivered at Harvard University, pp. 245.</span>

S: Maintaining Consistency With The Constitution</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**OBSERVATION TWO IS THE ADVOCACY:**

In //Duncan v. Louisiana//, the Supreme Court held that defendants charged with non-petty offenses must be afforded the right to a trial by jury under the 6th and 14th Amendments. However, in //McKeiver v. Pennsylvania// the Court departed from this rule by creating an exception for defendants tried in juvenile courts.

**THUS, THE PLAN:** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">THE UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT WILL OVERTURN ITS DECISION IN </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">MCKEIVER V. PENNSYLVANIA </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">AS IT APPLIES TO TOPICALLY DESIGNATED PERSONS ON THE GROUNDS THAT THE 6TH AND 14TH AMENDMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION GUARANTEE THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY TO THOSE DEFENDANTS. I RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.</span> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CONTENTION ONE:** The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(a) </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Close examination of Supreme Court precedent indicates that there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts. </span>
Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.
"supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"


b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.
Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.

"state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"




c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span></span>>.

"since the 1980's...criminal history score"


Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.
Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.

"The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">overturning //McKeiver// is most consistent with precedent.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Kerrin C. Wolf—2003. [QUALS]. Justice by Any Other Name: The Right to a Jury Trial and the Criminal Nature of Juvenile Justice in Louisiana, 12 Wm. & Mary Bill of Rts. J. 275.</span> "The Juvenile justice...a majority opinion."
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stare Decisis</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> is not absolute.
Sixth amendment violations precede all arguments about the desirability or fairness of jury trials. </span></span>


===REHAB AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only by attempting to rectify inequalities and political conditions that contribute to societal ills, can the government uphold justice. The freedom of agents is only relevant if the state acts to fairly guarantee and respect that freedom.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Judith Shklar—1984. [Political Theorist and John Cowles Professor of Government at Harvard University]. The Liberalism of Fear. Ordinary Vices. Harvard University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nevertheless, there is...one at that."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Retributive philosophy masks the social, economic, and political underpinnings of crime. Holding individuals exclusively accountable and blameworthy for their offenses prevents adequate reparation of the injustices that fuel criminal behavior.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeffrey Reiman. “A Radical Perspective on Crime.” Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This is the...criminality or injustice."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instead, government should take responsibility for the social conditions that it has allowed and the role it has played in creating those conditions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barbra Hudson—2003. [Professor of Law, Director of Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice at Lancashire Law School, University of Central Lancashire]. Understanding justice: an introduction to ideas, perspectives, and controversies in modern penal theory. McGraw Hill International.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Cullen and Gilbert...a specific case."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Redressing Social Disempowerment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> THUS, THE ADVOCACY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In the United States, all adults along with juveniles charged with violent felonies should be tried and treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitative treatment in the form of cognitive behavioral and multisystemic therapies. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rehabilitation in the form of cognitive behavioral programs involve several strategies to address criminal behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The most common...therapist-patient relationship."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention One: Rehabilitation with CBT and MST is the only model of treatment that can accurately account for and respect both the decisions of offenders and the societal foundations of crime.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the criminal justice system does not engage in sufficient rehabilitation. It is punitive for both juveniles and adults.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "b. State Juvenile Courts...and adversarial proceeding."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, Denial of rehabilitation disregards the worth of criminals and leaves criminals worse off than when they entered prison. Only rehabilitation can reintegrate offenders into society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Edgardo Rotman—1986. [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires]. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 77, No. 4, pp. 1023-1068.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The humanistic model...socially-deprived offender."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention Two: CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even if interventions...the interventions "doubles."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These results have been consistently replicated for juvenile offenders as well.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mark W. Lipsey—2009. [Peabody Research Institute, Vanderbilt University]. The Primary Factors that Characterize Effective Interventions with Juvenile Offenders: A Meta-Analytic Overview. Victims and Offenders. Vol. 4, pp. 124-147.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The apparent effectiveness...effects on recidivism."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "there are, however...interventions they initiate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year. Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade.</span>

Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427. JS.




The direct harm of recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.


"The effects of...cannot be understood."



Moreover, the paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve.
Jeff Ferrell—1998. [Department of Criminal Justice, Northern Arizona University]. Against the Law: Anarchist Criminology. Social Anarchism, No. 25.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"As the interactionist/labeling...falsely, to solve."</span>



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Recidivism NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I ask the...as a burden."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Studies have found...the short run."</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"experts have identified...and community reintegration.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Findings from several...tried as adults."</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Recidivism has four impacts.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The effects of...cannot be understood."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"</span>