[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**Aff Case 1: Just War Theory**
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons. I affirm </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The resolution is a hypothesis on the moral imperative by states to possess nuclear weapons. Thus we must look towards clarifying the contents of the hypothesis to make a decision on it. In order to clarify the contents of the hypothesis, we must identify the practical consequences. Pragmatism clarifies the contents of a hypothesis through the practical consequences. Thus, pragmatism can clarify the resolution, however it must clarify it justly. **Hence, my value is pragmatic justice** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">In order to clarify the contents of the resolution, we must look towards the practical consequences of a nuclear weapon. A nuclear weapon is a weapon that is deliberately meant to make a difference in war. Thus, in order to address the practical consequences of a nuclear weapon in war, we must look towards a pragmatic theory that focuses on war, thus we must look towards the just war theory. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy tells us “Just war theory is probably the most influential perspective on the ethics of war and peace” and that it is “doubly influential, dominating both moral and legal discourse surrounding war. It sets the tone, and the parameters, for the great debate.” (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy) **Hence, my value criterion is the tenants of the Just War Theory** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The Just War theory has three specific aspects of war. These aspects are going into war, actions in war, and exiting a war. Since a nuclear weapon is a weapon, it is implicit that it must be judged as an action in war. For actions during a war, the Just War theory has five tenants, each of which cannot be violated. If one of the tenants is violated, then the war ceases to be just. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.75in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">1. **Obey all international laws on weapon prohibition.** In order for a state to lead a just war, they must obey all bans or sanctions on weapons. The reason that we must obey all international laws on weapons is because the international laws were based off of the tenants of the just war theory, and we must follow the just war theory. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.75in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">2. **Discrimination.** Discrimination tells us that a when conducting war, a state must be able to discriminate between enemy combatants and non combatants. Non combatants should be immune from harm as they are placed in the unfortunate circumstance of war and are not aggressively waging war </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.75in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">3. **Proportionality.** Proportionality tells us that combatants must only use force proportional to the end that they seek and not go above that </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.75in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">4. **No means that is evil in and of themselves**. Combatants may not use any methods or techniques that are considered evil acts. This rules out the use of genocide, mass rape, biological agents, impressments, or weapons with uncontrollable effects </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.75in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">5. **Reprisals are not permitted**. A reprisal is when one country retaliates to another in order to coerce them into obeying international protocol. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 1__- Using nuclear weapons is internationally prohibited** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Since the bombings at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and their grievous and horrific results, nuclear weapons have been a taboo called the nuclear taboo. Tannenwald agrees, “<span style="color: black;">It is widely acknowledged today among nuclear policy analysts and public officials that a "nuclear taboo" exists at the global level. The taboo is associated with wide- spread popular revulsion against nuclear weapons and widely held inhibitions on their use. Prominent analysts and theorists of deterrence, such as George Quester, Thomas Schelling and Bruce Russett, have noted this phenomenon and suggest that it has played a role in explaining non-usage” (International Organization, Nina Tannenwald, Summer 1999). Although international law does not specifically condemn nuclear weapons, the international community does. **Thus, as a taboo on nuclear weapons is in place, using them would violate the tenants of the just war theory. If this tenant of the just war theory is violated, then the practical consequences of the resolution are a violation of the just war theory. If this violation of the just war theory is true, then the resolution can be clarified, as the possession of nuclear weapons is unjust** </span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 2__- Nuclear weapons do not discriminate between combatants and non-combatants** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">A nuclear weapon is by its very nature uncontrollable. Since a nuclear weapon is uncontrollable, it provides no means of discrimination towards combatants or non-combatants. The World Health Organization tells us “<span style="color: black;">The effects of a nuclear weapon3 explosion are the blast (damage to or destruction of buildings and those in them), heat (destruction or injury by high temperatures or fire), intense light (damage to eyesight) and ionizing radiation (causing Acute Radiation Syndromes of different degrees of severity). A detonation similar in size to the bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima (15 kilotons) could result in a high damage zone of a few kilometers radius where there would be few or no survivors. There would also be a significant number of injured people over a considerably larger area” (World Health Organization, Health Protection Guidance, February 2003). This means that the effects of a nuclear weapon have an unpredictable blast radius and therefore it cannot discriminate between combatants and non-combatants. **Thus, because using nuclear weapons makes discrimination between combatants and non-combatants impossible, it violates a tenant of the just war theory. By violating a tenant of the just war theory, the use of nuclear weapons as a whole is unjust.** </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 3__- Nuclear weapons are not proportional to the ends that the states using them are willing to seek** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">In order to make the means proportional to the end that a state is willing to achieve, a state must be able to balance the effects of a nuclear weapon with the end that they are trying to achieve. The use of a nuclear weapon implies that the weapon must have balance. Based on the card that I presented from the World Health Organization, nuclear weapons lack the ability to have balance, as their effects are erratic and unpredictable. The World Health Organization tells us “**Because the effects of a nuclear weapon are unbalanced, nuclear weapons lack the ability to be proportional. Because nuclear weapons lack the ability to be proportional, they violate a tenant of the just war theory.** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 4__- Nuclear weapons use means that are evil in and of themselves** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">A mean that is evil in and of itself is uncontrollability in the mean. Another aspect of an act that is evil in and of itself is one that causes mass casualties very quickly. The Center for Disease Control tells us “The effects on a person from a nuclear blast will depend on the size of the bomb and the distance the person is from the explosion. However, a nuclear blast would likely cause great destruction, death, and injury, and have a wide area of impact.” This card means that a nuclear weapon is both unpredictable and it causes mass casualties. You can link this contention to my previous card by the World Health Organization as the use of a nuclear weapon has unpredictable consequences. More over, nuclear weapons cause mass casualties. **Thus, the fulfillment of two means that are considered evil in and of themselves and violate a tenant of the Just War Theory. This means that we can clarify the contents of the resolution by the violation of the just war theory, and for this reason, nuclear weapons ought not be possessed** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 5__- Nuclear weapons cause reprisals** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The Strategic Studies Institute tells us that the theory of Mutually Assured Destruction <span style="color: black;">implies “nations can deter aggression by having the ability to successfully launch a nuclear attack against a significant number of innocent civilians, acquiring a nuclear arsenal will increasingly be seen as the best way for states to protect themselves”</span> The theory of mutually assured destruction allows reprisals. If a country attacks another country with a nuclear weapon, the theory of mutually assured destruction tells us that the state can fire back, make a reprisal, towards another state. The theory of mutually assured destruction is essentially a nuclear reprisal strategy. A nuclear reprisal strategy tells us that in retaliation, it is morally permissible to kill civilians. Thus, the very idea of a nuclear reprisal violates multiple tenants of the just war theory by killing civilians and creating a reprisal. **Thus, mutually assured destruction violates the just war theory and as it pertains directly to nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons violate the just war theory. By violating the just war theory, we can clarify the resolution by seeing that nuclear weapons violate the just war theory and therefore a state ought not possess them.**</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Aff Case 2- DDE**</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons. I affirm</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The Oxford English Dictionary defines ought as “expressing a moral imperative.” Thus the resolution asks us whether states express or do not express a moral imperative to not possess nuclear weapons. Thus, we must focus this debate specifically to moral imperatives. </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Hence, my value is morality.**</span><span style="font-family: Courier;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Nuclear weapons cause serious harm. The World Health Organization agrees, “The effects of a nuclear weapon explosion are the blast (damage to or destruction of buildings and those in them), heat (destruction or injury by high temperatures or fire), intense light (damage to eyesight) and ionizing radiation (causing Acute Radiation Syndromes of different degrees of severity). A detonation similar in size to the bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima (15 kilotons) could result in a high damage zone of a few kilometres radius where there would be few or no survivors. There would also be a significant number of injured people over a considerably larger area.” Hence we can see that nuclear weapons do cause harm. Thus, instead of focusing this debate on whether or not nuclear weapons cause harm, we must focus on the permissibility of the harm that they are causing. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy tells us “The doctrine (or principle) of double effect is often invoked to explain the permissibility of an action that causes a serious harm, such as the death of a human being, as a side effect of promoting some good end. It is claimed that sometimes it is permissible to cause such a harm as a side effect (or “double effect”) of bringing about a good result even though it would not be permissible to cause such a harm as a means to bringing about the same good end.” Thus, in order to evaluate the permissibility of nuclear weapons, we must use doctrine of double effect. </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Hence, my value criterion is the Doctrine of Double Effect**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">In order for an action that causes serious harm to be morally permissible, the Doctrine of Double Effect has four tenants. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy defines these tenants as:</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-top: 0.19in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">That the action in itself from its very object be good or at least indifferent;</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">That the good effect and not the evil effect be intended;</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">That the good effect be not produced by means of the evil effect;</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0.19in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">That there be a proportionately grave reason for permitting the evil effect”</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">If the tenants of the doctrine of double effect are fulfilled, then the possession of nuclear weapons is justified as the grave harm that they create is morally excusable and therefore it is permissible to use them. However, if a nuclear weapon cannot fulfill the doctrine of double effect, it is morally impermissible, and therefore states ought not possess them. </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Therefore, I place the burden on myself to prove that nuclear weapons violate the doctrine of double effect. If one or more tenants of the doctrine of double effect are violated, then I have won the round instantly as I have shown how nuclear weapons are morally impermissible.** </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Before I begin my case, I would like to provide the following observations</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">A state that is involved in nuclear deterrence has the intention of harming innocent civilians. Lee agrees “The difference between an intention to carry out the threat and bluff would go beyond a difference in disposition of a single individual to a difference in dispositions of a number of individuals and to a difference in organizational structure. At the organizational level, a policy of threats which is bluff is too likely to be discovered or suspected to be such and so to be less effective. Thus an effective policy of nuclear deterrence must involve the intention to retaliate.” </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Hence, when dealing with deterrence, states are willing to deliberately harm people.**</span></span></span>
# <span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The Strategic Studies Institute tells us “nations can deter aggression by having the ability to launch a nuclear attack against a significant number of civilians, acquiring a nuclear arsenal will increasingly be seen as the best way for nations to defend themselves.” Thus, the obligation of a nation to protect them creates the need to possess nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are the only way for a nation to protect them. </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Thus, the sole reason for a state possessing nuclear weapons is to deter other nations**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">__**Contention 1**__</span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**- the possession of nuclear weapons in itself is morally bad**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The possession of nuclear weapons is solely for deterrence. The principle of deterrence is founded on citizens of other countries being held hostage. Lee tells us “</span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">nuclear deterrence imposes on the innocent persons whose lives and well-being it threatens a substantial risk of harm. The risk is real, for the policy is not guaranteed success. It might fail through de- liberation or through accident, and the probability of its failure, even if small, is not negligible. Given the non-negligible probability of failure and the extent of harm failure would bring to innocent persons, the policy imposes a substantial risk of harm on those persons. This is the same way in which cancer is said to impose a substantial risk to each person: the chances of a given person's getting cancer may be small, but the extent of harm caused if cancer does strike is great. Even if deterrence policy never fails, this would not falsify the claim that it imposes a substantial risk of harm.” Thus, the possession of nuclear weapons is for the purpose of killing civilians for the purpose of deterrence. Because the possession of nuclear weapons is for the purpose of killing civilians, possessing nuclear weapons is not morally good. </span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**This links back to my burden as I have proven how the possession of nuclear weapons violates the doctrine of double effect. Thus, I have proven with this contention that the possession of nuclear weapons is not morally permissible and I can win with this contention alone.** </span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">__**Contention 2**__</span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**- the good effect of a nuclear weapon is not intended**</span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The intended effect of a nuclear weapon is to deter other countries. Lee tells us that the intent of deterrence is only permissible if the state is “threatening to use nuclear weapons in such a way that its intention is not to kill innocent persons.” However, this is not a feasible goal. The Center for Disease Control tells us that </span></span><span style="font-family: Courier;">“</span><span style="font-family: Courier;">The effects on a person from a nuclear blast will depend on the size of the bomb and the distance the person is from the explosion. However, a nuclear blast would likely cause great destruction, death, and injury, and have a wide area of impact.” Thus, there is no way in which a country could possibly could not kill innocent people when using a nuclear weapon and the only effect that a nuclear weapon emanates is a bad one. </span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**This links to my burden as I have proven how the possession of nuclear weapons only has a bad effect and therefore I have proven the moral impermissibility of nuclear weapon possession as a whole. Hence, I can win with this contention alone.**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">__**Contention 3**__</span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**- the good effect of a nuclear weapon is produced by the means of the evil effect**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Gralnick tells us that the ultimate goal of nuclear deterrence is that “</span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">the threat</span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;"> </span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">of its employment deter the other side from its use and thus ensures peace.” However, the means which deterrence harnesses are evil. The reason that countries employ deterrence is because of the sheer risk to human life that nuclear weapons pose. A nuclear weapon fired into a civilian body will stop another country from attacking. However, the deaths of innocent people are morally impermissible as it is an evil effect to create a good effect. The effect stemming from this is deterrence, but since the deterrence is a byproduct of a nuclear strike that targets civilians, it is not morally permissible to possess nuclear weapons as they create an evil effect for a good effect. </span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**This links to my burden as I have proven that the possession of nuclear weapons causes deterrence, but it is a byproduct of civilian deaths. Hence, the possession of nuclear weapons is morally impermissible under the doctrine of double effect. Because I have fulfilled my burden, I can win with this contention alone**</span></span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">__**Contention 4**__</span><span style="font-family: Courier;">**- there is no reason that is morally grave enough to permit the evil effect of nuclear weapons**</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: JUSTIFY;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Deterrence is a gamble. While countries threaten the use of nuclear weapons, it does not necessarily mean that they will be deterred. On the contrary, Gralnick tells us “</span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">this policy has pushed us to achieve ever more sophisticated and launch that makes first strike and "hair triggered strategies" capabilities limited nuclear war seem more inviting. Thus, there is a progression, we are brought closer to the brink of nuclear war, and are more, rather than less, threatened.” The implications of a full out nuclear war are severe as they result in an amplified destruction of human life and a large-scale destruction to the environment. Thus, the possession of nuclear weapons as a means to deter other countries creates the evil effect of nuclear war, to which no proportionate reason can be found for possessing them. Therefore the possession of nuclear weapons is morally impermissible. </span></span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**This links into my burden as I have proven that the possession of nuclear weapons does not deter other nations and instead leads countries closer to nuclear war, for which there is no proportionately evil mean. Thus, the possession of nuclear weapons is morally impermissible and I can win with this contention alone.**</span></span></span></span>
**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">If you are confused or need clarification concerning my case, I am happy to address it at [[mailto:rprotter1994@gmail.com|rprotter1994@gmail.com]]</span></span>

==Negative== 
**Neg Case 1: Political Realism Kritik**
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons. I negate </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The Oxford English Dictionary defines a state as “the form of government and constitution established in a country.” Thus, the resolution asks us whether the government has the moral imperative to possess nuclear weapons or whether they don’t have the moral imperative to possess nuclear weapons. The resolution is asking us the question of a governmentally legitimate action. **Hence, my value is governmental legitimacy.** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Bastait tells us that “individuality, liberty, property- this is man. And in spite of the cunning of artful political leaders, these three gifts from god precede all human legislation, and are superior to it. Life, liberty, and property do not exist because men have made laws. On the contrary, it was the fact that life, liberty and property existed beforehand that caused men to make laws in the first place.” (Bastiat, The Law) Hence, in order for a state to be legitimate, they must protect the natural rights of their citizens as their highest priority. This however means that a state must be separated from morality. The theory that a state is not bound to morality is political realism. **Hence, my value criterion is political realism** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Before I begin my case, I would like to provide the following observation </span></span>
# <span style="font-family: Courier; line-height: 150%;">The primary obligation of a state is to protect the natural rights of their citizens. If they place anything above the protection of natural rights, then they are no longer a legitimate state and will cease to exist as a rational unitary actor. Each illegitimate state is non-unique as they each share the similarity of not protecting their citizen’s natural rights. Hence, they are not relevant to this debate. Instead we must focus on legitimate states. Hence, we must assume that each state is a rational unitary actor. </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 1__- the resolution implies that states are bound to morality** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">The resolution specifically expresses that states have a moral imperative to possess or they don’t have the moral imperative to possess nuclear weapons. Hence, the resolution implies that states have moral imperatives in the first place </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 2__- by implying that states are bound to morality, we prevent the protection natural rights** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">Political realism tells us that states must protect the natural rights of their citizens above any other obligation. In order to protect the natural rights of citizens, the state must have the means to enforce it that are immoral but justified. In order to protect citizens from harm by means of invasion, states need a standing army. A standing army must use lethal methods to secure the security of citizens. A state also requires a police force, but without the ability to, on occasion, use lethal force; the law cannot be enforced and is utterly meaningless. **Thus, a state must use justified yet immoral means in order to protect its citizens.** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**__Contention 3__- in order to protect the natural rights of citizens, we must look towards political realism** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">In order to best protect the natural rights of citizens, a state must be separated from morality and instead resort to political realism. Thus, states have no moral imperatives in the first place, as they must resort to political realism. Since states have no moral imperatives whatsoever, they have no moral imperative to not possess nuclear weapons. **Thus, by states not having a moral imperative not to possess nuclear weapons, you can effectively negate the resolution as I have proven that there is no reason for a state to not possess nuclear weapons**</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Neg Case 2- Nuclear Umbrella**</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**resolved: states ought not posses nuclear weapons. I negate the resolution**

**We are looking at ought for the resolution, and since ought is to have a moral obligation, my value for the round is morality. The United States currently leads the alliance of Nato. It extends a nuclear umbrella to a large field of allies. The lists includes over 20 countries both in Nato, and Japan. This nuclear umbrella is in place of the other countries actually having nukes. Only the original founding members of Nato, the US and Britain, France, have nukes. The rest all had to halt the creation of nukes before joining Nato. Under the agreement that ended World War Two, Japan ceded military control, and the US was obliged to protect them. The dissolution of the United States Nuclear Umbrella would require these countries to create their own nukes to protect themselves. If, as my opponent says, the possesion of nuclear weapons is immoral, it follows that what states ought do is minimize the amount of possesion nuclear powers in the world. Because the United States nuclear umbrella prevents the nuclear armament of many other states in return, my value criterion is maintaining the United States nuclear umbrella.**

**Observation 1- If a violation of morality is inevitable, then the act that violates morality less is the act that ought be done.**

**Observation 2- If states have no moral imperative to not have nuclear weapons then you must negate on principle. If my opponent says that possession of nuclear weapons is immoral, then you must look at my case, and negate based on the morality of the US nuclear umbrella.**

**Observation 3 The idea that there are no nuclear weapons in the affirmative world is a logical fallacy, and ought not be entertained in this round. By affirming, states may all have a moral imperative to disarm, but that doesn't mean that they all will. Clearly, there are some states that do immoral things like the beating of women in Iran, and to assume all states will follow moral imperatives is inappropriate. This means that when a state considers disarming in the affirmative world, it does so with the idea that other states will not change ther policies.**

**Observation 4- Even if my framework and case falls, I can still win the round by disproving the Affirmative Constructive, as the burden of proof is on the aff.**

**Contention 1- The United States stops countries from making more nuclear weapons because of the Nuclear Umbrella. As I explained above, countries who are under the Untied States nuclear umbrella are already protected, and therefore, they have no need to spend money on nuclear weapons, or to risk the wrath of the United Nations by violating the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. This is evidenced by a recent quote by the Turkish foreign minister, who said that his country had no need to create nuclear weapons because “we are part of the NATO umbrella, so that is sufficient.” Like wise, Japan recently stated that they would adhere to their non-nuclear weapons status quo under the protection of the United States. They maintained the nessesity of this policy saying that "Located next to a country possessing nuclear arms and thinking of making an attack by using them, Japan is in alliance with the United States, which tries to use its nuclear arsenal as a deterrence,". The logical assumption would be that if the United States abandoned the Japanese in nuclear policy, Japan would have to build nuclear weapons to protect themselves from North Korea and Pakistan. These are just examples, and even if you don't accept them individually, you should still accept that a country under protection from the US umbrella would not needlessly build nuclear weapons, with no result other to enrage the international community and spend billions of dollars. However, without this umbrella, they would need protection, and likely build nuclear weapons. Whether they morally ought to is irrelevant, the fact is they would, and therefore we are morally obliged to stop that. Therefore the United States, by maintaining it's nuclear umbrella, is being moral by stopping the further proliferation of nuclear weapons.**

**For all these aforementioned reasons, you ought negate. I stand ready for cross-examination.**</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">**Do not ever use a nuclear umbrella case. I got killed with it.**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Courier;">***If you are confused or require clarification concerning my case, please contact me at rprotter1994@gmail.com**</span></span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]