Aff cites: darthsuo [at] gmail [dot] com
Neg cites: jcap1219 [at] gmail [dot] com

Actually you should probably just ask Suo

[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
== == 
==1AC== 
===Greenhill=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.**

__**Contention 1: Inherency**__

**The US won’t withdraw now – both the 2011 deadline and the December review are mechanisms for increasing troop levels**
**Klein 6/24** (Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”, http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html)

But the policy featured two caveats that have . . . is no decision on anything until July 2011." 

**Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a minimalist approach is sufficient to contain al Qaeda and prevent a Taliban takeover**
**Nelson 9** (Rick "Ozzie" Nelson, Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, 2009, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)

A1: Probably not. Counterinsurgency doctrine, . . . “all-in” approach would entail.

**Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delaying the transition risks precipitous withdrawal**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

It follows that the most difficult challenge to . . . government wish to use them for that purpose.

__**Contention 2: Stability**__

**Current counterinsurgency strategy is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the unpopular and ineffective central government at the cost of stability**
**Preble 10** (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834 | Suo)

The appropriate question is not whether the war . . . -sufficient, cohesive and stable electoral democracy. 

**More specifically, counterinsurgency doctrine is inherently hostile to local authority structures**
**Friedman 9** (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, 2009, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ | Suo)

Yaroslav Trofimov’s article in Wednesday’s Wall Street Journal . . . them, but it’s a possibility worth considering.

**And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – spills over and destabilizes Pakistan – a minimalist approach is key**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

Finally, within the operational environment of Afghanistan . . . the transfer of nuclear weapons to the Taliban.

**Inevitable destabilization that results from an imposed central government leads to the violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars**
**Morgan 7** (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) 

Although disliked and despised in many quarters, . . . Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

**Most probable scenario for extinction**
**Blank 2k** (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22)

Thus many structural conditions for conventional war or . . . proxies capable of settling the situation.(77)

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
**Suhrke 10** (Astri Suhrke, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March 2010, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, http://www.cmi.no/file/?997)

The insurgency has had a multiplier effect on . . . seemed to be the way developments were going. 

**This is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan**
**Fisher 9** (Max Fisher, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/ | Suo)

President Obama has made it clear that any . . . stability in Afghanistan with a foreseeable exit strategy. 

**No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support**
**Pillar 9** (Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”, http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc | Suo)

This observation sheds light on the nature of . . . military presence there is seen as an occupation.

**Independently, counterinsurgency strategy pushes militants into Pakistan - plan stabilizes Pakistan – withdrawal key**
**Washington citing Bacevich 9** (George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html | Suo)

Meanwhile, the chief effect of allied military . . . security but the security of the entire world.

**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**
**Pitt 9** (William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 



But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a . . . crack open the very gates of Hell itself.


Recently, the Taliban made a military push . . . addressing the situation. So should we all.


__**Contention 3: Al Qaeda**__

**Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use – nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast**
**Evans 10** (Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece | Suo)

Terrorists including al-Qaeda pose a serious . . . and dozens of smart briefcase bombs are available." 

**That is the single greatest threat to global security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
**Hall 10** (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm | Suo)

Obama said "the single biggest threat" . . . used in a terrorist attack" by 2013. 

**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)

As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction . . . Qaeda the only physical space it can access.

**A nuclear strike by al Qaeda causes US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . through the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons

**Al Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence**
**Gorka 10** (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 | Suo)

Almost immediately after 9/11, members . . . in Afghanistan and Pakistan will not be achievable.

**US presence strengthens al Qaeda – it drives militant groups to ally with it and increases recruiting**
**Clemons et al. 10** (Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27)

In short, a complete (and unlikely. . . appear to have been inspired by similar motivations.

**A large footprint makes Pakistani cooperation impossible – that’s necessary to solve terror**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

The Obama administration's instincts favouring robust counter-. . . Somalis, it will be against foreigners.10

**Targeted counterterror is sufficient to keep the Taliban out of power and prevent the recreation of al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan**
**Cortright 9** (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 | Suo)

This analysis suggests the need for a thorough . . . their purposes more effectively and with greater justice.

**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**
**Boyle 10** (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

Another set of offsetting effects emerges if counterinsurgency . . . leverage needed to achieve its essential counterterrorism goals.


__**Contention 4: Hegemony**__

**Counterinsurgency has pushed US heg to the brink – a shift to CT is key to preserve hard power**
**Kretkowski 10** (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html | Suo)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany . . . rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

**US hegemony solves all problems**
**Thayer 6** [Bradley Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy”, The National Interest, December (lexis)]

THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been . . . primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

**Independently, counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan devastates troop morale and readiness – that collapses hegemony**
**Pyne 9** (David T. Pyne, Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America, 2009/11/07, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

In Iraq and Afghanistan, Bush and now . . . of US-ally Georgia this past year.

**And, continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**Certainty of withdrawal is key – it shores up international credibility and boosts political support**
**Schlesinger 10** (Stephen Schlesinger, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City. He is the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html)

The deadline is also a signal to our . . . generals why this surge must be the last.


===St. Marks - New Cards=== 
**COIN advocates are profit-motivated – their analysis is flawed (Read in Inherency)**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Crowley 10</span></span> (Michael Crowley, senior editor … /article/world/coin-toss | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In early 2007, defense analyst Michèle … back to the drawing board.</span>


**And, instability spills over to Central Asia – causes conflict that draws in Russia (Read on Stability)**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Goble 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, [[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]])</span>
<span class="underline">Because NATO has </span>…<span class="underline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">drawn in</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">as well.</span>


**Al Qaeda’s still strong – small numbers mask greater influence (Read on Al Qaeda)**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Fishman 10</span></span> (Brian Fishman is a counterterrorism research fellow at the New America Foundation, July 1, 2010, “Counting al-Qaeda”, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/01/how_many_members_does_al_qaeda_have)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Sanger and … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">they have not really changed.</span>



**Expanded drone strikes are a result of mixing CT with COIN – mission creep (Read on Al Qaeda)**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span> (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)
<span class="UnderlineChar">A second</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and related … incursions on Pakistani territory. 74</span>


**CT is better than COIN at intelligence gathering – regular soldiers don’t have the right skills** **(Read on Al Qaeda)**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span> (Rick “Ozzie” Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He is a former Navy helicopter pilot with over twenty years operational and intelligence experience, including assignments at the National Security Council and the National Counterterrorism Center. He recently served in Afghanistan. Oct 15, 2009, “Intelligence Gathering Is Compatible with Counterterrorism”, http://csis.org/publication/intelligence-gathering-compatible-counterterrorism | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q1: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Proponents of counterinsurgency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .. al Qaeda in Iraq.</span>
== == 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michigan RR - New Cards</span>=== 

**Statistics flow aff – prefer quantifiable metrics to military propaganda**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 10/29</span></span> (Michael A. Cohen, senior fellow … )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there are two wars … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">are likely to be ephemeral.</span>
**The Taliban are flexible – concepts like momentum don’t exist and their political calculus precludes negotiations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor 10/28</span></span> (Global intelligence company, October 28, 2010, “… )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a report Wednesday in … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">as lacking that latter possibility.</span>
===<span class="UnderlineChar">Blake - Nonpolarity Advantage</span>=== 

**Contention 4: Nonpolarity**

**US material decline is inevitable – and power is decoupling from influence**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Haass 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, April 16, 2008,”The Age of Nonpolarity”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/04/the_age_of_nonpolarity.html) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">In this world, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the United States</span> is and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar"> as is the proliferation of weaponry. </span>

**But, withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture international legitimacy**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Zachary 9</span> </span>(G. Pascal Zachary, a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. He teaches journalism at Stanford University and is a fellow at the German Marshall Fund. 12 October 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The alternative to a McChrystal escalation </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span> regional <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">solutions</span> to problems in distant lands.</span>

**And, a shift in away from counterinsurgency reasserts US institutional principles – that’s comparatively more important to heg**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Polk 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William Polk, the member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history, 11-23-09, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">We are indeed at a cross-roads in our </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span> peoples “a city on the hill.” </span>

**Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span></span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">I see a multi-polar world</span> as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">decline of American predominance in world affairs.” 60 </span>

**And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony anyway**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Mendelsohn 10</span></span> (Barak Mendelsohn is an assistant professor of political science at Haverford College and a senior fellow of FPRI. Author of Combating Jihadism: American Hegemony and Interstate Cooperation in the War on Terrorism, June 2010, “The Question of International Cooperation in the War on Terrorism”, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going against common conceptions, I argue </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and prevents the uninhibited exercise of power. </span>

**Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span></span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

<span class="UnderlineChar">A final major gain to the United States </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . .</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar"> a broad measure of international security</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>57

**Even if withdrawal hurts credibility, failure is net worse**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former national security adviser Henry </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span> </span>

===Blake Semis - Pakistan Advantage=== 

**COIN collapses Pakistan, unites the Taliban and overwhelms any current safeguards – only withdrawal solves**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fuller 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ([[#_GoBack]]Graham E., an American author and political analyst, specializing in Islamic extremism, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council. He is author of numerous books on the Middle East, including The Future of Political Islam, 5/10, “Obama's Policies Making Situation Worse in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/graham-e-fuller/global-viewpoint-obamas-p_b_201355.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For all the talk of “smart power,” President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">. . . become more the problem than the solution</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? We do not hear that debate. </span>

**There is a direct tradeoff – large scale presence pushes the Taliban into Pakistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute. She is a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies, 4/24/09, “Withdrawing from Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/04/24/withdrawing-from-afghanistan/ | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I described the situation to my Cato </span><span class="UnderlineChar">. . . beat back the Taliban’s incursions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**That collapses Pakistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Akhtar 10</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Shameem, professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university 1/26/10, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout|http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If it is a </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> against extremists and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">. . . </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moment</span>, thus <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">destabilizing the state</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a </span><span class="UnderlineChar">. . . </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. </span>

**No Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Pillar 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”, http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">This observation sheds light on the . . . </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">there is</span> seen as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">an occupation. </span></span>

**And, an illegitimate central government means COIN is unsustainable**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Galbraith 10</span></span> (Peter W. Galbraith served as the first US Ambassador to Croatia where he mediated the 1995 Erdut Agreement that ended the Croatian war. His other senior government roles include being the UN Secretary-General's Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan in 2009 and a cabinet member in East Timor's first transitional government in 2000-01, May 17th 2010, “The opposition's opening remarks”, [[http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516]])

<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The war in Afghanistan is not winnable </span></span> <span class="UnderlineChar">. . . </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">insurgency, the war in Afghanistan is not winnable.</span>
===Beacon=== 

**Michael and I advocate the ending of the occupation of Afghanistan and Iraq.**

**Contention 1: End the War**

**COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US is perpetuating a bloody war**
**Preble 10** (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)

The appropriate question is not whether the war . . . with other security challenges elsewhere in the world.

**Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the Afghanistan war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives.**
**Crowe 7** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)

The historical production of particular myths of Afghanistan . . . who is benefiting and who is being disappeared?

**The consequence is global violence and the re-entrenchment of state sovereignty**
**Milbank, 2002**, Christian theologian, Professor of Religion, Politics and Ethics at the University of Nottingham. He previously taught at the University of Virginia and before that at the University of Cambridge. Milbank was educated in Britain, studying at Oxford and Cambridge (where he studied under Rowan Williams) before receiving his PhD from the University of Birmingham, “Sovereignty, Empire, Capital, and Terror,” Project Muse

Concerning the immediate aftermath of the events of . . . to be within the unrestricted one world market. 


**Full political engagement that challenges the imperialist violence of Afghanistan is necessary. Praxis combined with language changes is important for breaking down the hegemony of imperialist violence in the public sphere.**
**Cloud 4** (Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)

Scholars should understand the workings of images during . . . of shared humanity, solidarity, and peace. 

**Debate over Afghanistan is good – key to break down military control of policy.**
Kelly 10 (Lorelei, Washington D.. . . _or_should_we_go)

What I keep saying to progressives is, . . . only functioning, healthy institution is the military. 

**Contention 2: Agonism**

**Our form of debate is necessary for the creation of an agonistic debate community**
**Arendt 5** (Hannah, The Promise of Politics. P. 18-19)

More than his friend as a person, . . . friendship, in which no rulership is needed.

**Agonism is the only way to deal with the irreducibility of ideological conflict – the alternative is violence**
**Mouffe 2k** (Chantal Mouffe, Visiting Professor at the Department of Political Science of the Institute for Advanced Studies, June 2000, “Deliberative Democracy or Agonistic Pluralism”, http://users.unimi.it/dikeius/pw_72.pdf)

Besides putting the emphasis on practices and language . . . seen as temporary respites in an ongoing confrontation. 

**And, agonism is comparatively the best way to resist oppression**
**Mouffe 2k** (Chantal Mouffe, Visiting Professor at the Department of Political Science of the Institute for Advanced Studies, June 2000, “Deliberative Democracy or Agonistic Pluralism”, http://users.unimi.it/dikeius/pw_72.pdf)

In their desire to show the limitations of . . . where a rational universal consensus could be reached. 

**Agonism prevents mass genocides, war, and absolute exclusion by acknowledging ideological distinctions**
**Rasch 5** (William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle South Atlantic Quarterly 104 (2) http://saq.dukejournals.org/cgi/reprint/104/2/253.pdf)

Schmitt, then, starts from the premise . . . produce recurring, asphyxiating political nightmares of absolute exclusion

**Contention 3: Urbicide**

**Current imperial violence functions by obscuring the ways in which our cities are targets. We have to collapse the analytic distinction to resist oppression**
**Graham 6** (Volume 30.2 June 2006 255–76 International Journal of Urban and Regional Research Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council)

The purpose of this article is to demonstrate . . . 2004; Boal et al. , 2005). 

**Military urbicide is a map for domestic policing – the same ideology of subconscious racial fear propels both**
**Graham 9** (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425 Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)

In the contemporary period, the military urbanism . . . every bit as foreign as Baghdad or Gaza.

**We have to connect our foreign policymaking to the struggle at home – connect core sites of resistance is key to overcome militarism.**
**Graham 9** (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425 Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)

The power of the new military urbanism thesis . . . -down democratic politics (Zimmermann, 2007). 

**Critical urban geography has to UNITE struggles – violence against urban spaces is a unified front that collapses their home and abroad distinction**
**Graham 9** (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425 Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)

Here the latest debates about 'asymmetric', 'irregular' . . . -straddling extra-legal torture camps and gulags 

**This is particularly true in the context of the war on terrorism**
**Graham 9** (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425 Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)

In rendering all mixed-up cities as . . . the 'badlands' of the contemporary French Republic.5 

===Harvard Round Robin - Net-centric Warfare Advantage=== 
**Counterinsurgency precludes network-centric warfare in Afghanistan**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html]])

If the conflict in Iraq started out with . . . was not a result driven principally by numbers.

**Decentralized CT spills over – it’s a doctrinal laboratory**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html]])

The foregoing analysis has conveyed the sense that. . . shift now is the change we need. PRISM 

**And, Afghanistan is the proving ground for net-centric warfare**
**Reynolds 6** (Kevin Reynolds, currently assigned to the Department of Distance Education (DDE), U.S. Army War College as a professor and course author. Prior to his present assignment, he served as the Director of First Year Studies within DDE. November 2006, “DEFENSE TRANSFORMATION: TO WHAT, FOR WHAT?”, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub733.pdf]])

Enamored with the potentially decisive advantage that information . . . space—warfare will be truly revolutionized. 13

**Network centric warfare is crucial to maintaining hegemony**
**Wilson 4** (Clay Wilson, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service, June 2, 2004, “Network Centric Warfare: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/33858.pdf)

Introduction This report provides background information and discusses . . . that involves people, processes, and systems. 
**US hegemony solves all problems**
**Thayer 6** [Bradley Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy”, The National Interest, December (lexis)]

THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been . . . primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

**Independently, network centric warfare prevents all future conflict** 
**Wilson 4** (Clay Wilson, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service, June 2, 2004, “Network Centric Warfare: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, http://fpc.state.gov/documents
/organization/33858.pdf)

The network centric approach to warfare is the . . . adaptability for both joint and coalition NCW operations. 

**A netwar doctrine can realign US strategy to make hegemony sustainable and avoid any potential blowback**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war)

The irony, however, is that the . . . shape it, saving the world from darkness. 

**Even if withdrawal hurts credibility, failure is net worse**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

===Harvard Round Robin - Losing the War=== 
**COIN fails – prefer statistics to military propaganda – and all gains are tactical not strategic**
**Cohen 2/9** (Michael, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?page=0,1)

Over the past two weeks, as the . . . rhetoric solely on rosy assessments of military progress.



==2AC== 
===2AC SKFTA – Pace RR=== 
**Won’t pass despite multiple claims that momentum exists – won’t use pol cap**
Peter **Gemma**, The Economic Populist, 1/20/2011. “Is Korea a Long Way Away?” http://www.economicpopulist.org/content/korea-long-way-away

The proposed South Korea Free Trade Agreement has . . . the U.S. duty-free. 

**Baucus will block SKFTA and any delay dooms it**
**Yonhap 1/11** (Hwang Doo-hyong, Yonhap News Agency, “Businesses urge Obama to expedite process for Korea FTA's ratification”, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/01/12/39/0301000000AEN20110112000300315F.HTML)
Failure to present the deal to Congress by . . . address Korea's significant barriers to American beef exports."

**Plan popular with Baucus – he already voted to end the war.**
**Naiman 10** (Robert, Senior policy analyst at Just Foreign Policy., 5/28, “Eighteen Senators Back Timetable for Afghanistan Withdrawal”, http://www.truth-out.org/eighteen-senators-back-timetable-afghanistan-withdrawal59941)

On Thursday, 18 senators voted for Senator . . . specific date for the withdrawal of American forces.)

**Baucus key---Obama needs to make concessions to him to get on board**
Forbes, 12/6
http://blogs.forbes.com/. . . -trade-deal-pass-congress/

End of story? Not quite. Senator . . . Montana should be on the White House itinerary.

**15. Plan increases political capital**
**Inboden 9** (William, senior vice president of the Legatum Institute, 8/21, “Obama and LBJ: A Comparison to Avoid”, http://blog.american.com/?p=4139)

Yet there are worrisome signs this week that . . . leadership—lessons about what not to do. 

7. Plan’s popular with the GOP
Malou Innocent -foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute – 3/10/2010
(Politico “Leaving Afghanistan Moves Beyond Left . . . ty)

The resolution's substance and timing are revealing. . . . troops. It's time to bring them home.


Public hates COIN
Crowe 10 (Derrick, 6/27, “Love the Afghanistan War in Public at Your Peril”, http://rethinkafghanistan.com/blog/)

Even those closest to McChrystal know that the . . . the Afghanistan War in public at your peril.


That kills the agenda
Edwards 97 [George C. Texas A&M Polisci Prof, Congress and the Presidency, Volume 25, number 2, pg 121] 

Widespread support should give the president leeway and . . . maneuver checked; he loses crucial “leeway.”


CT isn’t full withdrawal – Obama can spin
IISS 10 – International Institute for Strategic Studies, (April, “Obama's presidency bolstered by political success” http://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/past-issues/volume-16-2010/april/obamas-presidency-bolstered-by-political-success/ )

Accordingly, it may transpire that the full. . . he may wait until then to take stock.


SKFTA won’t affect relations with South Korea 
Cooper et al. 9 (William H. Cooper, Coordinator Specialist in International Trade and Finance Mark E. Manyin Specialist in Asian Affairs Remy Jurenas Specialist in Agricultural Policy Michaela D. Platzer Specialist in Industrial Organization and Business. 4/20, “The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA501319&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

Many observers have argued that in addition to . . . failure to pass it could harm the alliance.



No escalation – structural factors check conflict 
Muthia Alagappa 8, Distinguished Senior Fellow, East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, 2008. “The Long Shadow,” p. 512

International political interaction among Asian states is for . . . serving and enhancing security and stability in Asia. 


Budget drains capital
Wingfield 1/25 (Brian, Forbes' Washington Bureau Chief, currently focusing on tax and budget issues., “State Of The Union: The Fight To Freeze Spending”, http://blogs.forbes.com/brianwingfield/2011/01/25/state-of-the-union-the-fight-to-freeze-spending/)

If you’re looking for a sneak peek at . . . non-security discretionary spending don’t look good.


===2AC Minerals DA=== 
The NYT report is government propaganda to build support for the war and won’t create stability. 
Drummond 10 (Katie, 6/14, “No, the U.S. Didn’t Just ‘Discover’ a $1T Afghan Motherlode (Updated)” http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/06/no-the-military-didnt-just-discover-an-afghan-mineral-motherlode/#ixzz0s5Rmc7Q2)

Despite what you may read this morning, . . . tabs on which Afghan officials are stealing what. 


Competition with China inevitable
Riedel 10 - Senior Fellow @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy (Bruce, Senior Fellow @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “The Afghan Gold Rush,” Brookings, June 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0616_afghanistan_minerals_riedel.aspx)

Afghanistan’s newly discovered mineral wealth — worth perhaps . . . longest war, the stakes have gotten bigger.
The Soviet invaders of Afghanistan did the first . . . war just got even more important and complicated.


The minerals increase anger with US troops – Afghans think we are going to steal them.
Arnoldy 10, Staff writer CSM, (Ben, 6/15, “News of Afghanistan's mineral wealth deepens suspicion of US aims”, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Global-News/2010/0615/News-of-Afghanistan-s-mineral-wealth-deepens-suspicion-of-US-aims)


Many Afghans I have spoken with believe firmly . . . of a population famous for tiring of invaders. 


===**2AC Centralization CP**=== 

**Can’t solve – funding local governments within the framework of COIN means Karzai undercuts**
**Galbraith 10** (Peter W. Galbraith served as the first US Ambassador to Croatia where he mediated the 1995 Erdut Agreement that ended the Croatian war. His other senior government roles include being the UN Secretary-General's Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan in 2009 and a cabinet member in East Timor's first transitional government in 2000-01, May 17th 2010, “The opposition's opening remarks”, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516)

Some proponents of the current strategy urge the . . . produce better, or more durable, results. 

**The ANF is hopeless – but a withdrawal empowers local forces to stabilize Afghanistan**
**Castonguay 10** (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords | Suo)

The United States helped develop and gradually train . . . States is banking too much on the ANF.

**Plan’s a prequisite – tribal engagement can only be effective if coupled with a reduction in the US footprint**
**Jones 9** (Seth, political scientist at the RAND Corporation and adjunct professor at Georgetown University, “U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan,” April, Congressional Testimony, http://www.rand.org/pubs/testimonies/2009/RAND_CT324.pdf)

There is no clear-cut answer – . . . than a large U.S. footprint.


===2AC AI Addon=== 
**Plan solves robowar**
**Turse 10** Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/ 

Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, the US Air . . . due and are, quite literally, paid. 

**That leads to killer AI**
**GRAHAM 8** CITY, VOL. 12, NO. 1, APRIL 2008 Robowar™ dreams: US military technophilia and global south urbanization KIPFER 2 Associate Professor, YORK UNIVERSITY BA (Political Science and French), MES (Urban Political Economy and Ecological Politics), PhD (Political Science) York Stefan Kipfer. Capitalism, Nature, Socialism. Santa Cruz: Jun 2002. Vol. 13, Iss. 2; pg. 117, 33 pgs Urbanization, everyday life and the survival of capitalism: Lefebvre, Gramsci and the problematic of Hegemony

Crucially, such munitions will be equipped with . . . military power in Iraq and Israel/Palestine. 

**That wrecks friendly AI**
**GOERTZEL 2** http://www.sl4.org/archive/0206/4449.html Ben Goertzel (born December 8, 1966 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil), is an American author and researcher in the field of artificial intelligence. He currently leads Novamente LLC, a privately held software company that attempts to develop a form of strong AI they call "Artificial General Intelligence". He is also the CEO of Biomind LLC, a company that markets a software product for the AI-supported analysis of biological microarray data; and he is Director of Research of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence. obtained a Ph.D. in mathematics from Temple University in 1989, then taught mathematics, computer science and psychology at various universities, including the University of Nevada, City University of New York, the University of Waikato, and the University of Western Australia.

In my view, the main danger to . . . to associations involving killing large numbers of humans!

**Extinction**
**SI 1** http://www.singinst.org/upload/CFAI//policy.html#comparative The Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence (SIAI) is a non-profit organization founded in 2000 to develop safe artificial intelligence software, and to raise awareness of both the dangers and potential benefits it believes AI presents. The organization advocates ideas initially put forth by I. J. Good and Vernor Vinge regarding an "intelligence explosion", or Singularity, which is predicted to follow the creation of sufficiently advanced AI. In their view, the potential benefits and risks of this event necessitate the search for solutions to problems involving AI goal systems to ensure powerful AIs are not dangerous when they are created. The Singularity Institute espouses the Friendly AI model created by its co-founder Eliezer Yudkowsky as a potential solution to such problems. Michael Vassar serves as the organization's president, and inventor and futures studies author Ray Kurzweil serves as one of its directors. SIAI maintains an advisory board whose members include Oxford philosopher Nick Bostrom, biomedical gerontologist Aubrey de Grey, PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel, and Foresight Nanotech Institute co-founder Christine Peterson. The SIAI is tax exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and has a Canadian branch, SIAI-CA, formed in 2004 and recognized as a Charitable Organization by the Canada Revenue Agency.//

//4.1: Comparative analyses "Nor . . . is thus the best challenge to confront first.//



===2AC India Relations DA=== 


**Afghanistan’s not key to India relations – and CT is sufficient to solve anyway**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Pritchett 10</span></span> (Raymond Pritchett, Technologist, Entrepreneur, and Government IT Consultant with specialization in large public and private tech project strategy development and implementation, September 24, 2010, “The Afghanistan Exaggeration”, http://www.informationdissemination.net/2010/09/afghanistan-exaggeration.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Farley</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span class="UnderlineChar">identified a remarkable statement by </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>. . . <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">balance of power issues between</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> major powers like </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the US and China</span>.</span>

**India will never align with China and plan increases relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Farley 10</span></span> (Robert Farley, Assistant Professor, started at the Patterson School in 2005 as a post-doc scholar. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Washington Department of Political Science in 2004. September 23, 2010, “Balancing and Bandwagoning”, http://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2010/09/balancing-and-bandwagoning)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Robert Kaplan says all manner of silly things</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but because he </span>. . . <span style="font-size: 8pt;">both theoretical insight and empirical knowledge, while possessing neither.</span>

**India likes the plan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">D’Souza 9</span></span> (Shanthie Mariet D’Souza, Associate Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi, October 22, 2009, “Securing India’s interests in Afghanistan”, http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article37329.ece)
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">As</span> instability and violence in Afghanistan intensify, and </span>. . . <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“reintegration of individuals into the mainstream.” </span>

**India won’t engage in democracy promotion – structural obstacles**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Faust and Wagner 10</span></span> (Dr. Jörg Faust, Head of Department “Governance, Statehood, Security“, German Development Institute, Dr. Christian Wagner, Head of Asia Research Division, German Institute for International and Security Affairs, 3/2010, “India: A New Partner in Democracy Promotion?”, [[http://www.die-gdi.de/CMS-Homepage/openwebcms3.nsf/%28ynDK_contentByKey%29/ANES-825GSY/$FILE/BP%203.2010.pdf|http://www.die-gdi.de/CMS-Homepage/openwebcms3.nsf/(ynDK_contentByKey)/ANES-825GSY/$FILE/BP%203.2010.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">India as a promoter of democracy in South Asia? </span>. . . <span style="font-size: 8pt;">into a crusader for Western-style democracy.</span>


===AT: PRT PIC=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PRTs are ineffective and hamper Afghan-led efforts </span>**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span></span> (Gilles, Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, January 2009, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf]]</span>)

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Development is not the key in Afghanistan</span>. . . . <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> by</span></span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> allied bombings, search </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">operations</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and other actions. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasing development aid causes conflict and erodes our credibility </span>**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Exum 10</span></span> (Andrew, fellow at The Center For a New American Security, 5/10, “Leverage: Designing a Political Campaign For Afghanistan <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Leverage_Exum_1.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With respect to the second of the president’s goals, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;">. . . </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to address </span>//immediate drivers of conflict//. 

**Perception of imperial presence outweighs development aid – empirically proven**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Scheuer 10</span></span> **-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Adjunct Professor of Security Studies, Georgetown University (Michael, “Obama should have sent a Marine,” 6/24, National Journal’s Experts Blog, http://security.nationaljournal.com/2010/06/whats-at-stake-in-southcentral.php) </span>

<span style="color: black; display: none;">General McChrystal's insubordinate but perfectly accurate words disqualified him from continuing to command U.S. forces in Afghanistan. Obama is a wimp, Holbrooke is a fool, and Biden is marooned in the Cold War. Still, if you take the king's shilling and you must do the king's bidding, and do it silently. The problem of McChrystral is over and will have no impact on the Afghan War. That war was lost more than a year ago by Obama, Biden, Holbrooke, McChrystal, and Petraeus and their fantasy counterinsurgency policy. </span>
<span style="color: black; display: none;">Four months after the first field test of their policy in a place called Majrah District in Afghanistan's southern Helmand Province the forces of the U.S.-led coalition are still fighting an enemy they predicted would be easily removed. It has, however, succeeded in reopening the local market, improving the irrigation system, and building miles of new roads. What they have utterly failed to do is what the counterinsurgency experts -- especially two men named John Nagl and David Kilcullen -- asserted would be easy to do; namely, by "protectin... </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">General McChrystal's insubordinate but </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> . . . <span class="UnderlineChar"> in by the rural Afghan population</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2AC NATO DA</span>=== 


**1) All major allies are planning a withdrawal – we must realign our strategy now.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sarro 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Doug, Int'l Relations and Peace and Conflict Studies @ U of Toronto, 6/23/10, “Five Reasons to Withdraw From Afghanistan Sooner Rather Than Later,” Huffington Post, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-sarro/five-reasons-to-withdraw_b_621903.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. The rest of </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">NATO won't be in Afghanistan much . . . from Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2011, and finish withdrawing soon after.</span>

**3) NATO wants out of Afghanistan and its resilient anyway**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brunnstrom 11/19</span></span> (David Brunnstrom, Reuters, Nov 19, 2010, “NATO stresses global role despite Afghan trauma”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AI4O320101119]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LEADERS COMMIT TO NATO "RENEWAL" "</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> . . . the United States,</span> Canada <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and Europe</span>. </span>

**8) NATO is useless – no impact to collapse**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marian L. </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Tupy</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, policy analyst with the Center for Global Liberty and Prosperity, 5/1/200</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">3</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Worse Than Useless?” CATO institute, [[http://www.cato.org/research/articles/tupy-030501.html]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a military perspective, the case for </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> . . . </span>continent<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. NATO is </span>not only <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">useless</span>, it's harmful. </span>

**9) Draw down key to Cohesion**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrew – professor of history and international relations @ Boston University, “Let Europe be Europe: Why the United States must withdraw from NATO”, March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/let_europe_be_europe?page=0,1]]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the course of the disastrous 20th century, . . . </span><span class="UnderlineChar">than able to manage its own affairs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US drawdown allows NATO withdraw and still maintain credibility**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lightfoot 9</span></span> (Jeff Lightfoot is assistant director of the International Security Program at the Atlantic Council, October 13, 2009, “10 Questions on Afghanistan”, [[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/10-questions-afghanistan]])

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U.S. is not engaged in this fight alone</span>. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. . . </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> hasten their withdrawal from the mission.</span></span>

**US legitimacy and strong multilateral institutions means Russia will integrate with the West**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lukyanov 10</span></span> (Fyodor Lukyanov, editor in chief of the journal Russia in Global Affairs, “Rethinking Russia : Russian Dilemmas in a Multipolar World”, Columbia Journal of International Affairs, Vol. 63, No. 2, Spring/Summer 2010 page 19-32, [[http://jia.sipa.columbia.edu/russian-dilemmas-multipolar-world]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">One can debate whether the Soviet Union’s breakup </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . . . </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">enacted on their basis may turn out to be similar. </span>



===2AC Signing Statement CP=== 


**5) Substantially means an essential part of US commitment – means we do optimal means – not full legal means.**
**Words and Phrases 64** p. 818. 

“Substantially” means in substance; in the main; essentially; by including the material or essential part.


**6) The president has control over withdrawals of troops – the CP wrecks SOP**
**Yoo 1NC Author 1** [John C, THE PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST TERRORISTS AND NATIONS SUPPORTING THEM Deputy Assistant Attorney General Office of Legal Counsel, http://www.justice.gov/olc/warpowers925.htm]

Fourth, depriving the President of the power . . . President's plenary authority in foreign affairs ever since.

Key to terror
Sulmasy 9 (Glenn. . . POWER: THE LAST THIRTY YEARS, Lexis)

Since the attacks of 9/11, . . . well as the Commander-in-Chief.

**Prez powers best way to have restrained multilateralism and heg – other agents are just erratic**
Hamilton 99 (Lee H, Director of . . . )

I find Congress often acting erratically in foreign . . . you make it almost impossible to solve them.



===2AC T Non-Combat=== 
**1. We meet – counterinsurgency forces aren’t in combat**


**2. Presence is forces and their equipment for military operations.**
**GAO 99** (Government Accountability Office, Report to Congressional Committees United States General Accounting Office GAO November 2001 MILITARY READINESS Effects of a U.S. Military Presence in Europe on Mobility Requirements, http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA396948)

The Department of Defense defines overseas presence as . . . six Air Force air base support sets. 

**3. Predictable – the DoD provides the best definition for military presence because it decides military policy – creates debate most commensurate with the lit**

**4. Ground – they exclude Afghanistan and Iraq affs – that’s core to the military policy literature**

**5. Destroys the topic – anything can be combat**
**Scheimer 9** (J. D. Candidate, 2009, American University, Washington College of Law; B.A. Government, 2003, College of William and Mary. Michael Scheimer is a National Security Policy Analyst with a major defense contractor. “Separating Private Military Companies From Illegal Mercenaries in International Law: Proposing an International Convention for Legitimate Military and Security Support That Reflects Customary International Law” 24 Am. U. Int'l L. Rev. 609

For purposes of this article, I assume . . . and to the non-state actors involved.

6. Their interpretation is arbitrary and every soldier is in combat.
**Ferner 10** (Mike, president of "" Veterans for Peace"". He is also author of “Inside the Red Zone: A Veteran For Peace Reports from Iraq”., 9/4, “ There is no such thing as “non combat troops””, http://www.tehrantimes.com/index_View.asp?code=225987)

First, there is no such thing as . . . of military euphemisms meant to obscure painful reality.

**The aff is key to education.**
**Long 10** (Austin, Assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)

One of the most important debates to emerge . . . illusion, doomed to fail if attempted.2

**Substantially must be 50% - checks any limits explosion**
**Pallone 3** – US Congressional Representative (Text of H.R. 3189, introduced by Pallone, to amend Title XVII of the Social Security Act,” 9/25, http://www.theorator.com/bills108/hr3189.html)

`(7) SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION- The term . . . fourth sentence of section 602(3).'

**7. Default to reasonability – competing interpretations leads to a race to the bottom – if we don’t make debate impossible don’t vote us down**


===2AC Development Aid CP=== 
**Perception of imperial presence outweighs development aid – empirically proven**

**Scheuer 10** - Adjunct Professor of Security Studies, Georgetown University (Michael, “Obama should have sent a Marine,” 6/24, National Journal’s Experts Blog, http://security.nationaljournal.com/2010/06/whats-at-stake-in-southcentral.php)

General McChrystal's insubordinate but perfectly . . . or acquiesced in by the rural Afghan population.

4. Increasing development aid causes conflict and erodes our credibility
**Exum 10** (Andrew, fellow at The Center For a New American Security, 5/10, “Leverage: Designing a Political Campaign For Afghanistan http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Leverage_Exum_1.pdf)

With respect to the second of the president’s . . . should be to address immediate drivers of conflict.

7. Development aid won’t buy political allegiance
**Dorronsoro 9** (Gilles, Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, January 2009, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf)

Development is not the key in Afghanistan. . . . bombings, search operations, and other actions.


**9. Development aid fails – Afghanistan’s political and social structure mean it’s impossible**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

After nearly eight years, the pledge to . . . has already sunk too far into that morass.






=Negative= 


==Greenhill Round 1, Neg v. Carrollton CV== 


===//Rearm DA//=== 



**A. Japan is on the brink of nuclearizing due to North Korean weapons, credible US protection acts as a deterrent preventing Japan prolif**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnaby 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frank, a nuclear physicist, Professor … )</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Japan has the technical means … </span>security would indeed be severe.</span></span>

**B. Any reduction in US presence triggers Japanese prolif that causes nuclear war**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rowe 95</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen C., Professor of Liberal … )</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A credible</span> U.S. nuclear <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">umbrella is … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.(68) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Such a combination is intensely dangerous.</span>


==Greenhill Round 4, Neg v. Kinkaid== 


===South Korean Politics Disad=== 


**A. Lee’s econ reform will pass now – limiting consumer price growth and inflation**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 9/2</span></span> (Eunkyung Seo and William Sim, staff writers for Bloomberg - Sep 2, 2010 “South Korea Says it Will Take `Pre-emptive Action' to Limit Price Growth” [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-02/s-korea-to-implement-measures-to-limit-inflation-finance-ministry-says.html]])

<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">South Korea will take steps … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">economic growth, Kim said yesterday. </span>

**B. Plan is unpopular in South Korea – trades off with domestic focus on the economy**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Lee 6</span></span> (Cheoleon, Senior Research Director – The Gallup Organization, “Gallup World Poll: South Korea's Political Dilemma”, 9-22, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Withdrawing U.S. Troops From South Korea … for North Korean nuclear issues. </span>

**C. Capital key to reforms – failure destroys South Korean growth**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Young 9</span></span> (Dr. Soogil, President – National Strategy Institute and Chair – Korea National Committee for Pacific Economic Cooperation, “South Korea: A Test of Political Leadership”, 1-5, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/01/05/south-korea-a-test-of-political-leadership/)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The real challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> facing the … they handle this challenge in 2009. </span>

**D. That collapses the global economy**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Ejaz 98</span></span> (Dr. Manzur, Prof Philosophy – U Punjab, Columnist For BBC, The Nation, and The News, “Pakistan Can Learn From South Korea’s Economic Woes”, 1-5, http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After dragging their feet for … in the last few months.</span>

**E. Global nuclear war**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 09</span></span> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If current market turmoil seriously … </span><span class="underline0">may</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> still </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">have to fight</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>



===South Korean Deterrence Disad=== 


**U.S. presence is sustainable – committed to maintaining credible deterrence**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kellerhals 10</span></span> (6/7/10, “Merle David Jr., Staff Writer, “… )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington -- Pursuing common interests in … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and improve relationships, he said.</span>

**US withdrawal wrecks regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation**.
Richardson 6
[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Rumors of a substantial drawdown or … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">stability, even in a reunified Korea.</span>

**Outweighs the aff - Asia is the most likely scenario for nuclear war – stepped up US presence is needed**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay 2K</span></span> (Jonathan Landay, Knight-… high in Asian conflicts," Lexis)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The</span> 3,700-mile arc that begins … Asia and (away) from Europe</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>



==GDS Round 3, Neg v. Gulliver== 


===Reform Counternarcotics CP=== 


**The United States federal government should**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">- Increase funding for comprehensive rurual development efforts</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> - Increase funding for job creation outside the rural sector</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> - Design interdiction measures focusing on Taliban, drug financers, and government linked traffickers</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> - Fund high value and labor intensive crops and address the structural drivers of poppy cultivation</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> - Increase funding economic development programs </span>**

**Solves the aff**
**__Felbab-Brown 7/21/10__** (Vanda Felbab-Brown, Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, July 21, 2010, “International Counternarcotics Policies: Do They Reduce Domestic Consumption or Advance other Foreign Policy Goals? Counternarcotics Policy, Afghanistan, Colombia, Mexico, U.S. Politics, http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0721_international_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.aspx, )

Afghanistan __The Obama Administration should be congratulate...__land, microcredit, and education, for example.


===Russia Relations DA=== 


[[#_GoBack]]**US Russia Relations high now – cooperation of narcotic policies in Afghanistan, New York Talks with NATO, and fighting terrorism**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Collinson 9/22</span></span> (Stephen Collinson, 9/22/10, “NATO and Russia on 'solid path': alliance chief,” http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hkqOhkvLcM6gHRjmyqHP5syeiLoA)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen Wednesday . . . on a reassessment of the threat from Iran.</span>

**Ending counternarcotics presence kills relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bodansky 10</span></span> (Yossef Bodansky, political scientist who served as Director of the Congressional Task Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare of the US House of Representatives from 1988 to 2004. He is also Director of Research of the International Strategic Studies Association and has been a visiting scholar at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, July 24, 2010, “The Strategic Ramifications Of A US-Led Withdrawal from Afghanistan”, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The narco-terrorism of Eurasia has a minuscule . . . Black Sea Basin as a major policy issue.</span>

**U.S.-Russia relations key to solve everything**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Graham 8</span>__** <span style="color: black;"> [Thomas Graham, foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University. July 2008 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">What trends? Simply put, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the world has , , , building lasting security economic structures.</span>__




==GDS Round 5, Neg v. GBN ML== 


===Archipelago CP=== 


**TEXT: The United States federal government should reallocate its current presence in Afghanistan to selected noncontiguous model districts within the north of Afghanistan and invest in economic and political development in said districts.**

**Counterplan solves – model districts serve as a beacon of stability and undercut support for al Qaeda**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Khan 9</span></span> (Major Mehar Omar Khan, … .com/blog/2009/10/an-alternative-approach-for-af/)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Now what ‘can be’ done: … to the ‘throne of Kabul’. </span>

**And, counterinsurgency bad offense doesn’t apply – the counterplan overhauls our current strategy**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Khan 9</span></span> (Major Mehar Omar Khan, … .com/blog/2009/10/an-alternative-approach-for-af/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last three months … proposed ‘approach’ addresses this dilemma. </span>



==St. Mark's Round 1, Neg v. Kinkaid BB== 


===1NC North Korea Denuclearization Conditions CP=== 
**Troops can be used as a bargaining chip with North Korea – will pave the way for successful negotiations**

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (John, contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis, 6/23, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The vortex of Korean politics … eventually bring home its troops.</span>

**Conditioning solves a verifiable freeze – unilateral concessions fail but North Korea will say yes to this gesture of respect**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Roy 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Denny, Senior Research Fellow at the East-West Center, Feb 26, “Denuclearization Negotiations with North Korea Are Worth Pursuing”, http://www.eastwestcenter.org/fileadmin/stored/pdfs/apb050.pdf)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">North Korean policies frequently seem … toward <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a rapprochement and eventual denuclearization</span>.</span>

**The unconditional plan wrecks deterrence and causes war and proliferation**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cronin et al 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard P, Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS, 6/1/1994, CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” [[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]])</span>
While <span class="UnderlineChar">a U.S. withdrawal based on a credible … nuclear program towards weapons production.</span>



===2NC Says Yes=== 
**Perception of equivalency is the only way to get North Korea on board with broader policies – our evidence is comparative between unilateral withdrawal and withdrawal based around conditions**

Michael <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Shih</span></span> May 12 20<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, writer for WWS Ambassador Robert Hutchings, “A Method to the Madness: North Korean Negotiation Strategy in the Six – Party Talks” http://wws.princeton.edu/research/cases/shih-3-09.pdf
Second, <span class="UnderlineChar">North <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Korean strategy is … </span>to make the most of it.”</span>14

**North Korea will accept the offer but will pocket the plan’s unconditional concession**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cronin et al 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS (6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” [[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> OPTION 6: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">NEGOTIATED <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">REDUCTION OF</span> THE U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… </span>, and even increasing its demands.</span>

**North Korea says yes – failures of previous talks were our fault**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Roy 10</span></span> (Denny, Senior Research Fellow at the East-West Center, “Parsing Pyongyang's Strategy”, February, Informaworld)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to proponents of </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the … Korean normalisation would be negotiable</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.28</span></span>

**Even if North Korea refuses, we still solve – CP builds international support for new solutions**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz 5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” [[http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">It is currently unclear whether … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">not lead to a sustainable solution</span>

**We don’t need to win complete dismantlement – limited disarmament prevents a power shift in Asia while making North Korea feel secure and prevents South Korean and Japan nuclearization and Asian Prolif**
Doug <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span> 12/11/<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan “Kim's Atom Project” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11044

Washington should work with South … <span class="UnderlineChar">the spread of nuclear weapons.</span>


==St. Mark's Round 6, Neg v. Greenhill BS== 


===1NC JWTC PIC=== 
**Text: The Department of Defense should withdraw Marines from the following bases on the Prefecture of Okinawa:**

**Henoko Munitions Depot, Camp Schwab, Camp Hansen, Kin Red Beach Ground, Blue Beach Exercise Ground, Camp Cortney, White Beach Kadena Airfield, Camp Zukeran, Futenma Airbase, and Naha Port, excluding the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**

**Okinawa’s JWTC is the only jungle warfare training center in the world – key to contingency training**
Ryan D. <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Libbert</span></span>, Marine Corporal, 2-22-20<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">4</span></span></span>, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training,” Global Security, http://www.globalsecurity.org/ military/library/news/2004/02/ mil-040222-mcn01.htm

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marines serving on Okinawa take . . . basic skills to keep this place strong."</span>

**US jungle war training is key to fight drug trafficking in Colombia – solves regional instability and Latin American democracy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J. </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Comodeca</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> United States Army THE NEED FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANDEAN REGION’S COUNTER DRUG EFFORTS April 7,20</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accessed July 31, 2010 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/ GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc= GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415480</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The US must continue to use SOFs . . . </span>protecting democracy in the region today.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">And, Latin American democracies are key to prevent nuclear arms races and WMD exchange</span>**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Schulz 99</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0in;">(Donald E., Chairman of Poli Sci Department @ Cleveland University, “Security and Civil Military Relations in the New World Disorder: The Use of Armed Forces in the Americas – The United States and Latin America: A Stategic Perspective”, September, http://www.resdal.org/Archivo/dis-1.htm</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A second major interest is the . . . counternarcotics, and the combat of organized crime.</span>



==St. Mark's Octas, Neg v. GBN PP== 


===1NC Strategic Concept CP=== 


**TEXT: The United States federal government should adopt a negotiating position in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Strategic Concept that it should substantially reduce United States military presence in Incirlik.**

**Solves the aff and avoids START politics**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Sokov 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nikolai, Center for Nonproliferation Studies Senior Research Associate, 7/17, “Tactical (Substrategic) Nuclear Weapons,” [[http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">when the issue becomes … secured from potential terrorist threat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**NATO members are demanding that the US reduce its TNWs through the Strategic Conference – process is critical**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Kristensen 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hans, Federation of Atomic Scientists, 2/22/2010, "Nuclear Posture Review to Reduce Regional Role of Nuclear Weapons," [[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2010/02/nukemission.php]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The other part of the</span> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">by U.S. NATO Ambassador Ivo Daalder)</span>

**The US will abide by the results**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Sokov 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nikolai, Center for Nonproliferation Studies Senior Research Associate, 7/17, “Tactical (Substrategic) Nuclear Weapons,” [[http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. TNW in Europe. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">U.S. officials</span> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">they were withdrawn from Europe</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.23</span>

**CP is key to extended deterrence – allies conflate capabilities with resolve – CP de-links the two causing NATO to get on board for scraping TNWs without sparking a crisis of confidence**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Acton 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Carnegie Endowment Nonproliferation Program associate specializing in nonproliferation and disarmament, Physicist with experience in civilian nuclear industry and IAEA safeguards, former Kings College War Studies Science and Security Studies Centre Lecturer, Former Verification Research Training and Information Centre Science and Technology Researcher, UK-Norway Dialogue on Disarm Verification Participant, December, "Extended Deterrence and Communicating Resolve," [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=24653]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Demonstrating resolve will require . . . </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> a crisis of confidence among its allies.</span></span>

**Decline in extended deterrence causes global proliferation**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Record 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffrey, Prof. Strategy and Int’l. Security – U.S. Air Force’s Air War College and Former Professional Staff – Senate Armed Services Committee, Cato Policy Analysis #519, 7-8, “Nuclear Deterrence, Preventive War, and Counterproliferation”, 7-8, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa519.pdf]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The</span> success of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">NPT has been . . .</span> would then matter; allies, to protect themselves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”21 </span>

**The impact is global nuclear war**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, [[http://www-ee.stanford.edu/%7Ehellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html|http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Nuclear <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">proliferation</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - be it among nations . . .</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> easily escalate into a global nuclear war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===2NC Says Yes/Net Benefit Cards=== 


**Prefer our counterplan – it solves NATO cohesion – unilateral withdrawal destroys NATO**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">GSN 3/15</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2010 ["U.S. Carefully Considers Future of Nukes in Europe," http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_1209.php]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The Obama administration is proceeding . . . </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">NATO promise to safeguard their borders, AP reported.</span>


**The CP is key to get NATO on board and achieve consensus over the plan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Meier 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy Researcher, and Verification Research, Training and Information Centre (VERTIC) Arms Control and Disarmament Researcher, December 2009 [Oliver, "German Nuclear Stance Stirs Debate," http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_12/GermanNuclearStance, 2/28]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Many</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> observers </span><span class="UnderlineChar">have noted that the . . . states in the Balkans and further south,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” she said.</span>


**The CP builds consensus for the plan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Sokov 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Center for Nonproliferation Studies Senior Research Associate, 7/17/2009 [Nikolai, “Tactical (Substrategic) Nuclear Weapons,” http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf, 2/28]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">As the above analysis makes clear, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">. . . problem</span> that both sides find advantageous</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**US would remove TNWs as soon as allies are on board – the plan would undermine ally relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Burns 10</span></span>, AP staff writer, 3/14/2010 [Robert, "US cautious on removing nuclear arms from Europe,", 3/15]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hans M. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kristensen</span>, director of the Nuclear . . . tomorrow if this were just its own decision</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


**Turkey says yes – will be pressured by other NATO allies**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu, 1AC Author, 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25]]]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">NATO is revising its Strategic Concept</span>; the . . . w</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ithout undermining extended nuclear deterrence.</span>



===1NC Condition Russia CP=== 
**TEXT: The United States federal government should not substantially reduce United States military presence in Incirlik if and only if the Russian Federation does not agree to increase the transparency of its tactical nuclear arsenal, confine its tactical nuclear weapons to central storage facilities deep within its national territories, and eliminate a portion of its tactical nuclear weapons.**


**Withdrawing TNWs and negotiating an end to deployment solves – Russia will agree to transparency and centralization – spills over**
Podvig 10 (Pavel, physicist trained at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, works as a research associate at Stanford University's Center for International Security and Cooperation, 2/25, “What to do about tactical nuclear weapons”, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/pavel-podvig/what-to-do-about-tactical-nuclear-weapons)

I believe, however, that the task of dealing . . . holds strong against criticism from defense hawks, then it just might come together.

**None of their answers apply – Russia opposed simultaneous TNW elimination because of numerical disparities but would agree to the CP – leverage is key**
Sokov et al 10 – Nikolai, and William C. Potter, and Miles A. Pomper, February 2010, Survival, vol. 52 no. 1 pp. 75-96, informaworld

Since Russia has many more tactical warheads than the United . . . action is perpetuation of an untenable status quo.

**Asymmetric but reciprocal TNW reductions with Russia solve the case – and avoid the allies and deterrence DA’s**
Miller et al 10 – Franklin, and George Robertson, and Kori Schake “Germany Opens Pandora’s Box,” online

The agreement that brought Germany’s ruling parties into coalition in . . . the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

**Reciprocal Russian action on TNWs is essential to wider arms control efforts and prevents accidental launch**
Lambert and Miller 97 (Stephen P. Lambert and David A. Miller, INSS Occasional Paper, April, USAF, Center for Strategic Intelligence Research, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/OCP/ocp12.pdf)

While the motives of this group may be . . . and Russian national security interests.

**Extinction**
Mintz 1 (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch) 

Hair-trigger alert means this: The . . ., a nuclear war by checklist, by rote." 



==St. Mark's Quarters, Neg v. Gulliver AT== 


===1NC T Cards=== 
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**A. Police presence is the deployment of US police** </span>

Dobbins et al 3 –
RAND Corporation (James, “America's Role in Nation-Building: From Germany to Iraq”,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1753/MR1753.ch9.pdf]]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">INTERNATIONAL <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">POLICE PRESENCE</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> OVER … significant deployments of international police</span>

**substantial is 50%**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pallone 3</span></span> – US Congressional Representative (Text … .theorator.com/bills108/hr3189.html)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">`(7) SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION- </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The term `… </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the fourth sentence of section 602(3).' </span>

**B. Violation – you are small**

**We have a combined civilian and military police presence of about 1500**
Wilkes 8
[[http://www.dod.mil/dodgc/olc/docs/testWilkes080618.pdf]]
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Central Asia Bobby Wilkes Testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee of National Security and Foreign Affairs “Oversight of U.S. Efforts to Train and Equip Police and Enhance the Justice System in Afghanistan” June 18, 2008
CSTC-A, in conjunction with the … <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">900 military police mentors in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>

**The number expanded to 700 civilian police - they are not tasked to counternarcotics**
State Department 5/3/10
http://www.state.gov/p/inl/rls/fs/141486.htm
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">There are approximately 700 U.S. civilian police … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in 2008. $261 million was transferred in 2009. </span>

**Your aff is very small: 81 agents at best total in status quo**
LA times 7/20/9
[[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/jul/20/world/fg-dea-afghan20]]
In response, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the number of DEA agents</span> and analysts <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">in Afghanistan will rise</span> from 13 to 68 by September, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to 81 in 2010.</span>



===2NC T Cards=== 
**We have 400 trainers from US military for police training for the CTAG-p division alone**

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Clark 10</span>
[[http://www.defense.gov/Blog_files/Blog_assets/20100630_clark_transcript.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BLOGGERS ROUNDTABLE WITH COLONEL CHADWICK W. CLARK,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> DEPUTY COMMANDER FOR COMBINED TRAINING ADVISORY GROUP POLICE (CTAG-P),</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> VIA TELECONFERENCE FROM AFGHANISTAN SUBJECT: TRAINING SYSTEM FOR AFGHAN</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> NATIONAL POLICE (ANP) FORCE TIME: 10:30 A.M. EDT DATE: WEDNESDAY, JUNE</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> 30, 2010</span>
It does. Thank you very much . <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">. . looking at increasing that capacity</span>.

**Even if they’re understaffed, it still clocks in at around 1000**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">D</span>epartment <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">o</span>f <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">D</span>efesne <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Inspector General</span>, September <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">9</span>
[[http://www.dodig.mil/sar/SAR_Apr_Sept_09.pdf]]
As of May 2009, the Afghan . . . <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">police mentoring teams were filled.</span>

**We are increasing military police training**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">USA Today</span> 3/25/<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>
[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/afghanistan/2010-03-24-afghanistanpolice_N.htm]]
That kind of role requires a . . . <span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">has been growing</span>, </span>he says.

**We have a high number that is INCREASING – Gulliver is in the wrong direction on this**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">US Secretary of Defense 9/22</span>/10
[[http://www.politico.com/pdf/PPM182_101001_secdef.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MEMORANDUM </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">FOR </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE SENATE </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">AND </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">HOUSE </span><span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">ARMED </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">SERVICES</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">COMMITTEES</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">DATE: </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">September </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">22, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">SUBJECT: </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Recent </span><span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">Trip </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">to Afghanistan</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">We are redoubling our efforts</span> this fall . . . full responsibility for security over time.

**Substantial is quantitative – best** //**consensus**// **of //legal interpretation.// It needs a number**
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dratler 6</span>__
__Cyberlaw: Intellectual property in the digital millennium__
__Goodyear Professor of Intellectual Property Law, Emeritus, University of Akron__
__To the extent that this passage suggests . . . considerably higher than merely "not deminimis"124__


===1NC Politics Link=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Massive support for counternarcotics – plan drains capital**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-repeat: repeat;">Hwang 9</span> (Inyoung, Reporter at Medill News Service, 7/9, “Afghanistan: Is counternarcotics undermining counterinsurgency?”, [[@http://news.medill.northwestern.edu/washington/news.aspx?id=133849|http://news.medill. northwestern.edu/washington/ news.aspx?id=133849]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-repeat: repeat;">The Pentagon was at first opposed to </span> . . . security and assistance to these projects.</span>

===2NC Politics Link=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Plan sparks a political firestorm – counternarcotics is uncontroversial now – provides uniqueness for our links**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Teslik 6 (Lee Hudson, Writer for CFR, 4/6, “The Forgotten Drug War”, [[@http://www.cfr.org/publication/10373/forgotten_drug_war.html|http://www.cfr.org/ publication/10373/forgotten_ drug_war.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How has the drug war affected . . . <span style="background-repeat: repeat;">attention is probably a good thing."</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Congress likes counter-narcotics – has previously paid to support it**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-repeat: repeat;">Government Accountability Office 10</span> (investigative organization tasked with improving accountability of the federal government, April 30 2010, [[@http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10594r.pdf%20Accessed%209-21-10|http://www.gao.gov/new.items/ d10594r.pdf Accessed 9-21-10]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Department of Defense . . . from fiscal year 2005 through 2010.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Grassley supports CN – action is key to success.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grassley 9 (Charles, US Senator from Iowa and co-chairman of the Caucus on International Narcotics Control, 10/21, “Opening Statement of Senator Charles E. Grassley Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control Hearing on U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy in Afghanistan”, [[@http://drugcaucus.senate.gov/grassley-afghan-hearing-10-21-09.html|http://drugcaucus.senate.gov/ grassley-afghan-hearing-10-21- 09.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although <span style="background-repeat: repeat;">the drug trade in Afghanistan</span> . . . to reform our anti-money laundering laws.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Grassley is the crucial 67th vote in foreign treaty ratification- especially START**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deaton 10 (Paul Deaton is a political activist. “Augury in Iowa for 2010” [[@http://www.blogforiowa.com/blog/_archives/2010/1/1/4416833.html|http://www.blogforiowa.com/ blog/_archives/2010/1/1/ 4416833.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In ancient Rome, when a major undertaking . . . largely because of what Grassley does and says.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**And Grassley will horsetrade – empirics**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aviv 6 (Diana Aviv, President of the Foundation Center, August 2, 2006, “Independent Sector: Governance, Accountability, and the Charitable Sector”, [[@http://foundationcenter.org/pnd/newsmakers/nwsmkr_50th.jhtml?id=153000032|http://foundationcenter.org/ pnd/newsmakers/nwsmkr_50th. jhtml?id=153000032]])</span>

As you might imagine, that's no easy . . . or easily unless there is a major crisis.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Congress perceives counternarcotics and counterinsurgency is inextricably intertwined – even if they think it fails they don’t want to end it**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brands 9 Hal Brands, author of From Berlin to Baghdad: America's Search for Purpose in the Post-Cold War World. He is a defense analyst in Washington, D.C. [[@http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/item/2010/0103/book/book_brands_shooting.html|http://www.unc.edu/depts/ diplomat/item/2010/0103/book/ book_brands_shooting.html]] </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-repeat: repeat repeat;">As the war in Afghanistan has </span> . . . from government eradication campaigns.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Reversing policy on COIN is massively unpopular**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-repeat: repeat;">Biddle</span> 20<span style="background-repeat: repeat;">09</span> [Stephen, Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan” July-August, [[@http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617|http://www.the-american- interest.com/article.cfm? piece=617]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, <span style="background-repeat: repeat;">reversing policy</span> and disengaging <span style="background-repeat: repeat;">would </span> . . . <span style="background-repeat: repeat;">TV screens with nightmarish imagery</span>.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blake Round 4, Neg v. OPRF HH</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC Hiroshima K</span>=== 

**We lose any meaning to hiroshima when it’s deployed as a simple rallying cry. there’s a qualitative distinction between a call to action and the action process of mourning**
BOYER 98
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FALLOUT, P. SCAN Paul Boyer, a U.S. cultural and intellectual historian (Ph.D., Harvard University, 1966) is Merle Curti Professor of History Emeritus and former director (1993-2001) of the Institute for Research in the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He has held visiting professorships at UCLA, Northwestern University, and William & Mary; has received Guggenheim and Rockefeller Foundation Fellowships; and is an elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Society of American Historians, and the American Antiquarian Society. Before coming to Wisconsin in 1980, he taught at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst (1967-1980). He has lectured at some 90 colleges and universities in the United States, Western Europe, and Israel. He has appeared on programs on the Public Broadcasting System, National Public Radio, the Discovery Channel, the History Channel, the BBC, Canadian Broadcasting System, and others. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not only was the meaning of "Hiroshima" contested, . . . </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> be pressed, a high-voltage jolt to any discourse</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The alternative – reject their invocation of Hiroshima. We can embrace the aff, but reject using Hiroshima as a unit of comparison. The backwards glance to Hiroshima is a better expression of vulnerability than their call to action.**
PERLMAN 88
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMAGINAL MEMEORY AND THE PLACE OF HIROSHIMA Medical doctor, McLean Hospital, degree achieved, [[http://www.vitals.com/doctor/profile/1871561019|University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine]] Completed: 1965 </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">There is a unique value in remembrances of </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . . . inclusiveness. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">We are all within the bounds of the place of Hiroshima</span>. </span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**__2NC Cards__**</span>=== 

**localities da – universal concerns must bow to the particular to retain the meaning of hirsohima. that’s the only way to root our discourse in an individual place**
Foard 94
Asian Visions of Authority: Religion and the Modern States of East and Southeast Asia
Book by Charles F. Keyes, Laurel Kendall, Helen Hardacre; University of Hawaii Press, 1994. 366 pgs. 
Professor Department of Religious Studies Arizona State University Tempe, Arizona 85287-3401 (602) 965-2067 (602) 965-5139 (FAX) james. @asu.edu EDUCATION 1977 Stanford University, Ph.D., Religious Studies, Dissertation Title: Ippen Shonin and Popular Buddhism in Kamakura Japan. 1972 Stanford University, M.A., Religious Studies. 1970 College of Wooster, B.A., Religion. PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS Arizona State University, Associate Professor, Religious Studies Department, 1983-present. Hiroshima Shudo University, Visiting Professor, Department of Sociology, April, 1990 - March, 1991. Exchange Professor, Department of Sociology, Hiroshima Shudo University, March-August, 1989. Arizona State University, Assistant Professor, Religious Studies Department, January, 1977-1983. Stanford University, Visiting Associate Professor, Religious Studies Department, Winter - Spring, 1987. Tokyo University of Foreign Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for the Study of Asian and African Languages and Cultures, 1983. Tokyo University of Education, Lecturer, Faculty of Letters, Japan, 1975-1976. 

Conclusion: The Postmodernity of . . . there really this many kinds of religions?"


**Destroying place by mapping everything onto global projects results in nuclear extinction. the map of the activist reinforces the map of nuclear planners. that’s also a disad to the aff**
PERLMAN 88
IMAGINAL MEMEORY AND THE PLACE OF HIROSHIMA
Medical doctor, McLean Hospital, degree achieved, [[http://www.vitals.com/doctor/profile/1871561019|University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine]]
Completed: 1965

With this rhetoric in memory, let us return to . . . <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in preparations for nuclear annihilation.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**Turns case**</span>
LIFTON AND MITCHELL 95
Robert Jay Lifton (born [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/May_16|May 16]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1926|1926]]) is an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychiatrist|psychiatrist]] and author, chiefly known for his studies of the psychological causes and effects of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War|war]] and political violence and for his theory of thought reform. He was an early proponent of the techniques of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychohistory|psychohistory]].
HIROSHIMA IN AMERICA: 50 YEARS OF DENIAL, P. SCAN

Since Hiroshima, we have been captives . . . of total insecurity, as Lewis Mumford observed2'


**this played out representational strategy has bankrupted itself – only the backwards turn is intellectually meaningful**
FOARD 97
Imagining Nuclear Weapons: Hiroshima, Armageddon, and the Annihilation of the Students of Ichijo School Author(s): James H. Foard Source: Journal of the American Academy of Religion, Vol. 65, No. 1 (Spring, 1997), pp. 1-18 Published by: Oxford University Press Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1465816]]
Professor Department of Religious Studies Arizona State University Tempe, Arizona 85287-3401 (602) 965-2067 (602) 965-5139 (FAX) james. @asu.edu EDUCATION 1977 Stanford University, Ph.D., Religious Studies, Dissertation Title: Ippen Shonin and Popular Buddhism in Kamakura Japan. 1972 Stanford University, M.A., Religious Studies. 1970 College of Wooster, B.A., Religion. PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS Arizona State University, Associate Professor, Religious Studies Department, 1983-present. Hiroshima Shudo University, Visiting Professor, Department of Sociology, April, 1990 - March, 1991. Exchange Professor, Department of Sociology, Hiroshima Shudo University, March-August, 1989. Arizona State University, Assistant Professor, Religious Studies Department, January, 1977-1983. Stanford University, Visiting Associate Professor, Religious Studies Department, Winter - Spring, 1987. Tokyo University of Foreign Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for the Study of Asian and African Languages and Cultures, 1983. Tokyo University of Education, Lecturer, Faculty of Letters, Japan, 1975-1976. 

From virtually the moment that Americans . . . different possibilities for that reflection
==__Blake Octas, Neg v. Mountainbrook MQ__== 

===1NC Singer CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should do the following with regard to private military contractors:**
**Transition from a cost-plus contract model to a fixed-cost model.**
**Bar contracts for mission critical roles and any roles that require arms or the handling of ammunition.**
**Create a contract management system that incentivizes accountability through clear performance metrics and standards and reduces reliance on non-competitive contracts.**
**Increase the number of officers assigned to oversight and auditing of contracts and contractor performance, and create a reporting mechanism to identify contract abuses.**
**Begin using qui tam lawsuits against contractors who violate the terms of their contract, international human rights law, United States law, and/or the law where they are deployed.**
**Consult with contractors to discuss the most effective contract terms, and implement the results of that consultation.**
**Contractually mandate that all personnel be trained in the laws of war and human rights law.**
**Engage in efforts to establish standards and norms in international public law regarding the private military industry.**
**Ensure that contractors who are hired do not have criminal histories.**


**Reform solves resentment, terrorist armament, costs and dependency – but some outsourcing is crucial to prevent overstretch – this is their author**
**Singer 10** (Peter Warren Singer is Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institute. February 2010, “The Regulation of New Warfare”, http://www.thepolitic.org/articles/47/the-regulation-of-new-warfare)

Over the last several years, a drumbeat . . . we need to oversee and perform these services. 

**Overstretch kills heg**
**Layne 9** (Christopher Layne, PhD is Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer | Suo)

U.S. strategic retrenchment would enable . . . (New York: William Morrow, 1972).

===1NC Politics Link=== 
**B. Withdrawal of PMCs cost political capital**
**Singer 7** [Peter W. Singer, Director, 21st Century Defense Initiative, “Counterproductive,” http://www.afji.com/2007/11/3086404]

By comparison, the private military industry offered . . . percent of all American media stories on Iraq.

===2NC Politics Link=== 
**Contractors provide cover for unpopular political decisions- withdrawal destroys Obama’s cover**
**Singer 2007** [Peter W., former Prof. @ JFK School of Gov’t, formerly employed by the DoD, PhD – Harvard U, National Security Fellow and Director of the Project on U.S. Policy towards the Islamic World at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at The Brookings Institution, “Can't Win with 'Em, Can't Go to War Without 'Em: Six Questions for P.W. Singer,” September 30, http://www.brookings.edu/interviews/2007/0930iraq.aspx]

1. One of your first conclusions is . . . maybe it shouldn’t happen in the first place. 

**Contractors backlash**
Lendman ‘06
[Stephen, MBA from the Wharton School . . . _lost_war_part_ii]
Those wondering why the US engages in so . . . cost-overruns and then submitting fraudulent billings.

==__Blake Quarters, Neg v. Notre Dame TD__== 

===__Radical Ethnographies K__=== 


**radical ethnographies assertion of difference plays directly into the late capitalist dynamic – it is the ultimate expression of MULTICULTURALISM**
Jordan and Yeomans 95
Critical Ethnography: Problems in Contemporary Theory and Practice Author(s): Steven Jordan and David Yeomans Source: British Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol. 16, No. 3 (1995), pp. 389-408 Published by: Taylor & Francis, Ltd. Stable URL: <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1393266]]</span>
DAVID YEOMANS, Schoolo f Education,U niversityo f Leeds

There are other <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">problems with which a postmodern . . .</span></span> that postmodernism is in need of political economy.

**Multicultural politics precludes resistance to capitalism**
Vogt 9
Global Capitalism or Multiculturalism? No, Thanks!
Cultural Perspectives Journal for Literary and British Cultural Studies in Romania (Cultural Perspectives Journal for Literary and British Cultural Studies in Romania), issue: 14 / 2009, pages: 154177, on [[http://www.ceeol.com/|www.ceeol.com]].

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consequently, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">any politics based upon multicultural . . . </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and only in terms of identitarian issues. </span>

**Capitalist logic justifies hegemonic expansion promoting aggressive instability resulting in nuclear war, environmental destruction, and planetary collapse**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Foster</span></span>, Oregon University Department of Sociology Professor, <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">5</span></span> (John B., Monthly Review, [[http://www.monthlyreview.org/0905jbf.htm]], September, accessed 7/8/09, JD)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the longer view offered by a . . . </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> dangerous period in the history of imperialism.</span> </span>

**ALTERNATIVE – we will do the aff, but reject their claims to revive and improve it. It should be rejected entirely,**

**Anthropology is INDISSOCIABLY associated with colonial relations – the aff can’t ditch this ideological baggage**
Jordan and Yeomans 95
Critical Ethnography: Problems in Contemporary Theory and Practice Author(s): Steven Jordan and David Yeomans Source: British Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol. 16, No. 3 (1995), pp. 389-408 Published by: Taylor & Francis, Ltd. Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1393266]]
**DAVID YEOMANS, Schoolo f Education,U niversityo f Leeds**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This last point, the relation between anthropology . . . that could potentially act as methods of social regulation.</span>

===T Violation=== 
====1NC==== 

**A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blechman et al, 97</span></span> – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The highly … the requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2</span>

**A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act 92</span></span> (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION … <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">have been reassigned</span> </span>and moved to another installation.

**B. Violation - the plan removes 252 people – they are military**
(9 * 28 = 252) – 18% of our Presence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC News 7</span></span> (“US army enlists anthropologists”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7042090.stm)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is sending "mine-resistant, ambush-protected…</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">members</span>, including two social scientists</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


====2NC Numerical Evidence==== 

**<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are six 5-9 person human terrain teams in Afghanistan and 21 teams in Iraq that’s 200+ people out of all the hundreds of thousands of troops in both countries</span></span>**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kipp 10</span></span> (The Human Terrain, PHD at North Point Academy, second corporal in Afghanistan, Military Review) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The idea behind …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the concept proves successful.</span></span>


**<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US deploys 50,000 troops in the Republic in Iraq</span></span>**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 9/15</span></span> (“<span style="color: black;">Firefight involving US-Iraq forces leaves 6 dead”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Persistent attacks against …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> no Americans were hurt. </span>


**<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current force deployments in Afghanistan number at 94,000</span></span>**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Telegraph 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“US troops in Afghanistan surpass number in Iraq,” [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/afghanistan/7762893/US-troops-in-Afghanistan-surpass-number-in-Iraq.html]] 24 Mat 2010) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Troops are continuing </span>… 92,000 in Iraq.</span>

====2NC HTS = Military Presence==== 

**HTS is a part of the US military**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Army 10</span></span> (US army May 10 2010 “Human Terrain System ” [[http://humanterrainsystem.army.mil/]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Human Terrain System </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> enduring, socio-cultural knowledge base.</span>

**The HTS mission statement includes nothing about protecting civilians – even if you default to operational definitions, they still don’t meet**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Army 10</span></span> (US army May 10 2010 “Human Terrain System ” [[http://humanterrainsystem.army.mil/]])
<span class="UnderlineChar">Mission Statement: Recruit, train, … share socio-cultural institutional knowledge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**HTS personnel are military staff in a deployed brigade**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Army 10</span></span> (FAQs, [[http://humanterrainsystem.army.mil/htsFAQ.aspx|__http://humanterrainsystem.army.mil/htsFAQ.aspx__]] )
<span class="UnderlineChar">All HTS</span> deployable <span class="UnderlineChar">personnel train</span> …<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> of a deployed brigade.</span>

**No you don’t – Police is supervising and training of local police**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Serafino 4</span></span> (Nina M, Specialist in International Security Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division March 30, Policing in Peacekeeping and Related Stability Operations: Problems and Proposed Solutions http://www.fas.org/man/crs/RL32321.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International civilian police … CivPol mandates and activities.)</span>

**Only DEA and FBI can train**
<span style="tab-stops: 615.75pt;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Citizendium</span></span> 8/13/<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> “U.S. government training of foreign police” online Encyclopedia <http://en.citizendium.org/wiki/U.S._government_training_of_foreign_police> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the Foreign Assistance … entered into before enactment of the amendment.</span>
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT Functionality </span>==== 

**They don’t meet it- they have the function of combat troops**
LaPlante 2K10
(Matthew, military journalist for the Salt Lake Tribune- has covered military operations from Iraq, Kuwait, Turkey, Germany, and in Latin American Countries as well, “Critics see 'disaster' in Human Terrain System” February 21, 2010, pg online @ lexisnexisgreenhill-au)

"<span class="UnderlineChar">Human Terrain System social …</span> urging members to abstain.


==Pace RR Round 4, Neg v. GBN== 

===1NC Politics Link=== 
**Tactical nuclear weapon withdrawal is unpopular**
**Sokov 2009** [Nikolai, PhD, senior research assoc. @ James Martin Center for Non-proliferation Studies, Tactical Nuclear Weapons, German Leadership 6, Issue 4 http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf]

If some in the Obama administration support withdrawal . . . message, particularly among congressional Republicans is undeniable.

===2NC Politics Link=== 
**TNW removal controversial**
**Chossudovsky 6** [Michel, February 22, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Center for Research on Globalization, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032] 

Debate and discussion must also take place within . . . military actors in high office must be challenged.

**There’s powerful political opposition to TNW withdrawal—congressional commission opposes**
**Wood 9** [David, Staff, 7/8 Politics Daily http://www.politicsdaily.com/2009/07/08/tactical-nuclear-weapons-the-menace-no-one-is-talking-about]

"Russia enjoys a sizable numerical advantage. . . , but go easy in cutting its own.

===1NC Politics Impact=== 
**D. Korean war causes extinction**
**Hayes and Green 10** - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**

**The consequences of failing to address the proliferation . . . that warrants priority consideration from the international community.**

==**Barkley Forum Round 4 - Neg vs St Marks BM**== 

===1NC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should:**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Develop a comprehensive offer for North Korea that includes a peace treaty, diplomatic recognition, the end of sanctions, participation in international agencies, foreign aid, increased intra-Korean contacts, and discussion over future reunification in return for denuclearization**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Present the proposal to the People’s Republic of China, requesting its full backing**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Promise to aid in the care of refugees in the event of the collapse of North Korea**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Indicate that it is prepared to accept Chinese military action in North Korea**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Pledge not to take geopolitical advantage of the People’s Republic of China, clarifying that in the event of reunification the Mutual-Defense Treaty with South Korea would be terminated**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**- Privately indicate to the People’s Republic of China that it has no intention of remaining forever at nuclear risk in Northeast Asia**</span>
**The United States federal government should end its arms sales to Taiwan.**
**The United States Federal Government should initiate a Strategic Dialogue with the People’s Republic of China that is modeled after the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union, including emphasis on military to military contacts.**

**The counterplan solves Chinese cooperation – our evidence is from their author and is comparative**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow, 1AC Author, 12/7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10, (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute, “Zhongnanhai and the Dear Leader”, National Interest, [[http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/zhongnanhai-the-dear-leader-4526]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The only way to enlist Beijing’s . . </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the next big war.</span>

**Ending arms sales solves the aff – China will halt military cooperation if the current arms deal goes through**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Policy 9</span></span> <span class="CharChar8">(Foreign Policy Magazine. “Obama in no-win situation over Taiwan arms sale” 9-15-09. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="CharChar8">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/15/obama_in_no_win_situation_over_taiwan_arms_sale]]</span></span><span class="CharChar8">)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and . . </span>in July</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the sources said. </span>

**Ending arms sales solves everything – it’s the most important issue in US-Sino relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wenzhong 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2K4. Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States,” http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifth, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">an appropriate handling </span> . . even suffered setbacks from time to time. </span>

**Strategic dialogue prevents miscalc and down-turns in relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Manzo 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Research Assistant @ Center for Defense Information [Vince Manzo, “U.S. Policy Brief: The Need for a Strategic Dialogue with China,” Center for Defense Information, 2008, pg. www.cdi.org/pdfs/strategicdialoguepolicy.pdf] </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A strategic dialogue between the . . <span class="UnderlineChar">to </span>**reinforce the reality of deterrence**.</span>”32 

===2NC=== 
**Even if we don’t win a single of the above arguments, if we solve the relations part of the flow its enough to solve the whole aff –**
**Their advantage is backwards – US-China Relations are key to Korea not the other way around – means China will never help without a previous increase in relations.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Van der Putten 12/21</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frans-Paul is a research fellow with the Clingendael Institue in The Hague. He is co-editor, with Chu Shulong, of China, Europe and International Security: Interests, Roles, and Prospects, 2010, “Sino-US geopolitical rivalry does not help Korean stability”, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/21/sino-us-geopolitical-rivalry-does-not-help-korean-stability/) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The United States government believes China needs to . . . to result in a more stable Korean peninsula</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Ending arms sales solves everything – it’s the most important issue in US-Sino relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wenzhong 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2K4. Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States,” http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifth, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">an appropriate handling of the Taiwan . . . </span>and even suffered setbacks from time to time. </span>

**Refusing to address Taiwan arms sales gives China political leverage, making future cooperation impossible, and allowing China to just pocket concessions like the plan without reciprocation**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bush 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, Director Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, “At Cross-Purposes: US-Taiwan Relations Since 1942,” p.168</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, this whole paragraph seems unnecessary to . . . </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">useful text without Washington's getting anything in return.</span></span>
Strategic dialogue solves all of the chinese perception and containment arguments. It gets to china to trust the US military and prevents chinese miscalculation in regards to US troops in East Asia.

**The atmospherics of the CP solves better --- military technical focus of the plan is ineffective**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Gill 2</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior fellow in foreign policy studies and director of the Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies @ Brookings Institution [Bates Gill, “Can China's Tolerance Last?,” Arms Control Today > January/February 2002, pg. http://www.armscontrol.org/print/976]</span>
<span class="7TimesNewRoman"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third,</span></span> <span class="UnderlineChar">China hoped</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">it would be . . . </span><span class="7TimesNewRoman"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">appears Beijing has been reassured on these points.</span></span>


**Security Dialogue solves misperception**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Swaine & Pei 2</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Associates @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Michael Swaine (Codirector of the China Program) and Minxin Pei Swaine (Codirector of the China Program) “Rebalancing United States–China Relations,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Policy Brief 13, February 2002]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fourth, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the U</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and China should . . . </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">soon as possible. Pg. 7-8 </span>


**Strategic Dialogue solves**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Saunders 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Research Fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies @ National Defense University [Phillip C. Saunders “Increasing Strategic Trust between the United States and China in the Political, Diplomatic and Security Realms,” National Committee on US-China Relations, Background Paper for the National Committee on US-China Relations conference “China, the United States and the Emerging Global Agenda,” July 13-15, 2008 at the Wye River Conference Center] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One way to manage U.S.-. . . expectations about their ultimate impact. Pg. 6 </span>



=**Generics__**= 

===**NMS CP**=== 




Text: The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that _ is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States.
Observation one is competition –

a.) the CP doesn’t mandate the plan. It issues a recommendation that results in policy change.

Observation Two is Solvency

a. NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meinhart 8</span></span> (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense … ?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) <span style="font-size: 9pt;">To meet these challenges, the … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and ambiguous global security environment</span>.**




b. NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Riley 94</span></span> (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United … ?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522) Should not <span class="UnderlineChar">the National Military … </span>20 years from now begins today.**
===**Security K**=== 







A. Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats produces securitization
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span> (David, Masters in Political … ,’ Center for United States Studies) <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices … conditions of existence are generated18.</span>**



B. Security discourse causes endless apocalypse in the name of survival
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 1</span></span> (Peter Coviello, Asst Prof … , Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics) <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to claim that … can scarcely be done without.</span>**



C. Vote neg to open up the space necessary for emancipation from endless securitization**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span></span> (Mark, Professor of the … Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The only way out of … enough to return the gift."' </span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]