=<span style="font-size: 14px;">September-October</span>= 

RR = Round Robin
GH = Greenhill

==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Affirmative</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Round 2RR, 4RR, and 5RR 4GH: </span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">EVALUATE VIRTUE OF POSSESSION</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 27px;"> <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 19px;">CALLAHAN</span><span style="font-size: 14px;">, PhD. Director, International Program, Senior Fellow at the Harvard Medical School. 1973</span>__<span style="font-size: 14px;">. The Tyranny of Survival</span>__<span style="font-size: 14px;">.</span></span>
=<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">"On the other hand, the dangers of too simple ... are you not on a slippery slope to rationalizing anything?"</span>= 


<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">OBSERVATION: IF A DISARMAMENT SCENARIO IS NECESSARY, I WILL DEFEND GENERAL STEPS OUTLINED BY GLOBAL ZERO.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">VALUE: MORALITY</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Mack, Eric. (associate professor of philosophy at Tulane University,) “In Defense of 'Unbridled' Freedom of Contract,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 14px;">American Journal of Economics and Sociology</span>//<span style="font-size: 14px;">, Vol. 40, No. 1 (Jan., 1981), pp. 1-15</span>**</span></span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in; text-decoration: none;">"The moral philosophical perspective from...as means for one's own purposes."</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 19px;">FURTHER, THIS STATUS DEMANDS MORAL CONSTRAINTS ON ACTIONS</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal;">Thomas Hill, Jr. “Self-regarding suicide: A modified Kantian view,” in </span>//<span style="font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal;">Autonomy and Self-Respect</span>//<span style="font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal;">, Cambridge University Press, 1991, 102-103.</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal;">"The second argument is roughly this: ... must be valued for their own sakes."</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14px;">VC: RESPECTING THE INVIOLABILE STATUS OF PEOPLE</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 14px;">Farrell, Daniel M. </span>__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Immoral Intentions</span>__ //<span style="font-size: 14px;">Ethics</span>//<span style="font-size: 14px;"> 1992 p.275.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px;">"What is also true, however, and much more important... manages to do the wrong that she was about to do."</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">I CONTEND THAT THE POSSESSION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS DISRESPECTS THE INVIOLABILITY OF PEOPLE.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">David J. Karl, "Proliferation Pessimism and Emerging Nuclear Powers," International Security, Vol. 21, No. 3. (Winter, 1996-1997), pp. 87-119</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">"Fearful of the prospect of nuclear engagement... useless to attempt to conquer because you will be severely punished."</span>


<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">THERE IS NO DISTINCTION BETWEEN NUCLEAR DETERRENCE AND HOLDING PEOPLE HOSTAGE.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal;">The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences Author(s): Steven Lee Source: Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 549-566 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381037 Accessed: 06/07/2009 00:35</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in;">"First, the vast majority of persons bejustified even though there is no consent."</span>


<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Round 2GH 5GH:</span>

<span style="line-height: 21px;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="line-height: 21px;">VC: Adhering to explicit contractual agreements</span>

<span style="line-height: 21px;">Thesis:</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">THE NPT REQUIRES EVENTUAL DISARMAMENT</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">FIRST, IS THE SCENARIO</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; text-decoration: none;">Sebastian Elsbach .EUV Frankfurt/Oder. 15-05-2008 Viadrina Model United Nations 2008 The delegation of China: Sven Harthun. </span><span style="color: #000080; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; text-decoration: none;">http://viamun.files.wordpress.com/2009/03/hand08_01.pdf</span></span>
"<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; line-height: 24px;">__The NNPT's preamble contains language...__</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; line-height: 12px;">under strict and effective international control."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 12px;">THE GOAL OF DISARMAMENT WERE REAFFIRMED IN A TREATY REVIEW CONFERENCE</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;">Nuclear Disarmament versus Nuclear Revolution: Options for India. S Sasikumar. June 15, 2010. http://www.idsa.in/idsacomments/NuclearDisarmamentversusNuclearRevolutionOptionsforIndia_ssasikumar_150610</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">“</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;">The 2010 Nuclear Non Proliferation...</span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">transparency in nuclear weapons reduction initiatives.”</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px;">SECOND IS THE ADVANTAGE</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;">Nuclear Disarmament versus Nuclear Revolution: Options for India. S Sasikumar. June 15, 2010. http://www.idsa.in/idsacomments/NuclearDisarmamentversusNuclearRevolutionOptionsforIndia_ssasikumar_150610</span>
<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">“</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;">The Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty...</span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">perfection among conflicting units.”</span>


<span style="color: #000000; display: inline; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;"> THIRD IS THE METHOD.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; display: inline; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;"> US COMPLIANCE WITH THE NPT INDICATE THAT DISARMAMENT IS HIGHLY LIKELY</span>
<span style="color: #000000; display: inline; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;"> [Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control] U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE. Bureau of Arms Control. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Washington, D.C. Arms Control Association. Thursday, February 3, 2005. http://www.acronym.org.uk/docs/0502/doc13.htm</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">“</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px;">The result has been an impressive...</span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">least 8,000 nuclear weapons.”</span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">DISARMAMENT WILL LEAD TO ULTIMATE DETERRENCE AS THIS IS ITS INTENTIONS.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"> [Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control] U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE. Bureau of Arms Control. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Washington, D.C. Arms Control Association. Thursday, February 3, 2005. http://www.acronym.org.uk/docs/0502/doc13.htm</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">“</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">The premise of this new...</span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">developing advanced conventional weapons programs.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">US AND RUSSIAN INVESTMENT IN THE NPT HAS LED TO A SET OF IRREVERSIBLE REDUCTIONS AND NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">[Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control] U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE. Bureau of Arms Control. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Washington, D.C. Arms Control Association. Thursday, February 3, 2005. http://www.acronym.org.uk/docs/0502/doc13.htm</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">"</span><span style="color: #000000; display: inline !important; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The totality of this work represents an enormous...</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">27 plutonium production reactors.”</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">MISCALCULATED LAUNCH CAUSES US-RUSSIA WAR AND EXTINCTION</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 0.21in; margin-bottom: 0.18in; margin-left: 0.01in; margin-right: 0.03in;">Helfand and Pastore 4/2—2009, Ira, John, past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, Take All Nukes Off Ready Alert Status. http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html</span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: inline !important; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 0.21in; margin-bottom: 0.18in; margin-left: 0.01in; margin-right: 0.03in;">"</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 20px;"><span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">Since the end of the Cold War...our own would become extinct</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">"</span></span>






Negative


<span style="font-size: 14px;"> **Round 1RR**</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;"> Bioweapons DA</span>

BIOWEAPONS APPEAL TO OUR ENEMIES
Stansfield Turner, former head of the CIA and senior military commander. "Caging the Genie". 1999. P. 28.
"The appeal of biological weapons...in theory, not actual demonstration"

TERRORISTS ARE HIGHLY MOTIVATED TO ACQUIRE BIOWEAPONS
Jessica Turner [adjunct fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations], Harvard International Review. Spring 2001. p. 84.
"Several highly publicized incidents have...equipment, resulting in relatively few casualties".

<span style="font-size: 14px;"> Disarmament DA</span>

Disarmament increases risks of accidental launch through rearming races
Charles L. Glaser, Associate Professor at the University of Chicago, Survival, Spring 1998)
"It is also possible that disarmament...be created under current political conditions"

<span style="font-size: 14px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">On case response card:</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">THE POSSESSION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED AS AN INALIENABLE RIGHT THAT ALL COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD, DESERVE.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Hecht, Gabrielle. [Associate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. Author of The Radiance of France: Nuclear Power and National Identity after World War II] "Nuclear Ontologies. Constellations Volume 13. 2006.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-size: 14px;">"In an effort to accommodate...deny that claim outright."</span>__</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Round 3RR:</span>**</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Wanna know something interesting? In the last decade, only TWO African American debaters have attended the TOC. Jeremy Dudley of Mayde Creek and Jalon Alexander of Bodine High. Correct me if I'm wrong.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Charles Mills, a professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois writes in his book the Racial Contract in 1997</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14px;">"Thus in effect, on matters...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14px;">Calibans and Tontos, Man Fridays and Sambos."</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Charles Mills, a professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois writes in his book the Racial Contract in 1997</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12px; font: normal normal normal 11px/normal 'Times New Roman';">**"Finally,** </span>__**the norming**__ __**of the individual ...** **pitted against ugly and dark races."**__</span>

<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;"> WHITE AESTHETIC AN INVISIBLE UNNAMED SYSTEM THAT HAS MADE THE MODERN WORLD WHAT IT IS TODAY</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 8px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Charles Mills, a professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois writes in his book the Racial Contract in 1997</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px; line-height: normal;">__**"White supremacy is the ...** **to see as political, are highlighted**__**."**</span>

<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">HOW WHITENESS IS PROPS UP IN THIS ACTIVITY</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Wise, Tim 2005, Race relations specialist, activist, and orator, “White Like Me” Soft skull press.</span>
"I say that this process is white...purpose -- the Nazis would win"

<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">AND CLAIMS OF FAIRNESS, PREDICTABILITY AND OBJECTIVITY ARE WAYS TO SILENCE OUR VOICES, THUS INCREASING OPPRESSION</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Delgado, Richard. “Shadowboxing: An Essay On Power,” In Cornell Law Review, May 1992. Text.</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 5.0px 0.0px 5.0px 0.0px;"><span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 10px/normal 'Times New Roman';">"Yet society and law accept only... in order to judge our own acts.</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> "</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">WHY WE MUST CHANGE THE SYSTEM</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12px; font: normal normal normal 9px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">[Larry Neal former philosopher and author in the Black Arts Movement, wrote in the Drama Review in 1968]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">“The Western (white) aesthetic has ... is a whole new system of ideas.”</span>**

**<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">FRAMEWORK IS ADVANCING A PRACTICE THAT LIBERATES THE OPPRESSED.</span>**

<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">THESE WOULD BE SOME INTRODUCTORY VISIONS OF DEBATE</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">William Spanos in Joe Millers’ book Cross-ex (pg. 467).</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">__"I am very much aware that the arrogant,.. a revolution in the debate world must occur."__</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14px;">**Round 6RR:**</span>

<span style="font-style: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">COGNITIVISM ARE ABOUT CLAIMS OF MORAL STATEMENTS THAT ARE LOGICAL TRUTH PROPOSITIONS</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-style: normal;">Geoffrey Sayre-McCord UNC/Chapel Hill, 2005, Moral Realism.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-style: normal;">"Moreover, realists point out, moral language...and linguistic account of moral language"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 24px; margin-bottom: 0in;">MORAL STATEMENTS ARE FALSE BECAUSE THERE ARE VARIATIONS OF MORAL CODES RELATIVE TO DISTINCT CULTURES</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">J.L. </span>Mackie, //Ethics inventing right and wrong//, 1977. Text.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in;">"The argument from relativity has... seriously inadequate and badly distorted, of objective values"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px; margin-bottom: 0in;">HUMANS DO NOT HAVE THE MORAL FACULTY TO KNOW OBJECTIVE MORAL TRUTHS</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">J.L. </span>Mackie, //Ethics inventing right and wrong//, 1977. Text.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14px;">"</span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 16px;">Even more important, however, and certainly more...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px;">headed objectivist is compelled to resort."</span></span>

NEW LEGISLATION PASSED IN INDIA
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14px;">Real Clear World. </span><span style="color: #000000; line-height: 24px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px;">http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/09/01/indias_flawed_nuclear_policy_99154.html </span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 14px;">Sep 1, 2010. Web.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000;"> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 14px;">"U.S. policymakers and industrial ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 14px;"> i</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px; text-decoration: none;">n the unlikely event of a nuclear accident."</span></span></span>
PAKISTAN-CHINA RELATIONS SCARE INDIA
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">June 28, 2010. “India Is Afraid of China” MD Nalapat, The National</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #343434; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14px;">"India has given sanctuary to the Dalai... nuclear trade with India."</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #343434; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14px;">PAKISTANI NUKES ARE SECURE</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #343434; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14px;"><span style="color: #3b3b3b;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scoblete, Greg. "Pakistan's Nukes Secure?". </span><span style="color: #535353; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">F</span></span><span style="color: #07123a; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-style: normal;">EBRUARY 27, 2009. http://www.realclearworld.com/blog/2009/02/pakistans_nukes_secure.html</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif;">"With Pakistan's political instability...nice if the nukes were secure because the state."</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14px;">Round 7RR and 1 and 6GH:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> V: Morality
VC:Maintaining equal treatment of all</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"> THE POSSESSION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED AS AN INALIENABLE RIGHT THAT ALL COUNTRIES,</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hecht, Gabrielle. [Associate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. Author of The Radiance of France: Nuclear Power and National Identity after World War II] "Nuclear Ontologies. Constellations Volume 13. 2006.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"> __<span style="font-size: 14px;">"In an effort to accommodate...deny that claim outright."</span>__</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"> </span>
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Round 3GH:**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Uncarded overview**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> 1) THE AFFIRMATIVE IS BOUND TO SHOW HOW DISARMAMENT WILL OCCUR OR THAT DISARMAMENT IS A FEASIBLE OPTION.<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2) TERRORISTS MAY POSSESS NUKES</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
=<span style="font-size: 14px;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-size: 14px;">January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-size: 14px;">March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 14px;">Negative</span>==