[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="display: block; padding: 0in;"> </span>
==<span style="border: medium none; padding: 0in;">Critical Afghanistan AFF</span>== 
**Thus the plan – The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from Afghanistan.**

===**Contention 1 – The discourse of the war**=== 
**The War in Afghanistan is constructed on the myth of heroism destroying the humanitarian mission and constructing social binaries**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> “When we read the history books </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, normal and thus are potentially destructive mechanisms.</span></span>

**This constructs endless war – we will always find an enemy**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Several problematic elements repeatedly appear in </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Western narratives</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">masquarading as the leitmotiv for universal safety</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.81</span></span>

**This discourse spills over – the soldiers are taught to become sociopaths that disregard basic right**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Barry 2011</span></span> [ Kathleen, “Unmaking War, Remaking Men: How Empathy Can Reshape Our Politics, Our Soldiers, and Ourselves” Phoenix Rising Press of Santa Rosa, Kindle Edition, Locations 2047-75] </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In war and under occupation, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">resistance is </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">frightening mayhem that Iraq became to its people.</span></span>
=== === 

===Contention 2 – Afghan Women=== 

**The mission is framed to save afghan women – this is a false call that uses feminism as a justification for imperialism**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Butler 2008</span></span> [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given that Afghanistan is one of the most </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">power to name</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (CW4WAfghan 2008c:1).</span></span>

**This discourse needs to be separated from imperialist discourse – any combination re-entrenches support for the imperialist mindset**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Butler 2008</span></span> [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Krista Hunt points out, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">embedded <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">feminism</span> </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rejuvenating Orientalism as a neo-imperialist discourse.</span></span>

**US presence is at fault**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 21pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">**A. History** </span>
Ralph <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Lopez</span></span> August 14, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">10</span></span> – Founder of Jobs for Afghanistan and activist (“The Real Story Behind Time's Afghan Woman Cover: American Complicity”, [[http://www.pdamerica.org/articles/news/2010-08-14-09-52-59-news.php]], Progressive Democrats of America) 
<span style="text-align: justify;">There has been much discussion, as well </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">AND </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 21pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">to give the Russians "their own Vietnam."</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 21pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">**B. Statistics** </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Turse</span></span>, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">fellow at Harvard University 9/13</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">2010</span></span> [Nick, “How Much "Success" Can Afghans Stand?” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/nick-turse/how-much-success-can-afgh_b_714957.html]]] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">In his 2002 State of the Union address</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and 40 </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">are suffering from “severe depression.</span></span></span>

**Don’t believe their turns – the US role in structural violence is masked by shifting blame – history proves**
Kevin <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Ayotte and</span></span> Mary <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Hussain ‘5</span></span> – 
/17.3ayotte.pdf>, Ebsco)
<span style="text-align: justify;">__Women in Afghanistan were subjected to structural violence__ </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__AND__ </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__insecurity <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">of structural violence against women</span> in Afghanistan.__</span>

**The language surrounding the war frames women as lifeless ghosts killing value to life**
Kevin <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Ayotte</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> and</span> Mary <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Hussain ‘5</span></span> – Assistant Prof. Comm.@ CSU And Lecturer in Comm. (“Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, NWSA, 17(3), Fall, < http://130.102.44.247/login?uri=/journals/nwsa_journal/v017/17.3ayotte.pdf>, Ebsco)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">many U</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.S. discourses </span>__</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__AND__ </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__with these representations in the first place.__</span>

**Our call to withdraw troops from Afghanistan separates the orientalist mindset from feminism**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Butler 2008</span></span> [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">In the first component of the program, </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, empowering some at the expense of others.</span></span>

===Contention 3 – deconstructing the narrative=== 
**Challenging justifications for presence in Afghanistan is key – the dogmatic motives for war have silenced public debate over the desirability of war**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cloud ‘4</span>** (Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Scholars should understand the workings of images during </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of shared humanity, solidarity, and peace. </span></span>

**The aff is a pragmatic approach to shifting the military paradigm – this ends the alienation of the other.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ivie ‘7</span>** (Robert, Prof. Comm. And Culture. – U. Indiana Bloomington, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, “Fighting Terror by Rite of Redemption and Reconciliation”, 10(2), Project Muse)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most notably, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">rhetorical cycling between the </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of adversaries and deifying rituals of redemptive violence.</span></span>

**Questioning the policy agendas of imperial myths comes first – we need to acknowledge that historical truth is not real**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">We need to navigate </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">critically and </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">cautiously through </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">who is benefiting </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and who is being disappeared</span>?</span></span>

**US presence in Afghanistan is at the root of the war narrative’s construction – mission to save women and dehistoricization**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">(</span>Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Old </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">colonial <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">narratives</span> of have <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">re-surfaced </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ties between the Taliban and radical Islamic groups.</span></span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]