[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Don't git it? [[mailto:mollyoconnor25@gmail.com|mollyoconnor25@gmail.com]] (to be honest, I don't get it either)
=1AC- Ohio Valley= 
=<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan </span>__</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> 1AC- Adv 1</span>**</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> The Iran Conundrum </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The United States</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> apparently </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">has … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the consequences would be unacceptable. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Iranians signaled last week … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">they can wait no longer.</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**And, US-Iran war is on the** **brink now. Previous war rhetoric should be ignored, we must evaluate this instance in a vacuum.** </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**Friedman** **–** 10 American political scientist and … confirm nor deny that possibility. </span></span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable – this closes the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, skyrocketing oil prices and killing the world economy </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iran’s problem becomes clear when … </span>__interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, Rising oil prices destroy the economy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Whipple 7/14/2010** (Tom, one of the most highly respected analysts of peak oil issues in the United States. Retired 30-year CIA analyst who has been following the peak oil story since 1999, Editor of the daily Peak Oil News and the weekly Peak Oil Review, The Peak Oil Crisis: A Mid-Year Review, FNCP.com, http://www.fcnp.com/commentary/national/6896-the-peak-oil-crisis-a-mid-year-review.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Interestingly, </span>__six in ten surveyed …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the proximity of the crisis. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Mead 9</span>**</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, </span>[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">If current market turmoil seriously … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">may</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> still </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">have to fight</span>____.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran – plan forces US to redefine issue away from nuclear program </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">As long as the problem … </span>____has elements friendly toward Iran.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Historically, regional stability depended on the Iraqi-Iranian balance of power. When it tottered in 1990, the result was the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. The United States did not push into Iraq in 1991 because it did not want to upset the regional balance of power by creating a vacuum in Iraq. Rather, U.S. strategy was to re-establish the Iranian-Iraqi balance of power to the greatest extent possible, as the alternative was basing large numbers of U.S. troops in the region. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The decision to invade Iraq … </span>__, it is doing just this.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US focus on the nuclear issue ensures current talks about Iraq fail. Iran is committed and wants to negotiate – only redefinition of US view of Iran ensures success </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**STRATFOR – 1O** <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “Ahmadinejad Reaches Out to Washington”; September 23, 2010, </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/geopolitical_diary/20100922_ahmadinejad_reaches_out_washington]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) CJC </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">While in New York for … </span>__to negotiate with one voice.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Withdrawal from Iraq solves and avoids conflict. The US must engage Iran and push for a relationship, accepting their nuclear weapons and giving them influence in Iraq. This can only be done with a withdraw of US troops from Iraq. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Consider the American interest</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. First</span>__, …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">eliminate Iranian influence in Iraq. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Current US views mean that Iran will reject their proposal. The existence of threats and sanctions in the negotiations ruins them. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**STRATFOR – 1O**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence … <span class="Underline">__)__</span></span>__<span class="Underline"> CJC<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Iran believes in diplomacy, but imposing sanctions or threats cannot allow diplomacy to bear results, Iranian President</span> Mahmoud <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Ahmadinejad said</span> after delivering his speech to the U.N. General Assembly, IRNA reported Sept. 24. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The time for threats and sanctions is gone and dialogue is the only solution to problems, he said. As long as the United States considers its position higher than others and above the law, negotiations cannot produce any result, he stated.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span></span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> 1AC- Adv 2</span>= 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We'll make it rain </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—Maliki Has One Month to Form and Government and a Full Cabinet But It Won’t Last That Long </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Arraf 10** (Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… no commitment to it</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**BBC 10** (British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest developments in the … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the Syrian and Iraqi people</span>.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD (Reuters) -</span>**__Frequent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">dust storms … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">daily food," the farmer said. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraqis are calling on their … in terms of water rights</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Conflict between Iraq, Syria, and Turkey over water is coming now. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**Langer – 09** (Andrew Langer is a 2009 graduate … ) CJC </span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1995, World Bank Vice President Ismail Serageldin famously prophesied the following: “If the wars of this century were fought over oil, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the wars of the next century will be fought over water</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” Since the middle of the twentieth century, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">disagreements between</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Republic of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Turkey</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Syria</span>n<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arab Republic, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Republic of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraqover the usage of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers have been frequent</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">This conflict over water will likely escalate by 2025</span>, when Turkey<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—the nation in which the sources of both rivers are located—</span>will suffer from water shortages of its own<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">This could lead to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">protests and low-level conflict among the citizens of the respective nations and even to </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a full-scale war between Turkey, Syria, and Iraq</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Syria</span>, whose relations with Turkey are considerably strained, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">may seek to mobilize the Kurds</span> of Turkey <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">against the Turkish Government</span>, citing the destruction of the Kurdish territory as an appropriate cause for an uprising<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The mobilization of the Kurds would give Syria a powerful hand in a potential conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">by turning a sizeable minority population against its own government. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">This future shortage of water</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—in conjunction with Turkey’s pro-Western and pro-Israeli ideals, seen as early as 1948, when Turkey was the first Arab nation to recognize the State of Israel—</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">suggests that there is a high likelihood that a war among the three nations will occur</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Classical realism can be used to frame the looming Euphrates-Tigris conflict, specifically considering Thucydides’ belief that “the strong [Turkey] do what they have the power to do and the weak [Syria, Iraq] accept what they have to accept” (Doyle 83). Though states in the Middle East have always faced water shortages, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the decrease in water availability as the populations of Turkey, Syria and Iraq grow makes the probability of war among the three nations increasingly high</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, Turkey must keep its riparian neighbors in mind when making policy decisions in order to avoid the militaristic balancing that could be exhibited by Syria and Iraq. </span></span></span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, MIDDLE EAST WAR WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL NUCLEAR CONFLAGRATION. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steinbach</span>, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">02</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://wagingpeace.org/articles%20/0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm|http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">conflict could trigger a world conflagration."</span>__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Finally, Middle East war destroys all life on the planet.**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Hirsch 06**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Professor of physics @ University … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Earth, comes to an end</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Jansen 11/3** (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though … ) CJC </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious politics and withdrawal of the U.S. troops continue to nourish international skepticism on Iraq's chances for stability, but </span>according to an Iraqi official<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, prospects for the war-ravaged country aren't all that gloomy. "</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraq is ready for the withdrawal, ... it will help create stability</span>," Hamid Al-Bayati, ambassador of Iraq to the United Nations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, told Xinhua </span>in a recent interview. Delays in forming a government as a result of indecisive parliamentary elections held in the country<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in March 2010 </span>only proves that "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraqis are independent of foreign influence</span>," Al- Bayati said. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>Iraqis listen to everybody in the region, but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">they are taking decisions themselves," he said</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The drawdawn of the U.S. forces in Iraq will "deprive terrorists, al-Qaeda and the remnants of former Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein from their pretext that Iraq is occupied by American forces</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the Iraqi ambassador said, and he voiced his support for the timetable agreed upon by the two countries that is linked to ending the American combat mission. The first style offensive policy that Saddam utilized against neighboring countries "took us nowhere," Al-Bayati said, and urged to solve the problems in the region through peaceful means and negotiations rather than a war. Retracting U.S. forces in Iraq doesn't imply relations with the States are on the back burner, Al-Bayati explained. "The majority of the Iraqi leaders believe we should have long term strategic relationships with the U.S.," he said, and referred to a strategic framework agreement affirming relations, friendship and cooperation between the U.S. and Iraq which was signed by the Iraqi government in 2008. "Iraq and the U.S. are going to be a strong alliance for the future," the Iraqi ambassador said. </span>Earlier this month,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shiite </span>Iraqi Prime Minister<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nouri </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">al-Maliki went on a journey to neighboring Iran, Egypt, Syria and Turkey to rally political support and bolster economic relations</span>. The trade balance between Turkey and Iraq currently equals 7 to 8 million U.S. dollars a year. Iraq wants this to climb to 20 million U.S. dollars a year and further boost its partnership with Turkey, Al-Bayati said<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Addressing a news conference in Egyptian capital Cairo, the visiting Iraqi prime minister encouraged Egyptian companies to get more involved in reconstructing Iraq. </span>Iran currently holds the position of being Iraq's biggest trading partner,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">having a trade balance that is now 10 times bigger than in 2003. </span>Trade revenues <span style="font-size: 8pt;">peaked at four billion U.S. dollars in 2009 and </span>are expected to double this at the end of this year<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, reports said. It is reported that the </span>Al-Malaki is offering Arab states investment deals if they nudge his rival<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, </span>toward accepting his leadership. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Allawi's Sunni- backed, secular-Shiite coalition called Iraqiya topped Al-Maliki's Shiite State of Law bloc by two seats in the election. No alliance captured enough seats to form a new government though.</span> </span> </span>__</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>
=1AC- Glenbrooks= 
====<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan </span>__</span>==== 
==== ==== 


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify. </span>**</span>


====<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1AC – Adv 1 </span>__</span>==== 
==== ==== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage One: The Iran Conundrum </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The United States</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> apparently </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">has … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the consequences would be unacceptable. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Iranians signaled last week … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">they can wait no longer.</span>__ </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran’s problem becomes clear when … </span>__interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.__ </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">As long as the problem … </span>____has elements friendly toward Iran.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Historically, regional stability depended on the Iraqi-Iranian balance of power. When it tottered in 1990, the result was the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. The United States did not push into Iraq in 1991 because it did not want to upset the regional balance of power by creating a vacuum in Iraq. Rather, U.S. strategy was to re-establish the Iranian-Iraqi balance of power to the greatest extent possible, as the alternative was basing large numbers of U.S. troops in the region. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decision to invade Iraq … </span>__, it is doing just this.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Iran Nuclear Talks Will Happen December 5th, US dealings in Iraq is the lynchpin to successful talks </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**AFP 11/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Assad Abboud, 11/14/10, " Foreign influence behind Iraq power-sharing pact: analysts ", http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i9iv67og5U5GGc5vyOlyt15s2-gg?docId=CNG.abcbb510a5c046dbf43a74a8c92b43c3.161) </span></span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD — </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraq's power-sharing deal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … seats in the March 7 polls. </span></span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US is planning a hardline approach to negotiations with Iran. They will fail currently. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**NY Times – 10** (DAVID E. SANGER, Writer, “Obama Set to Offer Stricter Nuclear Deal to Iran”, October 27, 2010, </span>__[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/28/world/middleeast/28iran.html]]__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) CJC </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span> … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran’s program as his “No. 1 job.” </span></span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Iran’s nuclear ambitions are not peaceful. Allowing them to continue will result in global proliferation </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Landau – Dec. ‘10** (Emily B. Landau is the director of the Arms Control and Regional Security program at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies (INSS). She teaches nuclear arms control at Tel Aviv University and the University of Haifa, Israel, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward. Position: Tough bargaining tactics”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), </span>__[[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) CJC </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">When considering how to improve … “merely” expressed his wish list.4 </span>__</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Accidents and Nuclear War </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Sturm 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ Frankie, July, Nuclear Weapons: A New Paradigm for the 21st Century, Truman National Security Project] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accidents happen, but the price … </span>__extra gravity to the threat.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Military strikes against Iran are not an option. Only dealing with the 3 pillar issues of Iranian security can result in successful easing of tensions and desires for a nuclear Iran. The plan ensures these are met by eliminating the perceived security threats that the US poses and elevating and recognizing Iran as a critical leader by ceding to their role in Iraq. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**Kibaroglu – Dec. ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mustafa Kibaroglu teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. He is also the Academic Advisor of NATO Centre of Excellence Defence against Terrorism in Ankara, Turkey, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward Position: Resuscitate the nuclear swap deal”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), [[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]) CJC </span></span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Regarding the military option, the … thus far cannot be destroyed. </span>__</span></span>



=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1AC – Adv 2 </span>__</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage 2—we’ll make it rain </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—Maliki Has One Month to Form and Government and a Full Cabinet But It Won’t Last That Long </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Arraf 10** (Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… no commitment to it</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span> </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**BBC 10** (British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest developments in the … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the Syrian and Iraqi people</span>.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_GoBack]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD (Reuters) -</span>**__Frequent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">dust storms … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">daily food," the farmer said. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]]) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraqis are calling on their … in terms of water rights</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Water wars unleash 60,000 nukes </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Weiner ’90** – Pulitzer Prize winning author (Jonathan, “The Next One Hundred Years”, p. 270) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">If we do not destroy … </span><span class="UnderliningChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">world has stockpiled</span>__</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> since Trinity. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Jansen 11/3** (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though still largely muddled, Iraq stands ready to embrace post-US era", 11/3/10, </span>__[[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-11/04/c_13589881.htm]]__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) CJC </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious … </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to form a new government though.</span> </span></span>__</span>

=1AC- Caucus= 
===﻿Plan=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The United States federal government will immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify.</span>**
===Advantage 1 is the Iran Conundrum=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The ...</span>__ __risks__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__the ...____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> longer.</span>__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**And, US-Iran war is on the** **brink now.** **Previous war rhetoric should be ignored, we must evaluate this instance in a vacuum.**</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**Friedman** **–** 10 </span>American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor (George Friedman; “Rethinking American Options on Iran”; August 31, 2010; __[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100830_rethinking_american_options_iranutm_source=GWeekly&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=100831&utm_content=readmore&elq=81e60a854cde48e88faf0a57b328aa09]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span> CJC\__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__Public ...__</span>__<span class="Underline"> possibility. </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable – this closes the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, skyrocketing oil prices and killing the world economy </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Tehran’s ...</span>__ __Iraq.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, Rising oil prices destroy the economy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Whipple 7/14/2010** (Tom, one of the most highly respected analysts of peak oil issues in the United States. Retired 30-year CIA analyst who has been following the peak oil story since 1999, Editor of the daily Peak Oil News and the weekly Peak Oil Review, The Peak Oil Crisis: A Mid-Year Review, FNCP.com, http://www.fcnp.com/commentary/national/6896-the-peak-oil-crisis-a-mid-year-review.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__six ...____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">depression</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Mead 9</span>**</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, </span>[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__For ...__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">fight</span>____.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran – plan forces US to redefine issue away from nuclear program </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">As ...</span>____this.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US focus on the nuclear issue ensures current talks about Iraq fail. Iran is committed and wants to negotiate – only redefinition of US view of Iran ensures success </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**STRATFOR – 1O** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “Ahmadinejad Reaches Out to Washington”; September 23, 2010, [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/geopolitical_diary/20100922_ahmadinejad_reaches_out_washington]]) CJC </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Rumors ...</span>____voice.__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Withdrawal from Iraq solves and avoids conflict. The US must engage Iran and push for a relationship, accepting their nuclear weapons and giving them influence in Iraq. This can only be done with a withdraw of US troops from Iraq. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Consider ...</span>__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">relationship.</span>__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Current US views mean that Iran will reject their proposal. The existence of threats and sanctions in the negotiations ruins them. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**STRATFOR – 1O**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">__Iran...__</span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> he stated.</span> </span></span>__</span>

===﻿Advantage 2 is Lebanon=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Talks with Iran will fail due to the nuclear issue – causes Iran to instigate civil war in Lebanon in the next 3 months** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**STRATFOR – 1O**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “Iran, U.S.: Momentum Building in Talks on Iraq?”, </span>**August 6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, 2010, [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/analysis/20100806_iran_us_momentum_building_talks_iraq]]) CJC</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Hezbollah...</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> balance</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**Second, Hezbollah is ready to destabilize Lebanon and the region –starts war with Israel.** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**Bazzi** </span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">– 10 (Mohamad Bazzi is an adjunct senior fellow for Middle East studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, New York, “Hizbollah holds key to Lebanon's stability”, 28 September, 2010, [[http://www.nst.com.my/nst/articles/17lebanon0924/Article/]]) CJC </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ON Aug 3,Lebanese troops fired on an Israeli military patrol that was pruning a tree along the border between the two countries. That set off a series of skirmishes which killed two Lebanese soldiers, a Lebanese journalist and an Israeli commander. The situation was brought under control within a few hours and the border has been quiet since then. But this clash -- the most serious in four years -- underscores wh</span></span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">y</span> </span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Lebanon's </span></span></span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> Lebanon</span>. </span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, MIDDLE EAST WAR WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL NUCLEAR CONFLAGRATION. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach</span>, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">__S__</span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">hould ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">conflagration."</span>__ </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Finally, Middle East war destroys all life on the planet.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Hirsch 06**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” </span>__Global Research__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, July 24, 2006, pg. [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807]].] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the ...</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">end</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>** </span>




=1AC- New Trier= 
===Plan=== 
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the South Korea. </span>

===Advantage 1 is Regionalism=== 

**U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that __does not__ rely on the U.S. – solves litany of impacts**
**Francis, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Ea</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">st</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> .... </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">**power**</span>.__

**<span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a __clear sign__ of U.S. withdrawal can motivate __sustainable__ regional security cooperation</span>**
**<span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4 - *</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Without</span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ....</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Pacific.</span>__

**Specifically, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**

Lee, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP)</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">a </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.... </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">mechanism</span>__

**Asian conflict risks superpower nuclear conflic**t
**Zola, 07 –** working with the Centre for Dialogue (February 2007, Benjamin, Security Challenges, “Asia-Pacific: The New Nuclear Fault Line?” vol. 3, no. 1**, [[http://www.securitychallenges.org.au/ArticlePDFs/vol3no1Zala.pdf]])**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">In</span>__ ....** __<span style="background-color: yellow;">increase.</span>__

**South Korea can’t push for multilateral organizations until it has relative independence from the U.S.**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Synder 9</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> – Director, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy Senior Associate, International Relations (Scott, “China’s Rise and the Two Koreas: Politics, Economics, Security”, pg. 190) MGM</span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Roh</span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">..... </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">U</span>nited <span style="background-color: yellow;">S</span>tates<span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span>**

**Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**Espiritu, 06<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">as</span>__ .... __<span style="background-color: yellow;">region</span>__**

**Strengthening the East Asian regional security architecture key to solve terrorism, territorial disputes, disease, environmental degradation, and maritime security**
**Nanto, 08<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf)</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.... </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">proliferation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Regionalism only functional system– withdrawal will encourage stable regional defense modernization </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">**Carpenter and Bandow 4** – *Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND </span>Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 145-146)DR
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">nations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> .... </span></span><span style="background-color: yellow;">indefensible</span>

===Advantage 2 is Succession=== 


**North Korean succession is coming – Kim’s health is deteriorating and the country is becoming instable**
**Glaser, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow, Freeman Chair in China Studies and Senior Associate, Pacific Forum. Bonnie, 5/26/10, “Is North Korea on the Verge of Collapse?” ([[http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Asia/Is-North-Korea-on-the-Verge-of-Collapse.html]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Kim</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> .... </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">dangerous</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Multiple factors make collapse inevitable within the next few years even if the succession is smooth</span>** </span>
//**<span style="font-style: normal;">Meyers, 10</span>**////<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;"> – professor at Dongseo University in South Korea (3/26/10, B.R. Meyers, “ North Korea on the Edge; If the regime collapses, will the rest of the world be ready?” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704100604575145672974954144.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_RIGHTTopCarousel)</span>//
__**<span style="background-color: yellow;">even </span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.... </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">mind</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Presence in South Korea guarantees draw-in and US-China conflict**
**Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]], JMP)</span>
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">China’s</span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ....</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> war.</span>__

**Draw-in is guaranteed: US Navy commander says that they are preparing to respond to a regime collapse**
**Suk, 9/8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sarah, 9/8/10, “US Navy on alert over North Korea looming succession”, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific, JPW)</span>
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A</span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> .... </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">incident</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>

**Plan forces China’s hand: they will have no choice but to take the lead in stabilizing North Korea**
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Garfinkle, 03</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Adam, Professor at University of Pennsylvania and Editor of the National Interest, “Checking Kim”, January 27, 2003, [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]])</span>
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">the</span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> .... </span>**<span style="background-color: yellow;">increased</span>**

**U.S. presence makes provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw in**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">today’s</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">....</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> nations</span>__


**And, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
<span class="Heading2Char">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">–*Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** </span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">there </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.... </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">states. </span>__


**Tensions are impossibly high – miscalculation or accidents will trigger**
**Ford, 10**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, 6/16/10, CS Monitor, “North Korea brandishes threats as UN debates Cheonan sinking” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-Pacific/2010/0616/North-Korea-brandishes-threats-as-UN-debates-Cheonan-sinking]])</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">tensions </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">....</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> secure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">Troop withdrawal is key – its the necessary precondition to get China on board for Korean reunification and peaceful leadership transition </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Nguyen ‘9</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Van Nguyen is a freelance writer based in Sydney, Australia. His articles have been published in OpEdnews, Asia Times Online and Foreign Policy Journal, October 13 2009)</span>**
**<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">a </span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">....</span>**<span style="background-color: yellow;"> Koreas</span>.** 


=Negative= 
Afghanistan:
Withdrawal DA
Karzai Conditions CP
T-Combat Troops
Pakistan Co-op CP
Lots o' case

Korea:
NK Denuc CP
Military Exercises CP

Japan BMD:
Space Mil CP (co-operate with China on BMDs and ban space militarization, solves all China internal links)
North Korea Net Benefit (to the above CP)

Generic:
Security K
START Good DA
Borders K
T - Resolved = Consult (lol)

[[mailto:jwright@barstowschool.org|jwright@barstowschool.org]]
I'm terrible at checking my email, probably should email Molly and tell her to forward it to me. Also, if you facebook me, don't. (i don't check facebook either)

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]