Contention one is Inherency - 

Obama has increased use of targeted drone attacks however there is little distinction between policy and murder.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Banks</span></span> 4/28/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> (William C., Banks is a Board of Advisers Distinguished Professor Syracuse University. “UNMANNED SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY” ebsco, accessed 6/25/10)


1AC – Plan

The United States federal government should substantially reduce all target killing and assassination forces from the topically designated countries. 

We’ll clarify


Contention two is Afghanistan - 


First, targeted killings in Afgahnistan and Pakistan are being authorized undermining Afghanistan’s legal credibility and killing innocent people who are seen as “collateral damage” fueling resentment.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hentoff</span></span> 11/24/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span> (Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010)

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">This resentment will only embolden the insurgency. </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dressler</span></span> 9/1/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span> (Jeff, Research Analyst at the Institute for the Study of War. “Surge in Afghanistan: A Response to George Will,” The Compass <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.realclearworld.com/blog/2009/09/surge_in_afghanistan_a_respons.html#more]]</span>)

Empirically, The situation also spreads to Pakistan
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Khalilzad & Byman</span></span>, Sr Fellows @ RAND, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2000</span></span> (Zalmay & Daniel, The Washington Quarterly, Winter)


Of course the U.S utilizes their new favorite toy, Drones. These Drone attacks destroy Pakistani government credibility and increase the risk of Taliban activities on the Pakistan-Afghan border. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 09</span></span>’(“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.worldcantwait.net/index.php/features-mainmenu-220/obama-watch/5359-obamas-solution-for-pakistan-missile-strikes-from-unmanned-drones|Obama's Solution for Pakistan: Missile Strikes from Unmanned Drones]]</span>”, by Larry Jones, staff writer, The World Can’t Wait, The World Can’t Wait organizes people living in the United States to repudiate and stop the fascist direction initiated by the Bush Regime Tuesday, 03 February 2009 00:46

Removing presence in Afghanistan solves, there are cross border operations from Afghanistan to Pakistan
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Murphy</span></span> PhD in Law 10/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">08</span></span> (Sean D., Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professor of Law, George Washington University Law School. “The International Legality of U.S. Military Cross-Border Operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan” http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/spring09/materials/The%20International%20Legality%20of%20US%20Military%20Cross%20Border%20Operations.pdf) MFR 

Additionally this includes drones
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Murphy </span></span>PhD in Law 10/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">08</span></span> (Sean D., Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professor of Law, George Washington University Law School. “The International Legality of U.S. Military Cross-Border Operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan” http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/spring09/materials/The%20International%20Legality%20of%20US%20Military%20Cross%20Border%20Operations.pdf) MFR 

Pakistani instability results in Indo-Pak nuclear war 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 2007 </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephen John, Former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span></span>

Contention 4 is Perpetual violence and Adventurism
U.S. Adventurism Leads to Imperial Backlash and an Unending Cylce of Wars for Savage Peace Collapsing Hege
Christopher <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne</span></span> (Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University)<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> 2007</span></span> “American Empire: A Debate” p 54-5


The concept of security erects what it tries to defeat – in it’s name, wars were waged and WMDs developed all in this search for complete security. This turns everyone into the enemy. The militarization never ends.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html, AD: 7/7/09) jl</span>

UNMANNED TECHNOLOGY LEADS TO MORE WARS
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Singer 2009</span></span> [Peter Warren Singer is an American Political Scientist and international relations scholar, he is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings institution, where he is the director of the 21st century Defense Initiative; “Robots at War: The New Battlefield’; Winter 2009; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.wilsonquarterly.com/article.cfm?aid=1313]]</span>; 6/29/2010; K.C.]

<span style="color: black; font-size: 16.0pt;">Considering drones as well as institutions as separate from military presence transfers responsibility to them and creates complicity in violence </span>
__<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">KAPELLER 95</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; font-weight: normal;">[SUSANNE, PROFESSOR AT CAL-BERKLEY AND AL-AKHAWAYN UNIVERSITY, “THE WILL TO VIOLENCE: THE POLITICS OF PERSONAL BEHAVIOR, PG. 8-11//AWSARE] </span>