[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Okinawa prefecture of Japan.

**Contention 1 is the Alliance:**
**Three internal links**

**First is consultations with the US- they fracturing the alliance, despite the irrelevance of the base militarily**
**John <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer</span></span>** 3-6-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies “Okinawa and the new domino effect” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html
For a country with a pacifist constitution, … __another of dubious strategic value.__




**Second is accidents- Further, resistance to the base and inevitable accidents at Futenma spur growing protests against US military operations which stresses the US-Japan alliance and will force the total collapse of the alliance.**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 6-16-10</span></span>** (Michael Auslin, Direct of Japan Studies at American Enterprise Institute, 6/16/10, " The Real Futenma Fallout ", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket)TM
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A great sigh of relief … </span>__upholding the alliance's military capabilities__. 




T**hird is environment- The installations in Okinawa are dump toxic substances and U.S. immunity create an unchecked environmental crisis that will damage the alliance-- which is a systemic impact in itself**
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Johnson</span>__**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">,</span> Chalmers A. //Blowback: the Costs and Consequences of American Empire//. (Pg. 48) New York: Henry Holt, 20__**<span style="background-color: yellow;">__04__</span>__**. Print. AD**__

<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Closely related to noise pollution … </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">any responsibility for environmental cleanup.</span>__** </span>


**And, while Obama can force Japan to cave on the Futenma issue, it will be a Pyrrhic victory – we’ll win the battle but lose the alliance in the long run.**
**Joseph S.<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Nye</span></span>** Jr., 1-6-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> “An Alliance Larger … __on Futenma could prove Pyrrhic__. 


**Scenario 1 is Regional Stabiliy**
**the alliance is critical to regional stability in Asia – this is the most likely flashpoint for global nuclear war.**
**Richard L. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armitage et al. 2000</span></span>** Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

Asia, in the throes of … __to America’s global security strategy.__


**Scenario 2 is China**
**Strong US-Japan alliance is key to solving Chinese invasion of Taiwan through economic interdependence**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye, 2008</span></span> [Joseph Nye, 5-12, Korea Times, “Future of US-Japanese Alliance,” Lexis]**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Japan and the U.S</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">., unlike China, … on deeply rooted joint interests. </span>

**And, war over Taiwan causes extinction**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Strait Times, 2000** [“</span></span>Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN]
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a … __puts sovereignty above everything else.__


**Scenario 3 is North Korea**
**Cooperation with Japan is critical to solve the North Korea issue**
<span class="citebold">Rapp</span>, Lieutenant Col. With a PH.D in … .mil/ssi/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf)
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">North Korea</span> and its ...<span style="background-color: yellow;">agreed strategic framework.</span> </span>

**Failure of negotiations on North Korea will massive conflict, economic collapse and a decline in US leadership**
Brad <span class="citebold">Glosserman</span>, Director of Research … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">building up throughout East Asia. </span>



**Impact: 30 million, irradiate major population centers, and kill hundreds of millions by destroying the global climate. It would be a holocaust of unimaginable and unprecedented proportions.**
**Hayes, 2010** (Peter and Michael, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute and Green, Victoria University, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, accessed at http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)


=<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">__The consequences of failing to …__ consideration from the international community.</span>Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]