<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[toc]]







</span>
==South Korea 1AC== 
===**Contention 1: Inherency**=== 

<span class="cite">The United States is committed to military presence in South Korea indefinitely-the delay of operational transition proves </span>
<span class="cite">BBC</span>, July 11, <span class="cite">2010</span>, “South Korean defence minister: No "additional delay" over command transfer”, BBC Worldwide Monitoring, Lexis


<span class="Underline">**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea** </span>


===**Contention 2 is Hegemony, plan solves 3 ways:**=== 

**1. Uncontrolled domestic spending makes collapse of U.S. deployments inevitable, the question is not where we base but how we manage the transition**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 10</span> [Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, the Bastiat Scholar in Free Enterprise at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Cobden Fellow in International Economics at the Institute for Policy Innovation, the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, the Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, former special assistant to President Reagan, former editor of Inquiry magazine, widely published in such periodicals as Foreign Policy, Harper's, National Interest, National Review, The New Republic, and Orbis, as well as leading newspapers, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post; “Bankrupt Empire,” Apr 19, d/a: 7/15/10, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23256]

**2. Army presence in South Korea is not flexible enough. Removing troops allows mission refocus toward Air and Naval superiority.**
<span class="cite">O’HANLON, 4 </span>[Michael, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy Studies, The Sydney Stein, Jr., Chair, The Brookings Institution, “THE STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS OF U.S. TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM KOREA,” Testimony before Committee on Armed Services, US House of Representatives, [H.A.S.C. No. 108–31], 6/15, d/a: 7/15/10, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/security/has167000.000/has167000_0f.htm]

**Withdrawing from South Korea gives the US military flexibility and solves overstretch.**
<span class="cite">CUMMINGS, 4</span> [John, Colonel in US Army; project advised by Col. Leonard J. Fullenkamp, USA Ret, USA Ret., Professor of Military History and Strategy, US Army War College, “SHOULD THE U.S. CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN FORCES IN SOUTH KOREA?” USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT, May 3, d/a: 7/14/10, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423298]

**Troop overstretch is the most important factor in overall military readiness.**
<span class="cite">NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORY GROUP, 6</span> [Chaired by William Perry, former United States Secretary of Defense, “The U.S. Military: Under Strain and at Risk,” January, d/a: 7/18/10, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/report/2006/us-military_nsag-report_01252006.htm]

**And that’s critical to U.S. leadership. Weakness causes power vacuums.**
Spencer 2000Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, “The Facts About Military Readiness,” Sept 15, d/a: 7/18/10, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]

**3. North Korean proliferation despite US presence collapses faith in US Extended Nuclear Deterrence, this is the strongest internal link to credibility**
<span class="cite">HAYES, 9</span> [Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific; “Extended Nuclear Deterrence: Global Abolition and Korea,” Dec 17, d/a: 7/14/10, [[http://www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/policy-forums-online/security2009-2010/09096Hayes.html/]]]

**US hegemony checks multiple conflicts – each could escalate to nuclear levels**
Niall <span class="cite">Ferguson</span> – Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History @ Harvard University, Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution – When Empires Wane, 200<span class="cite">4</span> – http://www.opinionjournal.com/editorial/feature.html?id=110005244)



===**Contention 3 is North Korea**=== 

**North Korea is getting more aggressive, and current tensions make a new Korean war inevitable.**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 10</span> [Doug Bandow, full list of credentials above, “An Unstable Rogue” Apr 6, d/a: 7/15/10, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23144]

**Plan solves 3 ways:**

**1. U.S. presence provides an incentive for North Korean aggression.**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 8</span> [Dough, senior fellow at Cato Institute, Seoul Searching” Nov 11, d/a: 7/15/10, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20218]

**2. U.S. withdrawal encourages stable, transparent Asian proliferation. This is the best way to prevent further North Korean aggression.**
<span class="cite">CARPENTER, 6</span> [Ted Galen, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at CATO Institute, “Nuclear Neighbors Might Thwart N. Korea,” Nov 11, d/a: 7/15/10, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6772]

**3. Removing troops from South Korea is key to get China on board to prevent North Korean proliferation**
[[#_Toc269040750]] [Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” 5/25/10, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]

**China is the essential player to end North Korea’s nuclear ambitions**
<span class="cite">Medcalf 9 <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[</span></span>Rory, directs the international security program at the Lowy Institute. He has previously worked as an intelligence analyst, diplomat and journalist. “Wicked Weapons: North Asia’s Nuclear Triangle”. http://www.lowyinstitute.org/Program_IntSecurity.asp.

**Continued North Korean aggression and proliferation causes rapid regional nuclearization and preemptive regional war.**
<span class="cite">CIMBALA, 10</span> [Stephen, professor of political science at Penn State, __Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century__, p. 117-8]

**These wars go nuclear and trigger every existential impact.**
<span class="cite">HAYES AND HAMEL-GREEN, 9 [Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, 50-1-09, December 14, d/a: 7/14/10, </span>http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]



===**Contention 4 is China**=== 

**China’s rise is inevitable, the critical question is whether they will bind themselves to allied interests or backlash against U.S. unilateralism.**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 10</span> [Doug, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” May 25, d/a: 7/15/10]

**Plan solves 2 ways:**

**1. Troops are perceived as containment and causes Chinese backlash**
<span class="cite">SIK, 6</span> [Cheong Wook, director of Peace Network in South Korea, “ROK-U.S. Alliance: More Harm Than Good,” 4/04, d/a: 7/14/10, http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=321054]

**2. Plan alters defense investments in South Korea and causes conventional modernization – deters inevitable Chinese aggression**
<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Bandow 9</span></span> (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, “A Tattered Umbrella”, National Interest, 6-16, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606)

**Removal of troops spurs a South Korea/Japan regional alliance that secures US security alliances**
Bandow, 08 [Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20,
http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/

**An aggressive Chinese rise causes war with the U.S. over regional interests-this is the most probable scenario for great power war.**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 10</span> [Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, full list of credentials listed above. “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” May 25, d/a: 7/15/10]

**The impact is global nuclear war.**
<span class="cite">STRAITS TIMES, 2K</span> [“No One Gains in War over Taiwan,” 6/25/00, Lexis]


**Contention 5: Deterrence**

**Troops aren’t effective, but they will be replaced with better technology that deters.**
<span class="cite">BROOKES, 4</span>[Peter, Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs and Director, Asian Studies Center, The Heritage Foundation, “THE STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS OF U.S. TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM KOREA,” Testimony before Committee on Armed Services, US House of Representatives, [H.A.S.C. No. 108–31], 6/15, d/a: 7/15/10, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/security/has167000.000/has167000_0f.htm]

**Our plan doesn’t remove the nuclear umbrella. This is enough to solve deterrence.**
<span class="cite">BANDOW, 10</span> [Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas” Apr 18, d/a: 7/15/10,http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]


==Jundallah 1AC== 


===**Contention 1 is Jundallah**=== 
**In 2008, President Bush enacted a presidential finding that fundamentally changed our relationship with Iran. In a low-profile meeting, congressional leaders agreed to secretly reallocate funding for regime change, using Jundallah as a proxy in our new cold war.**
**Hersh 08**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 14.05pt;">Seymour, Journalist, “Preparing the Battlefield.” The New Yorker. July7, 2008. </span>
[[http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2008/07/07/080707fa_fact_hersh]]

**The United States gives military aid to Jundallah- leader confession, Iranian intelligence, CIA leaks, western media and State Department designation prove**
Is the Obama Administration Supporting Violent "Regime Change" in Iran?
by Flynt <span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Leverett</span>** **<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>**</span> Hillary Mann <span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Leverett, </span>**</span>Professor at Pennsylvania State University’s School of International Affairs. ,CEO of Strategic Energy and Global Analysis (STRATEGA), a political risk consultancy. 06.03.<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">10</span>**</span>, Monthly Review, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://mrzine.monthlyreview.org/2010/leverett060310.html]]</span>


**Military aid for Jundallah is carried out by US forces based in Afghanistan**
M K **Bhadrakumar**, career diplomat in the Indian Foreign Service. “ Jundallah arrest proves timely for Iran”, Asia Times Online. Feb 26, **2010**. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/LB26Ak01.html]]</span>


<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Jundallah operates in Balochistan; they attack Iran from the Afghan border region </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Dawn News 9-18 </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> “Hostage, three gunmen die in Iran kidnap rescue” Dawn News Service. Sept 18, 2010. </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/world/04-iran-kidnapping-sistan-qs-07]] </span>

<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Jundallah is a militant organization: bombings of mosques and schools, beheadings, opium trade and links to Al Qaeda and the Taliban </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">DailyKos 6-30</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Posted by gjohnsit “Your tax dollars funding terrorists, child soldiers, and drug traffickers” Daily Kos: State of the Nation. Wed Jun 30, 2010 at 03:32:31 PM PDT </span></span>
[[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2010/6/30/18244/4447]]


<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Disads are nonunique, Obama has classified other Irani opposition groups as terrorists. Only Jundallah is left. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Lobe 2010 </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Jim, Staff Writer, IPS News, “Mosque Blasts Denounced by Obama, Clinton.” July 16,2010 </span></span><span style="color: black;">http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=52187 </span>



<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military aid and personnel that supports Jundallah in Afghanistan. </span>**</span>




===Contention 2: Iran=== 


<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Obama has failed to change the relationship with Iran; peace talks and democracy promotion have descended to sanctions and regime change, accelerated by the controversial UN speech. War is inevitable in this mindset. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Afrasiabi 10-2 </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kaveh, </span></span>//<span style="color: black;">PhD, is the author of</span>// <span style="color: black;">After Khomeini: New Directions in Iran's Foreign Policy , “Ominous signs in Iran under siege.” Asia Times Online. Oct 2, 2010 </span>[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/LJ02Ak01.html]]

<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The current cold war mentality with Iran makes conflict inevitable </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Karim **Sadjadpour** , August 3, 20**07** “The Wrong Way to Contain Iran”. INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE, associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and director of the Carnegie Iran Initiative. </span></span>

<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">JSOC support of Jundallah radicalizes Iran, raising threat perception </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Robicheau, March 2010.</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Daniel, freelance journalist and editor “Sanctions on Iran: What’s Missing from Obama’s New Dialogue”, Monthly Review,Volume 61, Number 10 </span></span>
[[https://www.monthlyreview.org/100301robicheau.php]]

<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;"><span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Jundallah is the lynchpin of a regime-change strategy that tanks negotiations and undermines Obama’s diplomacy. Only a rejection of the two-faced Iran strategy can solve; empirically proven by Nixon and China </span>**</span></span>
<span style="color: black;"> Flynt **Leverett** **and** Hillary Mann **Leverett** Posted on October 20th, 200**9**. Professor at Pennsylvania State University’s School of International Affairs. ,CEO of Strategic Energy and Global Analysis (STRATEGA), a political risk consultancy. “Obama: Stop Covert Activities Against Iran and Dump Bush’s Policy of Playing the Sunni-Shi’a Card”. The Race for Iran. http://www.raceforiran.com/obama-stop-covert-activities-against-iran-and-dump-bushs-policy-of-playing-the-sunni-shia-%E2%80%9Ccard%E2%80%9D </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;">**Covert regime change is the key roadblock to nuclear negotiations. Fighting a proxy war contrasts with Obama’s soft power to radicalize the Iranian leadership.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;"> Flynt **Leverett**, May 24, 20**09** New America Foundation “Have we already lost Iran?” [[http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/have_we_already_lost_iran_13978]]</span>

[[#_Toc271213604]][[#_Toc80532286]][[#_Toc80532184]]

**Engagement and security guarantee solves Iran** **hostility, preventing war**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Perthes and Wegner 06</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Director and Post-Doc Scholar, both at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Volker and Eva, “Enriching the Options: Europe, the United States, and Iran,” Discussion paper for the 4th Annual GMF Think Tank Symposiums in Vienna, June 11-12, http://www.swp-berlin.org/en/common/get_document.php?asset_id=3019]</span>


<span class="Underline0">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Jundallah support leads to radical movements, destabilization, and escalation, forcing US intervention</span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;">“Subverting Iran: Washington's covert war inside Iran” by Gregory **Elich** (source: Global Research) Friday, March 23, 20**07**http://www.campaigniran.org/casmii/index.php?q=node/2815</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">agent, is “to supply and train” these groups “to destabilize the Iranian regime.”</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1) </span></span>


**Iran strikes trigger regional proliferation culminating in global nuclear war**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">HIRSCH 06</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jorge</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">1/3/2006</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, a professor of physics at the University of California San Diego. originator of the physicists' petition on nuclear weapons policies started at the UCSD, “America's nuclear ticking bomb”, http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html] </span>
[[#_Toc271213564]]

**Strikes cause war with Russia**

[[#_Toc271213565]]



[[#_Toc271213566]]

**Extinction**
[[#_Toc271213567]]**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-transform: uppercase;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-transform: uppercase;">Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford U., Existential Risks, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-transform: uppercase;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-transform: uppercase;">)</span>**


[[#_Toc271213549]]
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Iran war forces syrian smallpox retaliation</span>**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Corsi 07</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jerome,- writer for Wordnet daily, citing Jill Bellamy-Dekker, director of the Public Health Preparedness program for the European Homeland Security Association under the French High Committee for Civil Defense “Syria ready with bio-terror if U.S. hits Iran” http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=54542] </span>

[[#_Toc271213551]]
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">This outweighs nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Singer ’01</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Clifford,- is a professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” [[http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm]]] </span>

**Iran War would triple the price of oil**
**BBC** NEWS Wednesday, 21 June 20**06**, Iran war 'could triple oil price' [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/5101444.stm]]

**High Prices Cause Global Depression**
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Sato and Okada 2008</span> </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Shigeru and Yuji, Bloomberg News Analysts, “Oil at US$200 Would Trigger Global Recession, Deutsche Bank Warns”, FINANCIAL POST, http://www.financialpost.com/most_popular/story.html?id=612878, June 25, 2008)</span> </span>

[[#_Toc110313196]]W**orld War Three**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead, 9</span></span> – Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations
(Walter Russell, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2/4/09,
[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]])

==Futenma Aff== 


===Contention 1: Inherency=== 



**Despite a relocation agreement, the U.S’ Futenma airbase in Japan will not be moved**
**House of Japan, 1-10**
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">1-10-11, “Okada Futenma Relocation?” on House of Japan.com http://www.houseofjapan.com/world/okada-futenma-relocation </span>




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Last year’s assembly elections make relocation impossible—opponents to the move now hold majority </span></span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Johnston ’10 </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Eric Johnson, staff writer for The Japan Times, “ Nago election puts Futenma move in doubt” Sept. 14, 2010</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>



===Plan Text=== 


Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw Marine Corps Air Station Futenma from Japan.


===Contention 2: China=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Futenma troops are based off a flawed notion of China containment</span> </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">John </span><span class="author-date">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Feffer</span></span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, Ph.D. co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught an international conflict graduate course at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul, lectured at NYU and Cornell. 5-6-</span><span class="author-date">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">10</span></span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We have 3 internal links— </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">First is the Alliance—</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">dispute over Futenma crushes U.S-Japan relations despite Chinese aggression</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
**Blair 10** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Gavin, Correspondent, “Okinawa election eases pressure on US military base location,” The Christian Science Monitor, 11/29/10, Lexis, LFan]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">

</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The status quo ensures a Japanese political disaster that will cripple the Alliance
Ennis 10,</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html)</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A strong alliance is the only thing preventing Chinese annexation of Taiwan</span> </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Okamoto, 02</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yukio <span class="author-date">Okamoto</span> special advisor to the Japanese Prime Minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, Special Advisor to the Prime Minister on Okinawa affairs. WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Spring 2002, p. 59 WBTA</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Second is Naval Power--</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Protests over Futenma will spill over and prevent the U.S</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> from stationing nuclear aircraft carriers in Japan</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin 10 –</span>** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Japanese Studies Director @ AEI [Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And a strong naval presence checks Chinese-Taiwan conflict</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Yoshida</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, Japan Times Staff Writer, **08** [Reiki,“Basics of the U.S. military presence”, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi- </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">bin/nn20080325i1.html] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Third is Kadena Air Base-- </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Resolving the Futenma issue is critical to hold onto Kadena
Ennis 10,</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html)</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, Kadena is critical to preventing a China-Taiwan conflict</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ross 2</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Political Science professor at Boston College, “Navigating the Taiwan Strait: Deterrence, Escalation Dominance and US-China Relations, International Security”</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The impact is global war over Taiwan—recent military buildup proves China is on the brink</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Richardson 1-21 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael Richardson, Taiwan Policy Examiner for The Examiner.com. “Hu Jintao Tells American Business Leaders that Taiwan Belongs to Taiwan.” http://www.examiner.com/taiwan-policy-in-national/hu-jintao-tells-american-business-leaders-that-taiwan-belongs-to-china</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chinese aggression to Taiwan causes global nuke war—U.S will first strike and superpower draw in</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hunkovic 09</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">American Military University,<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span> [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.9pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America</span>”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>




===Contention 3: The Alliance=== 



**The botched 2006 relocation is the critical question of the Alliance—Japan won’t back down, the U.S has been too heavy-handed**
**Tanaka, 10**<span class="underline0"> – Senior Fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange (2/10, Hitoshi, “The US-Japan Alliance: Beyond Futenma,” </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Now is key, Japan has become enraged about U.S failed promises in the past, failing this test will ensure a collapse in relations**
**Feffer 10** **5/6****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">/</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">10 – Ph.D. co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught an international conflict graduate course at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul, lectured at NYU and Cornell (John, “Okinawa and the new domino effect,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html</span>) </span>


**The Alliance solves all Asian war scenarios, risk of European conflict is small**
**NSS, ‘00**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">“The United States and Japan: Advancing Towards a Mature Partnership.” A special report for the Institute of Natioanl Strategic Studies, October 11th, 2000 </span>**


**The alliance is critical to prevent cyberterrorism**
**Denmark 10**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> – Abraham Denmark, senior fellow for a New American Century, “Cornerstone: A Future Agenda for the U.S.-Japan Alliance, CNAS Policy Brief </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
**Cyberterrorism causes accidental nuke launch**
**Fritz 9**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> – Jason Fritz, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control” a paper commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament”. </span>


**The entire security alliance is at a turning point over Futenma, this concession is key to prove we can fulfill promises and be a valuable partner in the coming decade**
**Smith 10** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">7/26</span>**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">/10 – </span></span>Senior Fellow for Japan at the Council on Foreign Relations (Sheila, “Successful U.S.-Japan agenda must meet public expectations,” http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm)