[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Korea== 
**Inherency**
**South Korean dependence on the US will only increase.**
BANDOW 2010
This is a ludicrous … defend its own personnel.
**Nationalism, anti-Americanism, burden sharing, and lack of political support make a withdrawal of ground troops inevitable-->**
Printz and Doran 06
A second … capabilities of allies.
**Reunification is inevitable---North Korean regime is unsustainable.**
Printz and Doran 06
Yet in spite of the current grim and unpredictable situation … North Korean creates.
**North Korea doesn’t want war and South Korean forces plus US air support would quickly defeat them.**
Cummings 2004
Due to the degradation of North Korean conventional forces … conventional forces capability.
[[#_Toc274847949]][[#_Toc274847727]]
----

**Plan****: The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its military presence in the Republic of Korea. We will clarify.**

----
==**Scenario 1 is Proliferation.**== 
**North Korea will proliferate – US micromanaging fails.**
Carpenter 2009
The ongoing North Korean nuclear crisis … proliferation problem.
**N. Korea vows to strengthen nuclear arms to prepare for SK/US invasion it deems likely.**
Associated Press 9/29/10
North Korea vowed … scores of times.
**North Korea maintains its nuclear arsenal ONLY in response to a perceived threat by US forces in the region.**
<span class="cite">CHARLES J. HANLEY and RANDY HERSCHAFT (Associated Press) Oct-9, 2010</span>
Just this past April, … nuclear weapons.
**NK Nuclear Proliferation likely if US maintains presence in SK.**
//Associated Press// 9/29/10
He insisted that North Korea's stockpile of atomic weapons … found North Korea responsible.
**US withdrawal forces China to stop North Korean proliferation—this solves allied prolif.**
BANDOW 2010
What value, then, is the alliance? … on Pyongyang.
[[#_Toc265527807]]
<span class="Underline">Bandow and Carpenter </span>
Although the prospect of North Korea … to rogue states.
**Terrorism causes global nuclear war.**
Speice 2006
The potential consequences … the use of nuclear weapons.
**North Korea prolif will include ballistic missiles – they have access to the technology.**
Hildreth 08
Some experts voice concern … designs from other countries.
==**Scenario 2 is War.**== 
**U.S. presence makes provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw-in.**
Bandow 10
Suspicions continue … doing so in 2010 is bizarre.
**The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely.**
Armstrong 10
On the other hand, there is a real danger … start it anew.
[[#_Toc271996019]][[#_Toc271993677]]
Righter 10
It is the lack of obvious motive … this danger point.
[[#_Toc271996104]]
Landay 00
<span class="Style11ptUnderline">Few</span> if any experts <span class="Style11ptUnderline">think …</span> the Commerce Department.

==Scenario 3 is Soft Power== 
**South Korean Diplomacy Compromised Now**

...

**Active South Korean leadership locks in East Asian regionalism – stops multiple scenarios for conflict.**
Choi 08
As a ‘middle power… regional organizations.

==**Scenario 4 is Military Overstretch.**== 
**America is overstretched – we need to reduce our troop deployments.**
<span class="cite">Guardian **January 19**</span>, 2009
By virtue of its economic and military power … responsible actor rather than instigator.
**The troops in South Korea are being wasted – South Korea is strong enough to protect enough.**
<span class="cite">Friedman and Preble 2010 </span>
<span class="underline0">The Cold War is over. While we were defending our allies …</span> would not be worth the cost.
**US military overstretched now – Haiti put us on the brink.**
Wood 2010
As the United States was rushing troops, … said Monday.
**Only withdrawal solves overstretch and allows the US to prevent confrontation with great powers.**
BANDOW 2010
It also is in America's interest … people of South Korea.
**Korea is the lynchpin of US overstretch – withdrawal provides needed resources.**
CUMMINGS 2004
Neither Richard Halloran’s diplomatic options … gap between our divergent perceptions.
**Overstretch cripples American military power.**
PERRY AND FLOURNOY 2006
As a global power with global interests … weaken our ability to deter aggression.
**Decline in readiness cripples American hegemony.**
Spencer 00
America's national security requirements dictate… thereby preserving peace.
**This causes great power nuclear conflict.**
Gray 05
Logically, the reverse side of the coin … for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”
==**Scenario 5 is Unification.**== 
**North Korea has already started to crumble—collapse is inevitable.**
STAFFORD 2008
The growing flood of refugees from North Korea … thoroughly prepare for such a possibility now.
**Withdrawal causes reunification – solves Korean conflict.**
Lee 2k
It is fallacious to think that there is peace … countries of the region concerned.
**Unification stabilizes the peninsula**
Campbell et. al, 08
Given these challenges of instability and economic dislocation, … real threats.
**Peninsula instability causes nuclear war.**
The Nation 6/17/10
North Korea yesterday urged the UN Security Council … Korean Central News Agency.
[[#_Toc274847733]]
**Unification solves the South Korean economy.**
Noland 01
This would not be pure “cost,” … very different story.
**South Korean growth turns deterrence/warfighting**
<span class="Underline">Bandow and Carpenter 2004 </span>
With the ROK’s economic growth … more than a decade ago.

[[#_Toc274847734]]

**South Korea must manage the collapse to prevent uncontrollable chaos—US troops would only reinforce North Korean resistance.**
STAFFORD 2008
Even as the United States fights an information war … yet another Chinese autonomous area.

**North Korean collapse risks refugee flows leaving nuclear and bio weapons unsecured.**
<span class="Underline">Chung 09</span>
<span class="Underline"> South Koreans fear … the Kim Jong Il regime can survive. </span>
**North Korean collapse causes prolif, disease, and economic collapse.**
STAFFORD 2008
North Korea has been a U.S. adversary … the world's greatest economic and military powers.
[[#_Toc274847735]]
**North Korea will collapse now—China intends to annex it.**
STAFFORD 2008
The fact that China is preparing … seize an opportunity.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]