[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>= 
NOTE: this is not complete yet

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 1: Imperial Ambitions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Middle East is one of the last frontiers for opposition to capitalist expansion. The occupation is capital’s attempt to secure the region for the free market to reign supreme. Political reforms in the Middle East are used to intimidate regional leaders and absorb dissent.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joya 05 (Angela, PhD candidate in the department of Political Science at York University, “Theorizing Post-Cold War US Imperial Strategies in the Middle East: Integrating the Region into the Capitalist World Market” [[@http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP37-Joya.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States, with its veto power in the UN and its unrivalled position within the IMF and the World............... destroy the basis of their power by creating space for political struggles </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US occupation of the Middle East is fueled by capitalistic motivations to secure and open the region to the market. America is creating a neo-liberal empire focused on accumulation and is bent on swallowing up the Middle East.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joya 05 (Angela, PhD candidate in the department of Political Science at York University, “Theorizing Post-Cold War US Imperial Strategies in the Middle East: Integrating the Region into the Capitalist World Market” [[@http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP37-Joya.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While the establishment of monopoly control over Middle Eastern oil and energy is often posited as the ............., it is beyond the scope of this paper to discuss that aspect of US imperialism in detail</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The “nation-building-democracy-promoting” front of the U.S. occupation is a lie with sinister underlying capitalist agendas. The transnational capitalist system recognized that authoritarian regimes that cooperated in the past were politicizing the proletariat. Instead of “promoting democracy” the U.S. is in reality instituting a new more efficient mode of social control to benefit the domestic and foreign elites while pacifying the masses.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson 04 (William, Sociology, Global and International Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, University of California-Santa Barbara, “What to Expect from US “Democracy Promotion” in Iraq,” [[@http://www.soc.ucsb.edu/faculty/robinson/Assets/pdf/new%20pdfs/democracy_promotion.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US has three goals for the political system it will attempt to put into place in Iraq .........................................elites to new groups more favorable to the transnational agenda</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US imperial machine is using the liberalization of Iraq and the rest of the Middle East as a stepping stone to expand American capitalist dominance globally.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joya 05 (Angela, PhD candidate in the department of Political Science at York University, “Theorizing Post-Cold War US Imperial Strategies in the Middle East: Integrating the Region into the Capitalist World Market” [[@http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP37-Joya.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> What is the significance of Iraq in this larger project of US imperialism ..............................a recognition of both the level of American power and the pivotal role of the US in the international system.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 2: War Is Peace</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> The military industrial complex is a direct product of the contradictions of capitalism, locking us into a Neo-liberal nightmare of police states and permanent war mobilization. The “War on Terror” is a perfect example of this situation and has become a necessity in the capitalist system, meaning war and invasion are inevitable unless capitalism is challenged.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson 07 (William, Sociology, Global and International Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, University of California-Santa Barbara, “The Pitfalls of Realist Analysis of Global Capitalism: A Critique of Ellen Meiksins Wood’s Empire of Capital” [[@http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/research/hmrg/activities/documents/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By the early twenty-first century, global capitalism was in crisis ....................................... launching a permanent war mobilisation to try to stabilise the system through direct coercion </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The methodology of the capitalist system creates prisons of oppression that deny value to life and make the actions like “final solutions” possible – only through the complete rejection of this mode of thought is liberation possible</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deleuze and Guattari 72 (Gilles Deleuze AND Felix Guattari, professor of philosophy at the University of Paris and psychoanalyst, worked at La Borde. Anti-Oedipus 1972 pg 373)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"There is not one of these aspects---not the least operation, the least industrial or financial ......................... the factories are prisons, they do not resemble prisons, they are prisons. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 3: Vive Le Résistance! </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The invasion of Iraq and the occupation of the Middle East is the perfect example of the US’s complicity and leadership in the transnational capitalist system. The underlying power systems in this example must be discussed.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson 07 (William, Sociology, Global and International Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, University of California-Santa Barbara, “The Pitfalls of Realist Analysis of Global Capitalism: A Critique of Ellen Meiksins Wood’s Empire of Capital” [[@http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/research/hmrg/activities/documents/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson.pdf</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the most powerful component of the TNS, the US state apparatus defends the interests of ......... did not establish any special advantage for ‘US’ capital, for ‘its own markets’ </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One-dimensional realist explanations of international relations fail for it does not take into account supranational systems of power like global capitalism and reifies nation-state structures. The 1AC is a problemazation of global capitalism and our in round discourse provides a basis for social groups and actors to act out against capitalism.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson 07 (William, Sociology, Global and International Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, University of California-Santa Barbara, “The Pitfalls of Realist Analysis of Global Capitalism: A Critique of Ellen Meiksins Wood’s Empire of Capital” [[@http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/research/hmrg/activities/documents/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What are the political implications of the transnationalisation of capital?................ and social-group relations and practices that result from such collective agency </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The war in the Middle East, epitomized by the war in Iraq these past few years, can only be addressed with a defense of immediate total withdrawal, if we are to hope for future independent, authentic democracy in the Middle East and even here at home. Demand for total withdrawal and actual withdrawal are the best way to solve both future left wing movement here in foreign and domestic policy and allow the people of the Middle east to pursue their our future. This fundamental change in US foreign policy is the only way to solve for real change here and abroad. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LANDY 04 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Joanne, co-director of the Campaign for Peace and Democracy and a member of the New Politics editorial board [[@http://www.zcommunications.org/iraq-the-case-for-immediate-u-s-withdrawal-by-joanne-landy.pdf]]) </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The war against Iraq was wrong, first and foremost because it constituted an expansion of U.S....................................... The rest of us, however, have no such stake in continuing this nightmare </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan is an example of interstitial activity, activity that forces change through the cracks of a hegemonic system. Here, in debate, we are more free to imagine new actions outside of capitalism with our own agency, without the state and free of capitalistic hegemony.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wright 2010 (Envisioning Real Utopias , Erik Olin , Distinguished Professor of Sociology at the University of Wisconsin page 343)</span>
There are certainly many interstitial activities in contemporary capitalist societies which are ............................ of one sort or another rather than through the state


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We may not know what the world we want will look like exactly, but actions like the advocacy of the 1ac are key to strengthening popular understanding that another world is possible. Voting aff opens up greater space for more social empowerment and interstitial strategies that will work symbiotically with other strategies and ultimately lead to the final rupture of the capitalist hegemony on our actions. We imagine new solutions to our problems if we are to ever hope of making a better world.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wright 2010 (Envisioning Real Utopias , Erik Olin , Distinguished Professor of Sociology at the University of Wisconsin page 413)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> The optimistic view is that we don't know what system challenges and transformative possibilities there will be .............................. transformations possible under unexpected future historical conditions. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A new pedagogy of social empowerment must be undertaken to retake the dying public spheres of education. Our invocation of hope must be connected with an affirmation in meaningful and purposeful life to challenge the neoliberal idea of ‘disposability’. Our advocacy is a perfect opportunity for this social empowerment and affirmation and this pedagogy is a perfect interstitial strategy. If we do not vote aff in favor of breaking away from capitalist solutions, the human cost will grow to be so high, it will spell the eventual destruction of the planet and all its life.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GIROUX 08</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Henry, PROF. OF CULTURAL STUDIES AND COMMUNICATION AT MCMASTER UNIVERSITY, “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age” Social Identities, September, 2008)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Critical thought and action often emerge under the most oppressive conditions, giving voice to a notion...................... conditions for political inaction and the atrophy of democratic politics </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberalism mustn’t just be challenged, it must be challenged specifically at the intersection of pedagogy and politics, outside of just school. A counter narrative is being used here, a ‘theatre of cruelty’ where the tragedies of the world become spectacles rather than injustices to challenge. This is the spirit of debate you must vote against. Democracy is a way of life. We aren’t just reading this to win; we are reading this because if we don’t, no one will. This is where we must break free from the hegemonic “fantasy of free trade”. We must fight the injustice where it is and voting for our advocacy is the only way to actually live democracy and fight this neoliberal nightmare.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GIROUX 08</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Henry, PROF. OF CULTURAL STUDIES AND COMMUNICATION AT MCMASTER UNIVERSITY, “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age” Social Identities, September, 2008)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberalism’s politics of disposability not only are maintained merely through disciplinary and ...............................totalitarianism in its various fundamentalisms and guises</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>= 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>