[[toc]]
==Affirmative== 

For affirmative cites email: [[mailto:nyan@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org|nyan@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org]]

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea 1AC (St. Mark's Sophomore Hoedown)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Plantext: The United States Federal Government should withdraw its military presence from the Republic of Korea. We will clarify.**</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention One: Inherency</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Despite protests against US military presence in South Korea due to the blatant violations of international law, the US has no intentions on leaving any time soon; the extension of military commitment in South Korea to 2015 proves. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Xinhua News 9/7**__ ([[http://world.globaltimes.cn/asia-pacific/2010-09/570794.html|__http://world.globaltimes.cn/asia-pacific/2010-09/570794.html__]], “DPRK urges withdrawal of US troops from S. Korea”) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Democratic People's Republic of … deploying troops there on Sept. 8. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And actions by the United States and South Korea to further prostitution in the status quo prove any actions in the status quo are purely cosmetic. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Sang-Hun 9**__ (Choe, January 7, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/08/world/asia/08korea.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1|__http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/08/world/asia/08korea.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1__]], “Ex-Prostitutes Say South Korea and U.S. Enabled Sex Trade Near Bases”, New York Times) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea has railed for … the government’s and the U.S. military’s.”</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Two: The Opaque Sexual War</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Military bases and troops in South Korea inherently result in rape and other forms of violence against sex workers. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Kirk 2008**__ (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific|__http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific__]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Violence against women is pervasive … , political, economic, and social structures. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This strategy of military stationing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, environmental destruction, and war. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Kirk 2008**__ (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The power dynamics of militarism … environment – that reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The rape of South Koreans sex workers perpetuates the Orientalist views of women outside our ivory American walls as inferior and thus objectifiable – causes a spillover of domestic violence when GIs return to the US and breeds men to view women as less than human and children as justifiable to abandon. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Chang 01**__ (Emily, J.D. Candidate at the Notre Dame Law School, “Engagement Abroad: Enlisting Men, U.S. Military Policy and the Sex Industry”, Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics, and Public Policy, Lexis Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no fundamental difference … dehumanization of non-American women. </span>

=====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Three: The Misery Business</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prostitution and brothels are integral to US military bases in Korea, culminating in sexual exploitation </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Enriquez 1999**__ (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November, “Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, [[http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/|__http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/__]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The grave labour situation that … earn from the lucrative R & R business. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea is a central hub and transit point for sex trafficking in the broader Asia-Pacific region </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Statemaster Encyclopedia 2006**__ (“Encyclopedia > Prostitution in South Korea”, [[http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Prostitution-in-South-Korea|__http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Prostitution-in-South-Korea__]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prostitution in South Korea is a … have been tricked or forced. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prostitution is inseparable from sex trafficking. Trafficking is akin to slavery and dehumanization </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Enriquez 1999**__ (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November, “Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, [[http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/|__http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/__]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CATW asserts that trafficking in … perceived as less than human.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sex workers forced into military prostitution are rejected and stigmatized by their families and country – justifies their abuse. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Kirk and Francis 00**__ (Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, both are founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism, “Redefining Security: Women Challenge U.S. Military Policy and Practice in East Asia”, Berkeley Women’s Law Journal) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">These women who, forced by … , military prostitution is a national disgrace. </span>

=====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Four: Solvency </span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prostitution is fueled exclusively by US military presence – withdrawing solves. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Dujisin 09**__ [Zoltan Dujisin, Jul 7, 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, IPS] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">With the presence of U.S. soldiers, … business they can’t get out."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And status quo doesn’t solve; traditional frames of war silence the wars against the oppressed occurring in the status quo. The status quo doesn’t recognize the root cause- only the plan action solves. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Hynes 2004**__ [H. Patricia, “On the battlefield of women’s bodies: An overview of the harm of war to women,” Women’s Studies International Forum 27 (2004) 431– 445, www.elsevier.com/locate/wsif] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The first question is significant … trauma and impacts of war.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Five: Framework </span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is a good old fashioned Decision Rule—we must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery that takes the form of human trafficking. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Schmitz 2004**__ (Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense “Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A more fundamental answer might … the “Exemplary Conduct” leadership standard. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Bromberg 2009**__ (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, 12/25/09, LV) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The evolution of ethical systems … and slaughtering of human beings. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, rape outweighs any impacts: it’s worse than nuclear war. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**New York Times 1983**__ [December 29, 1983, “A Feminist Campaign for the Presidency”] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">She argues, for example, that … with peace between the sexes.'' </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The threats of huge, contrived impacts are exaggerated depictions of imagination that paper over reality – we must evaluate the systemic impacts of the aff first. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Rescher, Prof. of Philosophy, 83**__ (Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But while there is room … serious tend to be underestimated. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inaction is complicity – Governments and their people have an obligation to take all possible measures to stop sex trafficking and rape. </span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Human Rights Watch 2K**__ [“Trafficking of Migrant Women for Forced Prostitution into Greece,” [[http://www.hrw.org/backgrounder/eca/greece/greece_memo_back.htm]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All governments have an obligation … abuses by their own agents </span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>==