[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="border-bottom: solid #cccccc 1.0pt; border: none; display: block; mso-border-bottom-alt: solid #cccccc .75pt; mso-element: para-border-div; padding: 0in 0in 0in 0in;">
=<span style="border: none; line-height: 14.25pt; mso-border-bottom-alt: solid #cccccc .75pt; mso-outline-level: 4; mso-padding-alt: 0in 0in 0in 0in; padding: 0in;">Ranciere Aff</span>= 

<span style="border: none; line-height: 14.25pt; mso-border-bottom-alt: solid #cccccc .75pt; mso-outline-level: 4; mso-padding-alt: 0in 0in 0in 0in; padding: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1: Ethics</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> </span></span>
</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
**We must forego moral absolutism, and rethink ethics as revealing how elites contradict their own stated principles. In a**
**nominally democratic society, this must center on the presupposition of equality**
May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.104-112, TH)
Philosophically, we must abandon the search … to the first position: external critique.

**Equality is not hypothetical but an axiom which all social orders and even hierarchy must recognize**
Ranciere, 2006 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Hatred of democracy,” p. 46, TH)
This is what of all things … must ultimately find out it is based.

**Equality is not a goal to be achieved but an unconditional axiom from which politics must begin**
Barbour ‘10 (Charles, Department of Sociology @ U. of Alberta, “Militants of Truth, Communities of Equality: Badiou and the
ignorant schoolmaster,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, No. 2, TH)
While his work is often … if it is axiomatically denied.

**Beginning with inequality only reproduces more inequalities**
Simons and Masschelein, 2010 (Maarten, Center for Educational Policy and Innovation, and Masschelein, Center for
Philosophy of Education, “Governmental, Political and Pedagogic Subjectivation: Foucault with Rancière,” Educational
Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, Nos. 5–6, p, 596, TH)
In line with this idea … or social or collective equality.

**Placing equality at the beginning of our decision calculus is key to combat global violence**
Badiou ‘1, (Alain, Prof. of Philosophy @ EGS, On Evil: An Interview With Alain Badiou, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cabinetmagazine.org/]]</span>
issues/5/alainbadiou.php)
Take the nearest example: the … and inequality, and sexual barbarism.</span>


<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; display: block; font-size: 10pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">
<span style="border: none; line-height: 14.25pt; mso-border-bottom-alt: solid #cccccc .75pt; mso-outline-level: 4; mso-padding-alt: 0in 0in 0in 0in; padding: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: Iraq</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> </span></span>
</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
**The recent August withdrawal did not end the struggle for Iraqi independence but begun it. America now wages its combat**
**operations under the banner of stability, but their function remains the same – to violently control Iraq leaving death and**
**destruction in its wake.**
Milne, 2010 (Seumas, August 4, Guardian columnist and associate editor, studied economics and politics at Oxford and
London universities, “The US isn't leaving Iraq, it's rebranding the occupation,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/]]
cifamerica/2010/aug/04/us-iraq-rebranding-occupation, TH)
For most people in Britain … Iraq's independence has only just begun.

</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Infusing equality into the decision-making process is key to combat global destruction</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">Stannard 2006 (Matt, Department of Communication and Journalism, University of Wyoming, Spring 2006 Faculty Senate Speaker Series Speech, April 18, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position-x: 100%; background-position-y: 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat;">[[http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html]]</span>)</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">The complexity and … resist this colonization.</span> </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">

</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To justify the occupation of Iraq we claim the privileged status of liberator and declare that we are more qualified than the</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
**Iraqi people to rule Iraq. This hierarchy of inequality makes true political action by the Iraqi people impossible. Additionally,**
**our presence stifles domestic dissent by equating support for the occupation with faith in our community’s unique moral**
**character.**
Sanadjian, 2004 (Manuchehr, University of Manchester, “Fetishised liberty, the fear of the other and the global juridical rule in
Iraq,” Social Identities, 10: 5, p. 672-676, TH)
The American and British military …between givers and receivers (Mauss, 1970).

**Ranciere calls this view of the political community consensus. Consensus represents United States laws and policies as**
**perfectly aligned with the freedom and morals which universally define the American way of life.**
Ranciere 10 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Dissensus: On Politics and Aesthetics,” p. 99-
101, TH)
From the beginning, the American … nations and that between them.

**This understanding of the community creates an “infinite justice” which establishes absolute Evil as the enemy and**
**legitimizes any action in the infinite war against Evil. Any attack against America becomes an attack against Good itself**
**requiring that all enemies MUST be eliminated.**

Ranciere 2 (Jacques, April 30, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, Counterpunch, “Prisoners of the Infinite,”
[[http://www.counterpunch.org/ranciere0430.html]], TH)
From that point of view … matter of war unto death.

**To maintain this community, infinite justice requires constant pre-emption of threats before they materialize. Pre-emption**
**divides the world into threat and non-threat, legitimizing the destruction of the periphery and reducing the population to homo**
**sacer. All life and value is placed in the hands of the police.**
Goh 6 (Irving, Visiting Fellow @ Harvard U., where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of
citizenship. Research Fellow @ National U. of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its
intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From
Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, [[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html]])
In the same speech of … so must this persistence.

**Pre-emption fails as a frame for predicting and managing crises. Our attempts to achieve security become insecure, re-**
**creating the very catastrophes we try to avoid.**
Der Derian 05 (James, “National Security: An Accident Waiting to Happen,” Harvard International Review 27.3, p. 83)
It often takes a catastrophe … in other words, "planned disasters."

**These threatening depictions of the inevitable future create blind faith in political leaders. Faith-based politics apply**
**preemption to civil society, sectioning off and containing potential dissent.**
Elmer and Opel 8 (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University,
and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an
Inevitable Future, p. 9-16)
In 2003, the Pentagon released … have given way to action </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the Plan: The United States Fedral Government </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">should withdraw its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq.</span></span></span>


==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Turkey Aff</span>== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Contention 1: Status Quo

US has 5000 troops in Turkey and over 90 TNW's, but decided not to remove them

Michel </span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Comte</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (AFP), 11/6/</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, NATO to keep nuclear weapons,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hBX1m3UsgvmGJ7Mryn3QzwubaflQ?docId=CNG.b7b0e11361e7847889195c6db3707f9e.1691]]</span>
NATO leaders are unlikely...by bomber aircraft

Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from Turkey,

Contention 2: Russian Relations: They’re improving but TNWs threaten progress
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Rogi ‘10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Josh, Opinions vary on state of US-Russian relations,” Washington June 24, Post, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062305264.html]]</span>)
The US-Russia "reset"...difficult?" Gati said


START isn’t enough to solve relations—more needed
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Pifer 10/14</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Steven, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)
No two countries have...a more secure nuclear world.



And, Russia sees Lame Duck as last chance for relations, otherwise they collapse
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">White 11/3</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Greg, Wall Street Journal Washington Blog, “Russia Fears ‘Reset’ of Relations With U.S.”<span style="color: blue;">[[http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2010/11/03/russia-fears-reset-of-relations-with-us/]]</span> bb)
Russian officials voiced fear...under Bush" he added.


And, recent changes set the stage for withdraw, it’s key
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kovalenko ‘10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> [Natalya, Will US Tactical Nukes remain in Europe? May 19, The Voice of Russia,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html]]</span>]
After the Russian and US...without any preconditions.


And, strong relations key to preventing arctic disputes
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Lisken ‘9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source, “ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html]]</span>)
A leading U.S. analyst has said...test by North Korea.


Nuclear war
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Zellen ‘7</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387&sectionID=43]]</span>
In response to Russia's...over the next 20 years

Extinction
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Bostrom 2</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Nick Bostrom, 2002. Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span>)
A much greater existential...mankind's potential permanently


Relations and drawdowns solve de-alert and launch on warning
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Albright, et al 10/14</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Madeline, Strobe, and Aleksander, Foreign Policy Experts @ Brookings Institute, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)
Although the concept of...other's counterforce capabilities.

Extinction in an hour
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Giacomo ‘3</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Writer for Common Dreams. “Experts Fear US-Russia nuclear miscalculation” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www/|http://www]]</span>. commondreams.org/headlines03/ 0522-03.htm
A study by the RAND...or incomplete information

Strong relations are impossible with Turkish TNWs, reinforces threat-based relationship
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kristensen ‘6</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Hans, Federation of American Scientists, "U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Current Posture and Policy Implications,"<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/|http://www.allacademic.com]]</span>//meta/p_mla_apa_research_ citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php
Such nuclear bickering...continues to be threat based

US-Russia strategy will be reviewed in December, triggers the impact//
</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Albright, et al 10/14</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Madeline, Strobe, and Aleksander, Foreign Policy Experts @ Brookings Institute, “Next Steps on U.S.-Russian Nuclear Negotiations and Nuclear Non-Proliferation,” Brookings, pg. 2 bb)
The nuclear security summit...the non-proliferation regime

TNW presence accelerate NATO collapse, quick TNW withdraw solves nuclear war
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Gerson 11/25</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Joseph, European News Analyst, “NATO's Nuclear Doctrines: Omnicidal Weapons and "Vassal States"” Remarks presented at the No NATO/No War Counter-Summit in Lisbon, Portugal November 19, 2010
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/natos-nuclear-doctrines-omnicidal-weapons-and-vassal-states65431]]</span> bb)
The illogic collapsed in...lesser military bangs

Contention 3: Turkish Credibility
Iran can build bombs within a year.
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kahili</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, 8/27/ </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">10</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> [Reza Kahlili is a pseudonym for an ex-CIA spy who requires anonymity for safety reasons. "A Time to Betray," his book about his double life as a CIA agent in Iran's Revolutionary Guards, “Iran goes nuclear The West vacillates while Armageddon approaches”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/27/iran-goes-nuclear/print/]]</span>
Russia turned on the switch...becoming a nuclear armed state

And, Israel will strike alone if Iran doesn’t denuclearize, timeframe is one year
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Roberts 8/14</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (2010, Roberts, Bob., Israel military strike against Iran 'better than 50%', warn experts The Mirror,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-stories/2010/08/14/israel-military-strike-against-iran-better-than-50-warn-experts-115875-22486464/]]</span>)
The chances of a military strike...power plant next week

Strike fails and leaves nuclear retaliation, ensures war and opaque Iranian development
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Milhollin 8/18</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Gary, Executive director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, “The Futility of an Israeli Air Strike Against Iran's Nuclear Sites” The Atlantic, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2010/08/the-futility-of-an-israeli-air-strike-against-irans-nuclear-sites/61669/]]</span> bb)
Of all the questions...a causality of military action

Strike leads to Iranian response, withdrawal from NPT, destroys Israel-Palestine peace process, Hormuz oil disruption, and Iraq/Afghanistan failure
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Toukan & Cordesman ‘9</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Abdullah, Senior Associate @ CSIS & Former Science Advisor to King Hussein of Jordan, and Anthony H., Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS, Former Director of Intelligence for Secretary of Defense, 3/14/09 “Study on a Possible Israeli Strike on Iran’s Nuclear Development Facilities” bb)
The more an Israeli threat...Syrian and Iranian assistance

Retaliation = Extinction
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Bosco ’6</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, David, Senior Editor, Foreign Policy, 7/23/06 (<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,6188365.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary]]</span>)
The understanding that small...learned about managing conflict?

Shutting Hormuz = peak oil – America lasts 57 days before economic collapse
Edwin </span>////<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: 1pt; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">Black</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, NYT Best-Selling Investigative Journalist, 4/18/0</span>////<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: 1pt; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">9</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, (“Special Report: Iran-Israel Nuclear End Game Now Much Closer - Oil Supply At Risk” CuttingEdgeNews <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theautochannel.com/news/2009/04/18/457430.html]]</span> bb)
Iran, of course, has repeatedly...has no refining capability

Collapses economy and agriculture
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Rhodes 11/1</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Christopher, director of Fresh-lands Environmental Actions, “Resources: running out of road” Chemical and Industry dz)
The issue of food production...as quickly as possible

Economic slowdown triggers all scenarios
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Friedberg & Schoenfeld ‘8</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest)
Protectionist sentiments are sure to...with external adventures

Only Turkey can stop Iran prolif
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Ben Meir</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> 9/8/</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">10</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> [Alon, professor of IR NYU, Can Turkey Defuse Iran's Nuclear Challenge?”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html]]</span>]
Turkey is uniquely suited to...the United States and Israel
Removing TNWs increases Turkey’s credibility with Iran, key to halt nuclearization.
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kibaroglu ‘10</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> [June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu]]</span>, AY
Last year, Turkey held...more ambitious nuclear capabilities

Contention 3: Proliferation
Incirlik is insecure
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Tümer ‘6</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Aslıhan, Disarm Campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6/8/06, International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm]]</span>)
In recent months...peace and true security

Small and portable, existential threat – highest-level officials agree
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Nunn 11/16</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Sam, Senator, “NATO, Nuclear Security and the Terrorist Threat” International Herald Tribune,
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/17/opinion/17iht-ednunn.html?_r=3&ref=global]]</span> bb)
If we don't address this...acquisition targets for terrorists

Nuclear terror highest probability
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">GSN 8/6</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, August 6, 2010, “WMD terrorism remains grave threat, U.S. says,” online:<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100806_6521.php]]</span>, Note: Text “Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism” removed from quotation for sake of clarity
The possibility that a terrorist...and scientific expertise

Extinction
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Toon et al. 7</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, “Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism,” online:<span style="color: blue;">[[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf]]</span>
To an increasing extent...scenarios and physical concerns

US retaliates, goes nuclear
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Speice ‘6</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Patrick F., JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427)
Accordingly, there is a significant...use of nuclear weapons

NPT Credibility on the brink, now key
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Allison ‘10</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Grahm, Director at Belfer Center for Science and Int’l Affairs, “Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats,” January,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19819/nuclear_disorder.html]]</span>)
The global nuclear order...everything feasible to prevent it

Removing TNWs solves NPT credibility.
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Avery ‘9</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (John, Associate Professor of Theoretical Chemistry, H.C. Ørsted Institute, University of Copenhagen, “The Way Is Open for a Nuclear Weapon-Free Northern Europe”, Active Nonviolence, January 22, p. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.active-nonviolence.org/?p=196]]</span>)
The strongest argument for...steps along the road

Nuclear war
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Utgoff ‘2</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”)
In sum, widespread proliferation...or even whole nations

Contention 5: Greek Relations: Perception of unwavering support for Turkey undermines relations
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kurdistan Observer News</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Service 4 8 </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">2006</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> “Free Kurdistan (Kurdistan, an ideal ally of US and Israel in the Middle East)”<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1611696/posts]]</span>
The majority of the thirty million...friendly relations with it

And, military presence betrays U.S.-Turkey bias, undermining cooperation
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Kirisci</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">,</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">‘2</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> ( Kemal is a Professor of International Relations, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Boðaziçi University, “The "enduring rivalry" between Greece and Turkey: can 'democratic peace' break it?”<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.alternativesjournal.net/volume1/number1/kririsci.htm]]</span> )
The logic of 'prisoner's dilemma'..in the American Congress

Removing military support for Turkey solves relations
Speros </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Vryonis,</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Jr., Ph.D., Director of the Speros Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenis, authority on Greek and Byzantine history and has served as director of the Alexander Onassis Center of New York University, former professor of history at UCLA, Summer </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">1997</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">. [2 UCLA J. Int'l L. & For. Aff. 69, POINT-COUNTERPOINT: AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE ONGOING GRECO-TURKISH CRISIS AS A CONTRIBUTING FACTOR TO DESTABILIZATION, p. ln]
Greece is the sole...state of affairs

Key to Balkan stability, terrorism, and prolif.
Daniel </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Speckhard</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, U.S. Ambassador to Greece, 3-26-</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">2009</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">. [Wilson Center, Resilience and Transition: Resetting U.S.-Greece Relations,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/index.cfm?topic_id=109941&fuseaction=topics.event_summary&event_id=512862]]</span>]
In turn, the previous administration...over the past years

And, Balkans are a powder keg—results in great power wars.
Nikolaus </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Blome</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, staff writer, 4-3-</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">1999</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">. [Text of a report by Die Welt, Translated by BBC Monitoring Europe – Political, “The new NATO, quite the same,” p. ln]
Ultimately, for peace in Bosnia...freedom of another attempt

Balkans conflict probability higher than ever
</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Grygiel ‘9</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, Jakub, George H.W. Bush Assoc Prof, IR, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Johns Hopkins U (“Vacuum Wars: The Coming Competition Over Failed States,” American Interest, Jul/Aug 2009, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=622]]</span>)
These scenarios are not at all...falling under Russian control

That spills over to nuclear war, bringing in the US.
John S. </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Duffield</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, Winter 1994-</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">95</span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">. [Political Science Quarterly 109(5), NATO’s functions after the cold war, p. Academic Search Premier]
In all these ways...existence of nuclear weapons </span>//

=Negative= 

==Anthropocentrism K== 

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Spanos’ ontology is thoroughly anthropocentric – he sees humanity as bearing a burden for caring for the rest of the world, even Spanos considers himself a humanist</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton,</span> </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position-x: 100%; background-position-y: 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat;">[[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&]]</span><span style="color: black;">, TH)</span></span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">So thursday was … answered your question.</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">This turns the case – their ontology merely expands what counts as civilized life, rather than contesting the devision between human and non-human</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton,</span> </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position-x: 100%; background-position-y: 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat;">[[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&]]</span><span style="color: black;">, TH)</span></span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">Humanism (for Spanos) … valorization of life.</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">Speciesism must be rejected—the ongoing killing of animals is the equivalent of a continuous Holocaust and slavery. Additionally, this domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war—the k turns and solves the case.</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">Best 07—Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso [Dr. Steven, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">In this context … against animals.</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">The alternative is vote negative to jam the anthropological machine and its ability to create distinctions between species forms – only breaking away from an ontology of human vs. animal allows us to solve</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">Calarco ‘7 (Matthew, Assist. Prof. of Philosophy @ SUNY Binghamton, “Jamming the Anthropological Machine,” Sovereignty & Life, pgs. 178-179 bb)</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">It should come … irreparable and unsavable?</span> </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><span style="line-height: 19px;">Plans Good K</span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><span style="line-height: 19px;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gotta have a plan—failure to have a concrete option we can debate against guarantees that oppression continues and efforts for change backfire
STEVE 2007 (Anonymous member of Black Block and Active Transformation who lives in East Lansing, MI, Date Last Mod. Feb 8,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nadir.org/nadir/initiativ/agp/free/global/a16dcdiscussion.htm]]</span>)
What follows is … a new state.

Vote Negative:
First, the Aff should lose—lack of a concrete plan makes any positive change impossible either in debate or the world at large and only empowers reactionary forces—they undermine the purpose of debate which is to teach us good decision-making skills that we can use in any context

Second, this is not a framework argument—whether debate is about policy, activism, or identity, plans are necessary for practical reasons—this is a solvency turn, not a normative rule or a theory argument

Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change
BRANHAM 1995 (Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)
In the years … generated by confrontation. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">
</span>
==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deterrence K</span>== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff is a performance of credibility for the other - it centers political decisionmaking around the question of how we believe other people perceive us. This belief in the other's belief constructs a system of deterrence which we use as a code to dictate for us how to conduct our military policy.
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">McCanles ’84</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Michael, Prof. of English @ Marquette, Machiavelli and the Paradoxes of Deterrence, Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism, (Summer, 1984), pp. 12-19, JSTOR)
On the one hand, the __...__** until the text posits it.

Wars are not isolated events or accidents. Instead, breakdowns are embedded in the very fabric of the international system itself and can only come out of the dangerous situation produced by deterrence. A “fog of war” ensures uncertainty in our knowledge of the other’s belief, The aff obscures our role in producing situations of danger and creating the conditions for violence.
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chaloupka ’92</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (William, Chair of Political Science @ Colorado State, Knowing Nukes, pgs. 12-16)
Even our best signs of ... the bases for fateful decisions."45

The aff’s mediation of their military reduction with the symbolic economy of deterrence ensures genocide and destruction
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Zupancic ‘00</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Alenka, Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March, p. 96-7)
“Another problem still remains, however: ... </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">a by-product' of our actions.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">

Thus the alternative: In the face of the 1ac, the judge should vote negative to say “I would prefer not to.”

While the affirmative plan remains trapped in the logic of deterrence, the pure negativity of our alternative refuses to acknowledge “belief in the other’s belief”- only our strategy of radical indifference can wipe the slate of politics clean and open space for new modes of decisionmaking
</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Zizek ‘6</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Slavoj, Institute for Social Sciences Ljubljana, The Parallax View, pgs. 380-384)
And this brings us back ... makes his presence so unbearable.</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cap K</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Herod Version </span>=== 
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff’s “we should” mentality is a fundamentally bankrupt political strategy – the government is not benevolent and merely messing up, it is pursuing the 1AC’s policies of destruction on purpose. The political question of the 1AC is fundamentally irrelevant because it assumes a democracy that doesn’t exist – we cannot “fix” the government’s policies because in the government’s view, they are already correct</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2001</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October,</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9]]</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Accessed 6/27/10)</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">So what has been</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">the ...</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">this series of haunting mistakes?"</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">

<span class="apple-style-span">We must directly engage the violence of political economy- attempting to address particular glitches within the system of capital ensures its smooth functioning because it reproduces it as a symbolic background for politics- smashing this frame is a pre-requisite to ethical action</span>
</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zizek and Daly ‘4</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Slavoj and Glyn, “Conversations with Zizek”, pg. 14-16)</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">For Zizek it is imperative ... in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">The alternative is to reject the aff in favor of broad-based bottom up movements – we must abandon old institutions of Empire.</span>
</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sherman, 2k10</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Steven, “The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement”, Dissident Voice, March 10,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/]]<span style="color: black;">)</span></span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">The</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">anti-war movement</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in the ... of Latin America, among others).</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">

</span>


===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Materialism Version </span>=== 

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">The affirmative’s textual games are necessary to capitalism’s functioning – we must begin from a material criticism of capitalism</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">Ebert in 95 (Teresa L., English, State University of New York, Albany, Rethinking Marxism
Association for Economic and Social Analysis, vol 8 no 2, The Knowable Good--Post-al Ethics,
the Question of Justice and Red Feminism, index found here,</span> </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/gr/gsce/d/rm.htm#95]]<span style="color: black;">, article here,</span>[[http://www.geocities.com/redtheory/AO/AOVol5-1RedFeminism.html]]</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">)</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">
<span class="apple-style-span">What remains of ... stages of capitalism.</span>


<span class="apple-style-span">We must directly engage the violence of political economy- attempting to address particular glitches within the system of capital ensures its smooth functioning because it reproduces it as a symbolic background for politics- smashing this frame is a pre-requisite to ethical action</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">Zizek and Daly ‘4 (Slavoj and Glyn, “Conversations with Zizek”, pg. 14-16)</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">For Zizek it ... otherwise sound matrix.</span>


<span class="apple-style-span">The Alternative is to practice nothingness. Our withdrawal clears the way for revolutionary activity – negativity is a pre-requisite to positive political change.</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">Vighi and Feldner, 2009 (Fabio, PhD, lecturer in Italian at the School of European Studies at Cardiff University, and Heiko, PhD, Lecturer in Modern German History at Cardiff University, “Pathological Attachments: Slavoj Zizek on Anticapitalism and Liberal Democracy,” Rethinking Marxism Volume 21 Number 2, April, p. 295-296, TH)</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">From this viewpoint ... comes into play. </span></span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span></span>







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]