[[toc]]
For cite requests email [[mailto:zachmarkovich@gmail.com|zachmarkovich@gmail.com]]

=Aff= 
=Gonzaga Semis Aff= 
**http://www.nlcnet.org/reports?id=0527**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Mr. Sabur, who is 26 years old and from Bangladesh, started working at the **U.S. military base Camp Arifjan** in Kuwait in January 2008. He had to pass through three security check points manned by Kuwaiti police before he could enter the base. Along with 300 other guest workers, his job was to clean the base. The workers cleaned tanks, rocket launchers and missiles as well as office and living spaces, including the bathrooms. **//He worked the night shift from 6:30 p.m. to 5:30 a.m. the following morning seven days a week. Given the 11-hour shift, seven days a week, Mr. Sabur was putting in a 77-hour work week.//** He was allowed a one hour break at midnight to eat his supper.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">For the 70 hours of work, he was paid just **//$34.72//** a week, or **//50 cents an hour, which is 45 percent short//** of the 90-cent-an-hour wage he was guaranteed when he purchased his contract to work in Kuwait. Even without including overtime premium or night shift differential, he should have earned at least $63 for the 70 hour work week, and not the $34.72 he was paid. **//Mr. Sabur was cheated of $28.28 each week in wages due him, and $857.17 for the seven months of 2008 that he worked on the U.S. military base.//** This is an enormous amount of money for these poor workers. Mr. Sabur said that the U.S. troops themselves were always very kind and decent to him.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Mr. Sabur began working in Kuwait on May 19, 2006 for the **//Kuwait Waste Collection and Recycling Company//**, which has 2,000 guest worker employees. **//His passport was immediately confiscated by company management.//** Mr. Sabur had to pay 185,000 taka—$2,696.79—to an employment recruiting agency in Bangladesh to purchase his three-year contract to work in Kuwait. His family sold everything they could—land, animals, tools, jewelry—so their son would have the money to go to Kuwait. They were still 30,000 taka ($437.23) short, which they had to borrow from a neighbor. In the Bangladeshi countryside, the interest rate to borrow money in the informal market is at least **//eight percent a month//**. Essentially, the initial $437.23 loan doubles each year if it is not paid off. This is why the hundreds of thousands of guest workers in Kuwait are in a trap, racing against time to pay off their debts.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Because he was being cheated of his lawful wages at the Arifjan U.S. military base, Mr. Sabur was forced to take a second job with the **Ummal Hammal** company, cleaning schools nine hours a day, at least six days a week. Mr. Sabur worked from 5:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the school and only had time to quickly eat lunch and sleep for just three hours before starting his 6:30 p.m. to 5:30 a.m. shift at the U.S. military base. **//Mr. Sabul was working 131 hours a week and trying to get by on just three hours of sleep a day!//**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Mr. Sabur and his colleagues were housed in a dilapidated six-story building in the Mahboula area where eight workers were crowded into small 10-by-10-foot room, sleeping on double-level bunk beds.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">To prepare their food, 24 workers shared a single gas range with three burners. The water supply to the dorm was irregular and limited. On some days, the workers were allowed less than a gallon of water each—to drink, bathe and cook with.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Before joining the U.S. military base in January 2008, Mr. Sabur worked cleaning roads and buildings for the Kuwaiti government under contract with the same Kuwaiti Waste Collection and Recycling company. While cleaning Kuwaiti government property, he was paid just **//28 cents an hour and $13.37 a week, which is 70 percent short of the 90 cents an hour and $43.40 a week he was supposed to earn when he signed his contract.//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">The Kuwaiti Waste Collection and Recycling Company also **//illegally withheld his first three months wages.//** During his first three months in Kuwait—despite working cleaning government property—he had to borrow money from his fellow workers just to survive.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Near the end of 2007, Mr. Sabur asked his supervisor, Mr. Osman, to please pay the proper wages according to his contract. **//The supervisor responded by beating him.//** All across Kuwait, guest workers are frightened of being beaten and deported if they ask for their basic rights. Like Mr. Sabur, workers have little choice but to keep quiet. "Workers don't usually open their mouths," Mr. Sabur explained. </span>


**Slave labor is dehumanization and morally apprehensible- destroying all value to life**
**Allen 01** (Michael Thad, PhD in history-taught at Yale and Georgia Institute of Technology, The Business of Genocide: The SS, Slave Labor, and The Concentration camps, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=]]</span>)
**__Labor imposed a routine, ....__** **__designed to maximize brutality.__**
== == 
<span class="Tags">The role of the ballot is to endorse the best strategy for encountering alterity.</span>
<span class="Tags">Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed. </span>
<span class="Tags">Meszaros 89</span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Istvan, likes Marx not Adam Smith. The Power of Ideology, p 232-234)</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality – the self-</span>.... theory</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">or philosophy</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">can escape. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ethics comes before knowledge – there is an obligation to consider our responsibility to the other, prior to any calculations based on external knowledge.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gottlieb, 94</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Roger S, professor of humanities at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. ETHICS AND TRAUMA: LEVINAS, FEMINISM, AND DEEP ECOLOGY. Cross Currents Summer94, Vol. 44 Issue 2, p222, 19p. http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm)ZDM</span></span></span>

<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is this sense of knowledge of things that Levinas tries to capture under .... from Parmenides to positivism.<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm#FN6|(6)]]</span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The only way to escape the horrific solitude of being is by prioritizing the responsibility for the other.</span></span></span>
<span class="Tags">Levinas and Nemo 85</span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, Pg 47-50)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">E.L.:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">It deals with</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">what I call</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">the "there is" [il y a</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">..., , still appeared to me necessary as the very test of dis-inter-estedness.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When confronted with a face-to-face encounter we are forced to respond – any choice other than to acknowledge our infinite responsibility to the other will result in violence.</span></span></span>
<span class="Tags">Levinas and Nemo 85</span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985 Pg 86-88)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined">There is first the very uprightness of .... <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> fact that the Other is known to me.</span></span>


<span class="Tags">Affirming our infinite responsibility to the other in every instance is key to short circuiting the logic that allows wars to occur.</span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, p 13-15 )</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Radical alterity figures in Levinas’ thought not as a flaw, an ... </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"> **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">an infinite responsibility before other.</span>** </span>

=Affirmative -- Whitman= 
1AC Inherency
__Contention One: Inherency__
Obama’s committed to a lengthy counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan – public backlash is piggybacking Iraq War fatigue, and his Middle East strategy decision will guide all future foreign policy.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kitfield 2009</span></span> (James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]])
<span class="UnderlineChar">As the administration reconsiders its ... and difficult nation building by civilians.</span>
1AC Plan Text
Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all troops engaged in counterinsurgency presence activities in Afghanistan.
1AC Terror
Contention Two: Terror
Terrorists get the bomb by 2013 – deployment would cause nuclear fallout and mass starvation.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Boston Globe 2010</span></span> [Brian MacQuarrie – Globe Staff. “Clear and Present Nuclear Threats,” 7/25 http://www.boston.com/ae/movies/articles/2010/07/25/countdown_to_zero_examines_two_dangers_nuclear_threats_and_public_complacency/?page=2]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline">Americans have plenty on their plates: ... somewhere in the world <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">before </span>the end of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2013</span>,’’ Allison said. </span></span>
Al Qaeda will procure fissile material now.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Evans 2010</span></span> [Michael, Pentagon correspondent for The Times, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material” http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline">Terrorists including al-Qaeda ...</span> black market in central Asia, contact any disgruntled Soviet scientist, and dozens of smart briefcase bombs are available."</span>
Counterinsurgency increases Al-Qaeda recruitment and fosters extremism.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Simon and Stevenson 2009</span></span> [Steven, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Jonathan, Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College – October, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, Volume 51, Issue 5 October 2009 , pages 47 – 67]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">To be sure<span class="DebateUnderline">, the re-Talibanisation of ... and with it fewer casualties and lower expenditures in Afghanistan - </span>over the next few years. </span>
Afghanistan is the critical flashpoint for Al Qaeda – eliminating safe havens eliminates the possibility for a strike on the homeland.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Arkedis 2009</span></span> [Jim Arkedis, director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute, former counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service – October 23, Foreign Policy “Why A<span style="font-family: 华文细黑;">l Q</span>a<span style="font-family: 华文细黑;">e</span>da <span style="font-family: 华文细黑;">W</span>ant<span style="font-family: 华文细黑;">s a</span> Safe Haven” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven?page=0,2 ty]
As deliberations about the Obama ...<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> best bet is to deny al Qaeda the only physical space it can access</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>
Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ayson 2010</span></span> (Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions, InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—... a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.
No risk of backsliding – the plan builds a self-sustaining strategy using local solutions.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 10</span></span> (THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, American journalist, columnist and multi Pulitzer Prize winning author. He is an op-ed contributor to The New York Times, whose column appears twice weekly. He has written extensively on foreign affairs including global trade, the Middle East and environmental issues. He has won the Pulitzer Prize three times, twice for International Reporting (1983, 1988) and once for Commentary (2002), June 22, 2010, “What’s Second Prize?”, https://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/23/opinion/23friedman.html)
__It is not about the way. ...____**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> lose early, </span>**__lose late,**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> lose big </span>__**or lose small. 
1AC Hegemony
Contention Three: Hegemony
<span class="Author-Date">U.S. hegemony is sustainable – declinists mistake trends for outcomes and only look at one measure of power.</span>
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Brooks and Wohlforth 2009</span></span> [Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Only a few years ago, pundits were ... to change their policies, and the same is true of most terrorists. </span>
Obama’s grand strategy suffers from the same irrational exuberance – continued entanglement drives war fatigue that will force us toward retrenchment.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kober 2010</span></span> (Stanley, research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, "Paying for War," February 23, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11246]])
On December 1, President Barack ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">recognize that our example is important</span>, and we should always be conscious of the example we are setting.
Central Asian land war perpetuates domestic backlash and overstretch – that undermines power projection and trends toward isolationism.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kretkowski 2010</span></span> [Paul, assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.htm]]]

Over the winter break I had an ...<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> long as it is tied down by</span> one or more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">land wars in Asia</span>. </span>
It’s reverse causal – ending the war makes primacy durable.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Norris and Sweet 10</span></span> [John, executive Director of Enough and Former Chief of Political Affairs for the UN Mission in Nepal, and Andrew, Research Assistant @ American Progress, “Less Is More,” June 8th, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/less_is_more.html]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">“<span class="DebateUnderline">If we are to meet the</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> myriad <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span></span> the capabilities and funding to be effective policy partners in promoting our interests internationally.</span>
Domestic support is the lynchpin of global hegemony – even if we’re the strongest, our hands will be tied.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kupchan and Trubowitz 2007</span></span> [Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “Grand Strategy for a Divided America” Foreign Affairs July/August]
Although <span class="UnderlineChar">Lippmann</span> was mindful of the economic .... continues to look to the United States for leadership. 
A counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Stewart 2009</span></span>- Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce</span></span> ... In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.
Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and restores credibility
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Stewart 2010</span></span><span style="color: black;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)</span>

<span style="color: black;">But this moderate tone gains .... </span><span class="UnderlineChar">for a lighter involvement in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir</span><span style="color: black;">.1 </span>
American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Thayer 2006</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>
A grand strategy based .... primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 


=Glenbrooks Aff= 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Contention One: Inherency</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Thousands of Kuwaiti workers are having their rights abused working at American military bases.</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">World Tribune </span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">9/4/</span></span><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">08</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Report: S. Asian workers at U.S. base in Kuwait deprived of rights, http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2008/ss_gulf0493_09_04.asp)ZDM</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt;"><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Hundreds of Asians are laboring under abusive conditions at a U.S. military base in Kuwait</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The National Labor Committee reported that </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">nationals</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> from Bangladesh</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">were <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">working 11 hours a day</span> seven days a week</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">at Camp Arifjan. The report said the Asian </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">laborers, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">stripped of th</span>e<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">ir passports</span>, were <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">cleaning tanks, rocket launchers and missiles</span>, as well as office and living spaces</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, Middle East Newsline reported. "It would be a horrible turn of events if Operation Desert Storm and</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">all the sacrifices made by U.S. troops have</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">in some way</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">freed Kuwait to traffic in hundreds of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">thousands of foreign guest workers</span>, who are <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">stripped of their passports, forced to work long hours, cheated of their wages, and then beaten and deported</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">when they ask that their most basic rights be respected," NLC director Charles Kernaghan said. The report, titled "Guest Workers Trafficked to Kuwait, Stripped of their Passports and Forced to Work Seven Days a Week at a U.S. Military Base, while Cheated of Half their Wages," said</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Asian</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">laborers were being paid $34.72 for working 70 hours</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, when they should have earned at least $63. "In just the first seven months of 2008, </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">while working at the U.S. base, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the</span> guest <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">workers were cheated of over $250,000</span> in wages</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">," the report, released on Aug. 21, said. "</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">The Kuwaiti </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">companies working under contract with the U.S. military base also</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">illegally withheld three months of the workers' wages." The report said the workers have been housed in squalid dorms, with eight workers crowded into each small</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">10-by-10-foot</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">room, sleeping on</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">narrow, </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">double-level bunk beds.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">NLC, which urged Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to intervene, said</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">supervisors threatened to beat the workers if they asked for their proper pay</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">. Kuwait has been battling rising labor unrest</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">from Asian expatriates,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">who complained of being cheated of their wages. This was the first time that the U.S. military was reported to have been involved in the </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">improprieties. The report said </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Kuwait hosts about 22,000 U.S. soldiers</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> and advisers.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Camp Arifjan has hosted the repair, maintenance and overhaul of U.S. ground platforms. The report said on July 27, Asian and other foreign</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">laborers held a strike</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in Camp Arifjan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to protest poor conditions and withheld salaries.</span></span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">"Workers from the U.S. military base who had not participated</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in the demonstration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">were attacked</span> in their dorms <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">by Kuwaiti police</span>, who fired teargas and kicked and beat the workers with clubs," the report said. "The workers were imprisoned for five days, where they were again beaten, before being forcibly deported </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">to Bangladesh without the $5,000 or more in back wages due them."</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">This represents a crime against humanity.</span></span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Phinney </span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">10/17/</span></span><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">07</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (David, journalist and broadcaster based in Washington, DC, whose work has appeared in The Los Angeles Times, New York Times and on ABC and PBS, #5 Human Traffic Builds US Embassy in Iraq, http://www.projectcensored.org/top-stories/articles/5-human-traffic-builds-us-embassy-in-iraq/)ZDM</span></span>
= = 
= = 
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">When I first heard that Project Censored would recognize this story on the low-wage migrant laborers from South Asia building the US embassy in Baghdad, I admit I felt the story was a failure.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Allegations of forced labor, lousy treatment of workers and beatings</span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">struck me as something that</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">should rise to the level of torture at Abu Ghraib</span>.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Despite what appears to be a whitewash review of the embassy project by the State Department Inspector General that exonerated the contractor—even though more than a dozen sources on the site say conditions were abysmal—I am now encouraged by a recent effort at the US Justice Department to investigate allegations of labor trafficking and other matters. Bu</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">t</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the problem of labor abuse has been found to be “widespread” among contractors </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">in the theater of war in Iraq. Unfortunately,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">not one contractor has been penalized</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">—in fact, </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">many are being rewarded with new US-funded contracts. That <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is a crime to humanity that may haunt the United States</span> for years to come.</span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Contention Two: Better Than Being</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A) Alterity – the infinite divide between the self and other ensures that relations with others take a preeminence.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, Pg 57 -61)ZDM</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">E.L.: Solitude was an "existentialist" theme. At the time existence was described as the despair of solitude, or as the isolation within anxiety. The book represents an attempt to escape from this isolation of existing, as the preceding book signified an attempt to escape from the "there is." There also, there are two stages. First I examine an "exit" toward the world, in knowledge. My effort consists in showing that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">knowledge is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in reality <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">an immanence</span>, and that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">there is no rupture of</span> the isolation of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">being</span> in knowl- edge; and on the other hand, that in </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">the</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> communication </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">of knowledge</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> one is found beside the Other</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, not confronted with him, not in the rectitude of the in-front-of him. But being in direct relation with the Other is not to thematize the Other and consider him in the same manner one considers a known object, nor to communicate a knowledge to him. In reality,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the fact of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">being is what is most private; existence</span> is the sole thing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">I cannot communicate</span>; I can tell about it, but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">I cannot share my existence</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Solitude thus appears here as the isolation which marks the very event of being. The social is beyond ontology. Ph.N.: You write: "It is banal to say we never exist in the singular. Weare surrounded by beings and things with which we maintain relations. Through sight, touch, sympathy and common work we are with others. All these relations are transitive.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">I touch an object, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">I see the other; but I am not the other.</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> E.L.: What is formulated here is the putting into question of this with, as possibility of escaping solitude. Does "existing with" represent a veritable sharing of existence? How is this sharing realized? Or again (for the word "sharing" would signify that existence is of the order of having): Is there a participation in being which makes us escape from solitude? Ph.N.:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">One can only share what one has, one cannot share what one is</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">? E.L.: For that matter, the fundamental rela- tion with being, in Heidegger, is not the relationship with the Other, but with death, where everything that is non-authentic in the relationship with the Other is denounced, since one dies alone. Ph.N.:</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> You follow: "I am all alone, it is thus the being in me, the fact that I exist, my existing, which constitutes the absolutely intransitive element, something without intentionality, without relation. One can exchange everything between beings, except existing</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. In this sense, to be is to be isolated by existing. I am monad inasmuch as I am. It is by existing that I am without doors or windows, and not through any content in me which would be incom- municable. If it is incommunicable it is that it is rooted in my being, which is what is most private in me. In this way, every enlargement of my conscious- ness, of my means of expression, remains without effect on my relation with existing, the interior rela- tion par excellence." E.L.: One must indeed understand nonethe- less that solitude is not in itself the primary theme of these reflections. It is only one of the marks of being. It is not a matter of escaping from solitude, but rather of escaping from being Ph.N.: Thus, the first solution is the escaping from the self which constitutes the relation to the world in knowledge and in what you call "nourishments." E.L.: By that I understand all terrestrial-nourish- ments: the enjoyments through which the subject eludes his solitude. The very expression "to elude one's solitude" indicates the illusory and purely apparent character of this escape from the self. In what concerns knowledge: it is by essence a relation with what one equals and includes, with that whose alterity one suspends, with what becomes immanent, because it is to my measure and to my scale. I think of Descartes, who said that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the cogito can give itself the sun and sky; the only thing it cannot give itself is the idea of the Infinite</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Knowledge is always an adequation between thought and what it thinks. There is in knowledge, in the final account, an impossibility of escaping the self;</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">hence <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">sociality cannot have the same structure as knowledge</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Ph.N.: There is here something paradoxical. F or the ordinary consciousness, to the con trary, knowledge is almost by definition what makes us escape ourselves. Even though you maintain that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">in knowledge, even of</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> the stars, of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">what is farthest, we remain within the</span> element of the "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">same</span>"? E.L.: Knowledge has always been interpreted as assimilation. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Even the most surprising discoveries end by being absorbed,</span> comprehended, with all that there is of "prehending" in "comprehending." The most audacious and remote knowledge does not put us in communion with the truly other; it does not take the place of sociality; it is still and always a solitude</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Ph.N.: You speak in this regard of knowledge as a light; what is illuminated is thus possessed. E.L.: Or possessable. Up to the remotest stars. Ph.N.: By distinction, the escape from solitude is going to be a dispossession or a detachment? E.L.:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Sociality will be a way of escaping being</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> otherwise than through knowledge</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">In this book the demonstration is not dealt with in its entirety, but it is time which appeared to me then as an enlargement of existence. The book shows first some structures in the relationship with the Other which do not reduce to intentionality. It puts in doubt the Husserlian idea that intentionality represents the very spirituality of spirit. And the book tries to understand the role of time in this relationship: time is not a simple experi- ence of duration, but a dynamism which leads us elsewhere than toward the things we possess. It is as if in time there were a movement beyond what is equal to us. Time as relationship to unattainable alterity and, thus, interruption of rhythm and its returns. The two principal analyses which support this thesis in Time and the Other concern, on the one hand, the erotic relationship, relationship - without confusion - with the alterity of the feminine; and, on the other hand, the relationship of paternity going from me to another who, in a certain sense, is still me and nevertheless is absolutely other: temporality brought near to the concreteness and logical paradox of fecundity. These are</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">relationships with alterity</span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">which</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">contrast</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> strongly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">with those whereby the Same dominates</span> or absorbs or includes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the other</span>, and whose model is knowledge. </span></span></span>


<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">B) Infinite questioning -- A focus on ethical relations is the only way to avoid a never ending cycle of questioning that prevents any form of positive action.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985P 4-13)ZDM</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Heidegger's question</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> seems the most philo- sophical of questions: "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">What is . .</span> .?" What is thinking? What is poetry? What is technology</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">?</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">And now, what is ethics? If in this question we can uncover an onto-theo-Iogical bent, then we are on the way to grasping its inappropriateness with regard to ethics, if indeed ethics survives the end of metaphysics. Perhaps, by doing this, the mystery and strangeness which surrounds the later writings of Heidegger, the peculiar meanderings of his path out of metaphysics can be grasped in an entirely new way</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> the very question of essence, the "What is. . .?" question, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">itself</span> too <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">metaphysically compromised</span>?</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The mind rebels. What could be more essential to any sort of intelligent inquiry, to any sort of think- ing, than to ask what something is, to seek its essence, to know it as it is, in its manifestation?</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">What is more unavoidable than asking what ethics is</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">to discover if ethics is onto-theo-Iogical and hence metaphysical in the corrupting sense? Since Socrates thought has been intimately tied to the cautions which inhere in the question of es- sence. We insist on asking and knowing what some- thing is before committing ourselves to action or belief. Indeed, such caution has become our very action, our reserve and wariness. Knowledge of the essence, essential knowledge, precedes the existen- tial: Socrates thought before he acted, he pauses before the symposium, to contemplate, to delib~rate, to ask what's what. "</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">To know the good," he taught, "is to do the good"; so tied were thinking and human being.</span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Socrates defeated the "ignorance" of opponent after opponent with his questioning. His interlocu- tors learned that they must first know the good in order to then do it, that they must be philosophers, lovers of wisdom before all else. But Nietzsche and Heidegger have made Soc- rates suspect too. Their suspicions, the inversions they point to, are not, however, what I wish to pursue for the moment. Rather, it is the essentialist form these suspicions still take that is of greater import.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">We must ask what is the "What is . . .?" question</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. In Socrates' hands it led to the inversion of conscious- ness and instincts, the sacrifice of the latter to the former. But what of this question in Heidegger's hands? Are we not in need of still more precautions?</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Must we</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> not step back from this question to raise another, to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">recognize the obvious circularity of ask- ing what is the "What is . . .?"</span> question? It seems to beg the question. Is our new suspicion, then, that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Heidegger begs the question of metaphysics when he asks "What is poetry?" or "What is thinking</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">?"? Yet his thought is insistently anti-metaphysical. Why, then, does he retain the metaphysical question par excellence? Aware of just such an objection, he pro- poses, against the vicious circle of the petitio principi, an alternative, productive circularity: hermeneutic questioning. To ask "What is . . .?" does not partake of onto-theo-Iogy if one acknowledges (1) that the answer can never be fixed absolutely, but calls essen- tially, endlessly, for additional "What is . . .?" ques- tions. Dialectical refinement here replaces vicious circularity. Further, beyond the openmindedness called for by dialectical refinement, hermeneutic questioning (2) insists on avoiding subjective impositions, on avoid- ing reading into rather than harkening to things. One must harken to the things themselves, ultimately to being, in a careful attunement to what is. But do the refinement and care of the herme- neutic question - which succeed in avoiding onto- theo-Iogy - succeed in avoiding all viciousness? Certainly they convert a simple fallacy into a produc- tive inquiry, they open a path for thought. But is it not the case that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">however much refinement and care one brings to bear, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to ask what something is leads to asking what something else is, and so on and so forth, ad infinitum</span></span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">?</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">What is disturbing in this is not so much the infinity of interpretive depth, which has the virtue of escaping onto-theo-Iogy and remaining true to the way things are, to the phenomena, the coming to be and passing away of being. Rather</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, the problem lies in the influence the endlessly open horizon of such thinking exerts on the way of such thought</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. That is,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the problem lies in</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">what seems to be the very virtue of hermeneutic thought, namely,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the doggedness of the "What is .</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> . .?" question, in <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">its inability to escape</span> itself, to escape <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">being</span> and essence.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">But what could be more inescapable than being and essence? Isn't such a "probkm" mere silliness, or return to onto-theo-Iogy, the craving for a beyond? In what way is the doggedness of essential question- ing a constraint, a viciousness? In what way is an attuned predisposition toward being and essence - what else could there be? - a flaw?</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">The</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">only</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">way such questioning can be recognized as problematic is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> by introducing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">another sort of questioning, a questioning structured entirely other- wise</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, while at the same time structured in a way which is not itself onto-theo-Iogical.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Such is the ethi- cal question</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">. Rather than asking what ethics is, in the hope of finding out whether ethics is onto-theo- logical or not, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">one can ask if ethics is better than being</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. This sort of question is not an essential question. It does not - no matter how respectfully - call for more vision. The ethical question does not merely contrast with the question of essence, as if onto- logical and ethical questions operated on the same horizon, under the same light; they are not on the same plane. More-over, the question of essence - "What is ethics?" - positively and precisely excludes the force of the ethical question. It collapses the "what ought to be" of ethics into the "what is" of ontology. I almost said it obscures the ethical question, but the point is that the very standards of obscurity and clarity are already standards of being and es- sence.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">The approach of the ethical</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> question, to the contrary, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is</span> and must be immediately one of moral height, of obligation and responsibility not for what is, but for <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">what ought to be. Ethics</span> is not merely different from thinking, in which case it would even- tually be absorbed by thinking's play of differences, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">cuts across ontology, it is</span> radically and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">irreducibly </span></span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">"otherwise than being</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> or beyond essence</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">." The result of the above excursus into the influ- ence of language on questioning seems to be the emergence of two questions rather than one. With the end of onto-theo-Iogical metaphysics, (1) is ethics still better? Does the term "better" still carry moral force, divorced from reality claims, from God, sub- stance, transcendental ego, etc.? Or, there remains what appears to be the most philosophical of ques- tions, (2) what is ethics really, if it is anything at all, with the end of onto-theo-Iogical metaphysics? De- pending on which sort of question one asks first, an ethical or an ontological results follows. It seems, then, that the viciousness of question begging has merely been doubled rather than vitiated. Ethical questions yield ethical answers (perhaps). Essential questions yield essential answers. It is important to see that this is not so, or that if it is so then the "fault" lies with essential question- ing. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">To be, according to Levinas, is not enough, even if such being takes responsibility for the unfolding of being, for the ongoing revelation of worlds. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">There is a trap in essential questioning, an ad infinitum neglectful of its own</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;"> condition. Ethics</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, in Levinas' view,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">occurs "prior" to essence and being</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, conditioning them</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Not, however, because the good is installed in a Heaven above or an identity behind identities, for this would just take the ontological move one step back, would again fall back into onto-theo-Iogy, once more confusing ethics with ontology, as if what "ought to be" somehow ",is."</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">What ethics is does not survive the end of metaphysics - but only because ethics never was or is anything. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Ethics does not have an essence</span>, its "essence," so to speak, is precisely not to have an essence, to unsettle essences. Its "identity" is precisely not to have an identity, to undo identities</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Its "being" is not to be but to be better than being. Ethics is precisely ethics by disturbing the complacency of being</span>** </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(or of non-being, being's correlate).</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined">**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">To be or not to be," Levinas insists, is not the question</span></span>**</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Ethics occurs as an anarchy, the compassion of being. Its priority is affirmed without recourse to principles, without vision,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">in the irrecuperable shock of being-for-the-other-person before being-for- oneself</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, or being-with-others, or being-in-the-world, to name some of the contemporary philosophical formulas of post-metaphysical thought. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Ethical priority</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, according to Levinas, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">occurs as the moral height of the other person over being</span>, essence, iden- tity, manifestation, principles, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">i</span>n brief, over me. </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">There is more to being than being</span>**</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. The surplus of the other's nonencompassable alterity - not the alterity of horizons - is the way ethics intrudes, disturbs, commands being - from height and desti- tution. It is the demand made by the very face of the Other in a nakedness which pierces the face which can be objectified. "The face," Levinas says in the pages which follow, "is what one cannot kill, or it is that whose meaning consists in saying: 'thou shalt not kill.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">'</span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Murder</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, it is true, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is a banal fact; one can kill the Other; the ethical exigency is not an ontological necessity. The prohibition</span> against killing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">does not render murder impossible." It renders it evil.</span></span> **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">One can kill, but it is better not to</span>****<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> kill</span>**</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, howevermuch this "better" escapes thematization, representation, formalization, idealization, identification, and all the cautions of essential thinking.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">To know the good is already not to have done it. One does the good before knowing it - ethics lies in this "before," eternally scandalous to thought. Neither my consciousness nor my instincts are sufficient to the excessive demand the other places on me</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">They are cut to the quick. Yet shattered - as shattered, a fission, a "despite-myself," for "no one is good voluntarily," says Levinas - the subject rises to the occasion, subjected to the most passive passiv- ity, saying "Here I am." The crux of ethics lies in the non- encompassable yet non-indifferent relation be- tween the "better" and "being." It is a relation like no other, "a distance which is also proximity," Levi- nas wrote in 1946, "- which is not a coincidence or a lost union, but signifies all the surplus or all the goodness of an original sociality." Responsibility in proximity with the other is "more precious than the fact of being given.") It is also more demanding. As such, the ethical relation escapes thematiza- tion. To reduce it to a theme, a principle, a being, an arche, was the mistake of onto-theo-logy. To let being flow in the poetry of language, in its giftgiving, its play, is also to turn from the ethical exigency to the ontological exigency, for</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;"> being wants only to persevere in being. Ethics occurs</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">- to return posi- tively to Socrates -</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">across the hiatus of dialogue, not in the content of discourse</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, in the continuities or discontinuities of what is said, but in the demand for response. "It is better," Socrates said, "to suffer evil than to do it." Socrates didn't realize that he could not prove this point, even though it was in effect while he spoke.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">The responsibility</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> to respond to the other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is,</span> for Levinas, precisely the inordinate responsibility, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the infinite responsibility</span> of being-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">for-the-other</span> before oneself - the ethical relation.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">What is said</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[le dit]</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">can always be unsaid, re-said or revised - it is the saying</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> [le dire]</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">of it, the intrusion it effects, the interruption it inserts into continuities, as well as the passivity it calls forth, beneath identity, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">that ac- complishes the priority and anteriority of ethics. The only alterity sufficiently other to provoke response,</span> to subject the subject to the subjection of response </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">--which for Levinas is subjectivity itself, and the mean- ing of meaning, the event of ethics -</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">is the</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> absolute <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">alterity of the other person encountered in the</span> excessive immediacy of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">face-to-face</span>.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Radical alterity figures in Levinas' thought not as a flaw, an ignorance, an obscurity, a childishness, a laziness or a de<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">f</span>erral, but as the non-thematizable charge through which ethics commands.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">"What ought to be" - </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">the subject's response to the Other -</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> relates to "what is" </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">- being, essence, manifestation, phenomenon, identity -</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> not by some subtle or crude conversion into "what is," but by haunting it, dis- turbing it, raising it to a moral height of which it is not itself capable.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The alterity of the other raises the subject in a severe responsibility which bears all the weight of the world's seriousness in a non-indiffer- ence - with no ontological basis - for the other. </span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention Three: Responsibility Before the Other</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">A) Il y a – the only way to escape the horrific solitude of being is by prioritizing the responsibility for the other.</span></span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, Pg 47-50)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">E.L.:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">It deals with</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">what I call</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the "there is" [il y a</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">] l I did not know Apollinaire had written a work entitled There Is. But for him the expression signifies the joy of what exists, the abundance, a little like the Heideggerian "es gibt." For me, to the contrary, "</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">there is" is </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the phenomenon of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">impersonal being</span>: "it</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">." My reflection on this subject starts with child- hood memories.</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">One sleeps alone, the adults continue life; the child feels the silence </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">of his bedroom <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">as "rumbling. "</span></span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Ph.N.: A rumbling silence? E.L.: It is something resembling what one hears when one puts an empty shell close to the ear<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, </span></span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">as if the emptiness were full, as if the silence were a noise</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. It is something one can also feel when one thinks that even if there were nothing, the fact that "there is" is undeniable. Not that there is this or that; but</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the very scene of being is open: there is. In the absolute emptiness that one can imagine before creation-- there is.</span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Ph.N.: A moment ago you evoked the "es gibt," the German "there is," and the analysis Heidegger made of it as generosity, since in this "es gibt" there is the verb geben which signifies to give. For you, on the other hand, there is no generosity in the "there is"? E.L.:</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">I insist in fact on the impersonality of the "there is"; "there is," as "it rains," or "its night." <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">And there is neither joy nor abundance: it is a noise returning after every negation of this noise. Neither nothingness nor being</span></span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. I sometimes use the expres- sion: the excluded middle. One cannot say of this "there is" which persists that it is an event of being</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">One can neither say that it is nothingness, even though there is nothing</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">. Existence and Existents tries to describe this horrible thing, and </span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">moreover</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">describes it as horror and panic.</span> Ph.N.: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The child who</span> on his bed <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">senses the night dragging on has an experience of horror</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. . . E.L.: ... Which nevertheless is not an anxiety. The book appeared with a wrapper where I had inscribed: "Where it is not a question of anxiety." Everyone began to speak alot about anxiety in Paris, in 1947 . . . Other experiences, all close to the "there is," are described in this book, notably that of ins om- nia. In insomnia one can and one cannot say that there is an "I" which cannot manage to fall asleep. The impossibility of escaping wakefulness is some- thing "objective," independent of my initiative</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">This impersonality absorbs my consciousness; conscious- ness is depersonalized. I do not stay awake: "it" stays awake. Perhaps death is an absolute negation wherein "the music ends" (however, one knows noth- ing about it). But</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">in the maddening "experience"</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> of the "there is," <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">one has the impression of a total impossibility of escaping it, of "stopping the music</span></span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">." It is a theme I have found in Maurice Blanchot, even though he does not speak of the "there is," but of the "neutral" or the "outside." He has a number of very suggestive formulas: he speaks of the "hustle-bustle" of being, of its "clamor," its "mur- mur." A night in a hotel room where, behind the partition, "it does not stop stirring"; "one does not know what they are doing next door." This is some- thing very close to the "there is." It is not a matter of "states of the soul," but of an end of objectivizing consciousness, a psychological inversion. This is prob- ably the real subject of his novels and stories. Ph.N.: Do you mean to say that in Blanchot's works there is neither psychology nor sociology, but ontology? For in this "there is," whether it is horrible or not, what is at play is being? E.L.: In Blanchot</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">it is no longer being, and it is no longer "something," and it is always necessary to unsay what one says</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> - it is an event which is neither being nor nothingness. </span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">In his last book,2</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Blanchot called this "disaster,"</span> which signifies neither death nor an accident, but as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a piece of being which would be detached from its fixity of being, from its reference to a star, from all </span>cosmological <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">existence, a dis-aster</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">His gives an almost verbal sense to the substantive disaster. It seems that for him it is impossible to escape from this maddening, obsessive situation. In the short book of 1947 of which we are now speaking, as in that which followed it under the title of Time and the Other in 1948, the ideas to which I hold today are still sought, a good many of the intuitions arise which mark a distance covered rather than an ending. What is presented as exigency is an attempt to escape the "there is," to escape the non- sense. In Existence and Existents, I analyzed other modalities of being, taken in its verbal sense: fatigue, indolence, effort. In these phenomena I showed a dread before being, an impotent recoil, an evasion and, consequently, there too, the shadow of the "there is." Ph.N.:</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">What was the "solution</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">" you proposed? E.L.: My first idea was that perhaps <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a "being,"</span> a "something" <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">one could point at with a finger, corresponds to a mastery over the "there is</span></span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> which dreads in being.</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">I spoke thus of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the determinate</span> being or existent as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a dawn of clarity in the horror of the "there is," </span>a moment where the sun rises, where things appear for themselves, where <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">they are not borne by the "there is" but dominate it.</span></span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Does one not say that the table is, that things are?</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Then one refastens being to the existent, and already the ego there dominates the existents it possesses.</span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">I spoke thus of the "hypostasis" of existents, that is, the passage going from being to a something, from the state of verb to the state of thing. Being which is posited, I thought, is "saved." In fact</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">this idea was only a first stage. For <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the ego that exists is encumbered by all</span> </span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">these existents it dominates. For me the famous Heideggerian "Care" took the form of the cumber- someness of existence. From whence an entirely different movement:</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">to escape</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> the "there is" <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">one must</span> not <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">be</span> posed but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">deposed</span>; to make an act of deposition, in the sense one speaks of deposed kings. </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">This deposition of sovereignty by the ego is the social relationship with the Other</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">, </span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">the dis-inter-ested relation. I write it in three words to underline the escape from being it signifies. I distrust the compromised word "love," but</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the responsibility for the Other</span>, being-for-the-other, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">seemed</span> </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">to me, as early as that time</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to stop the anonymous and senseless rumbling</span> of being. It is in the form of such a relation that the deliverance from the "there is" appeared to me</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Since that compelled my recognition and was clarified in my mind, I have hardly spoken again in my books of the "there is" for itself. But the shadow of the "there is," and of non- sense, still appeared to me necessary as the very test of dis-inter-estedness.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">B) When confronted with a face-to-face encounter we are forced to respond – any choice other than to acknowledge our infinite responsibility to the other will result in violence.</span></span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985 Pg 86-88)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">There is first the very uprightness of the face, its upright exposure, without defense</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">The skin of the face is that which stays most naked, most destitute. It is the most naked, though with a decent nudity</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">It is the most destitute also: there is an essential poverty in the face; the proof of this is that one tries to mask this poverty by putting on poses, by taking on a countenance. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The face is exposed</span>, menaced, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">as if inviting us to an act of violence. At the same time, the face is what forbids us to kill</span>. Ph.N.: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">War stories tell us</span> in fact that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">it is difficult to kill someone who looks straight at you</span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">E.L.: The face is signification, and significa- tion without context. I mean that the Other, in the rectitude of his face, is not a character within a context. Ordinarily one is a "character": a professor at the Sorbonne, a Supreme Court justice, son of so-and-so, everything that is in one's passport, the manner of dressing, of presenting oneself. And all signification in the usual sense of the term is relative to such a context: the meaning of something is in its relation to another thing. Here, to the contrary, the face is meaning all by itself. You are you. In this sense one can say that the face is not "seen". It is what cannot become a content, which your thought would embrace; it is uncontainable, it leads you beyond. It is in this that the signification of the face makes it escape from being, as a correlate of a knowing. Vision, to the contrary, is a search for adequation; it is what par excellence absorbs being. But</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the relation to the face is straightaway ethical. The face is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> what one cannot kill, or at least it is that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">whose meaning consists in saying: "thou shalt not kill</span>." Murder, it is true, is a banal fact: one can kill the Other; the ethical exigency is not an ontological necessity.</span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The prohibition against killing does not render murder impossible, even if the authority of the prohibition is maintained in the bad conscience about the accomplished evil - malignancy of evil. It also appears in the Scriptures, to which the humanity of man is exposed inasmuch as it is engaged in the world. But to speak truly, the appearance in being of these "ethical peculiarities" - the humanity of man- is a rupture of being. It is significant, even if being resumes and recovers itself. Ph.N.: The Other is face; but the Other, equal- ly, speaks to me and I speak to him. Is not human discourse another way of breaking what you call "totality"? E.L.: Certainly. Face and discourse are tied. The face speaks. It speaks, it is in this that it renders possible and begins all discourse. I have just refused the notion of vision to describe the authentic relationship with the Other; it is discourse and, more exactly, response or responsibility which is this authentic relationship. Ph.N.: But since the ethical relationship is beyond knowledge, and, on the other hand, it is authentically assumed through discourse, it is thus that discourse itself is not somethiqg of the order of knowledge? E.L.: In discourse I have always distinguished, in fact, between the saying and the said. That the saying must bear a said is a necessity of the same order as that which imposes a society with laws, institu- tions and social relations. But the saying is the fact that</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">before the face I do not simply remain</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> there contemplating it<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, I respond to it. The saying is a way of greeting the Other, but to greet</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Other is already to answer for him. It is difficult to be silent in someone's presence</span>; this difficulty has its ultimate foundation in this signification proper to the saying, whatever is the said. It is necessary to speak of something, of the rain and fine weather, no matter what, but to speak, to respond to him and already to answer for him. </span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Ph.N.:</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">In the face of the Other you say there is an "elevation," a "height</span>."</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The Other is higher than I am. What do you mean by that? E.L.:</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">The first word of the face is the "Thou shalt not kill." It is an order.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> There is a command- ment in the appearance of the face, as if a master spoke to me.</span></span> </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">However, </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">at the same time, the face of the Other is destitute; it is the poor for whom I can do all and to whom I owe all. And <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">me, whoever I may be, but as a "first person," I am he who finds the resources to respond to the call.</span> </span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">C) Ethics are phenominological – our very being is defined in relation to the other.</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985 Pg 96 -97)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">E.L.: In describing the face positively, and not merely negatively . You recall what we said:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">meeting the face is not of the order of pure and simple perception</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, of the intentionality which goes toward adequa- tion. Positively, we will say that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">since the Other looks at me, I am responsible for him, without even having taken on responsibilities</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in his regard; <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">his responsibil- ity is incumbent on me. It</span> is responsibility that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">goes beyond what I do</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Usually, one is responsible for what one does oneself. I say, in Otherwise than Being, that responsibility is initially a for the Other. This means that I am responsible for his very responsibility. Ph.N.: What in this</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">responsibility</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> for the Other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">defines</span> the structure of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">subjectivity</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">? E.L.:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Responsibility</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in fact <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is not a simple attribute of subjectivity</span>, as if the latter already existed in itself, before the ethical relationship. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Subjectivity is not for itself; it is</span>, </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">once again, initially</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> for another.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">In the book, the proximity of</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the Other</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">is presented as the fact that the Other is not simply close to me in space, or close like a parent, but he</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">approaches me essentially insofar as I feel </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">myself - insofar as I am - responsible for him.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">It</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> is a structure that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">in nowise resembles the intentional relation</span> </span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">which in knowledge attaches us to the object - to no matter what object, be it a human object. Proximity does not revert to this intentionality; in particular it does not revert to the fact that the Other is known to me.</span></span>


<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">D) Affirming our infinite responsibility to the other in every instance is key to short circuiting the logic that allows wars to occur.</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, p 13-15 )</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Radical alterity figures in Levinas’ thought not as a flaw, an ignorance, an obscurity, a childishness, a laziness or a deferral, but as the non-thematizable charge through which ethics commands. “What oughtto be” –the subject’s response to the Other – relates to “what is” –being essence, manifestation, phenomenon, identity – not by some subtle or crude conversion into “what is,” but by haunting it, disturbing it, raising t to a moral height of which it is not itself capable. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">The alterity of the other raises the subject in a severe responsibility which bears all the weight of the world’s seriousness in a non-indifference – with no ontological basis – for the other. When in the late 1930s <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the British</span> </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">colonial </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">administrators <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">asked Gandhi what he expected from his annoying non-violent agitation</span>, the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Mahatma replied</span> that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">he expected the British would quit India</span>. They would quit India <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">on their own because they would come to see they were wrong</span>. Moral force is a scandal for ontological thinking, whether that thinking is gently attuned to being or imposing its subjective will. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The power of ethics is entirely different from the power of identities</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> whether poetic or political, whether knowledge or administration. It escapes and judges the synthesizing, centralizing forces. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Ethics is forceful not because it opposes power with more power, on the same plane, with a bigger army, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">more guns, a finer microscope or a grander space program, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">but</span> rather <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">because it opposes power with what appears to be weakness</span> and vulnerability <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">but is responsibility and sincerity. To the calculations of power, ethics opposes less than power can conquer. With their lathi sticks the British</span> occupational police <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">struck their opponents</span>, hurt them dreadfully, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">but</span> at the same time <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">they were hitting their own injustice</span>, their own inhumanity, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">with each blow</span> non-violently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">received were taught a moral lesson</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. Not that they were necessarily taught a lesson: ethics is not ontology, it is not necessary, one can kill. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Moral force</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">however</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the proximity of the face-to-face, the height and destitution of the other’s face, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is the </span>ever patient <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">counterbalance to all the powers of the world, including nuclear power,</span> including nuclear power. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Moral force is not stronger than the powers of being</span> </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">and essence, the totalizing, synthesizing powers, it is better, </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">and this is its ultimate strength. </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Does Levinas' philosophy, then, come down to the escapist lament of slavery, failure, cowardice and inability? Is it a rationalization?</span></span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">"</span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">The true problem</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> for us Westerners," he writes in response to just such a question, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">"is not so much to refuse violence as to question ourselves about a struggle against violence which</span>, without blanching in non-resistance to evil, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">could avoid the institution of violence out of this very struggle. Does not the war perpetuate that which it is called to make disappear</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, and consecrate war and its virile virtues in good conscience? One has to recon- sider the meaning of a certain human weakness, and no longer see in patience only the reverse side of the ontological finitude of the human. But for that one has to be patient oneself without asking patience of the others - and for that one has to admit a differ- ence between oneself and the others.,,2 </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">Only</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> this difference between oneself and the others</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">,</span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">only the individuation which occurs as non-indifference to the plight and height of the other, as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">ethics</span>, related to and separate from the other</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, the philosophical scan- dal of heterogenous experience,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">is capable</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">- through its very weakness - </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">of holding the march of historical being in check</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">That is,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">only ethics can judge</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> - rather than simply appreciate - <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the epochal unfolding of being</span>.</span></span> <span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">"</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">But does the subject escape the concept and essence. . . only in resignation and illusion, against which at the hour of truth or of the inevitable awak- ening, essence is stronger?" Levinas asks. He answers that to grasp the singularity of the subject ethically commanded,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">one must "understand the</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">subjectivity</span> of the subject beyond essence, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">as on the basis of an escape from the concept, a forgetting of being and non- being.</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Not of an 'unregulated' forgetting. . . but</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">a forgetting that would be an ignorance in the sense that nobility ignores what is not noble</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">.,,3 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Such an ignorance is not blind, it knows</span> </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">too much, more than it can comprehend,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">more than what can be com- prehended - </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">an infinite responsibility before other.</span>** </span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention Four: Solvency</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">State violence is inevitable – our only hope in checking it is to act ethically in every instance.</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Aronowicz 06</span></span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">(Annette , prof @ Franklin and Marshall College,“Levinas and Politics” Subject Matters Vol. 3, No. 1: 1© London Metropolitan University 2006 pg 127-128, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.augustoponzio.com/PDF/SubjectMattersvol3issue1.pdf#page=148]]</span>.)ZDM</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 5.75pt;"><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">This is not to suggest that Levinas’ solution</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> to the problem of violence <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">lies simply in the individual’s act</span> of responsibility</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">. </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">It is neither that simple nor that simplistic. In ‘Judaism and revolution’, a very complex commentary dealing with the relationship of Aronowicz the Jewish tradition and the State, Levinas makes clear that the State itself is responsible for guaranteeing conditions that permit for the fulfillment of the human (Levinas 1990: 99). Yet </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the State</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">claims a universalism that is deceptive, for</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">while it attempts to protect the individual person,</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">it</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">limits</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">protection to its own and thus divides the world into an ‘us and them’, quelling the responsibility of one to the other,</span> beyond any distinctions whatsoever</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. The Jewish tradition’s universalism, on the other hand, does not recognize limits to responsibility for the other person. It thus introduces a wedge between the Jewish people and the State, for the latter cannot limit the responsibility of the former. As such, the Jewish tradition always signals a loyalty beyond the State, and propels political activity in two directions. The first is in the direction of care for the most vulnerable members within it, setting the standard by which the State offers guarantees against dehumanization (Levinas 1990: 99-100). The second is in refusing to identify the good with a particular State, thus preventing the State from turning into an object of idolatry. Levinas warns, however, that </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">even a revolutionary movement</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> whose aim is to overthrow a hopelessly corrupt government <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">can turn into a mirror image of the violence it contests, dividing the world into us and them just as much. A revolution always risks the very thing it is opposing</span>.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">This does not mean that revolution is never justified but once again,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">we are left, as our only recourse, vigilance against abuses, rather than a once and for all transformation: Revolutionary action is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> first of all the action of the isolated man who plans revolution not only in danger but also in the agony of conscience. In the agony of conscience that risks making revolution impossible: for it is not only a question of seizing the evil-doer but also of not making the innocent suffer</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Levinas 1990: 110). Admittedly, my interpretation of these commentaries goes very fast over very complex materials that do not allow such breezy summarizations. Nonetheless, I would maintain that Levinas never meant his philosophy of the other as a solution to the problem of violence, as if, if properly understood and enacted, it would institute another course in history. History is what it is. Within these strictures,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">one needs to respond constantly against</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">violence, pushed into it</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">not so much by principle as</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">by that unavoidable responsibility in the face of the nakedness of the other</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> person.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps this is what Ponzio’s essay actually attempts to say. If so, it could have been made clearer for at times it sounds as though Levinas’ thought was opposed in principle to capitalism and to war. It is not that Levinas’ thought is for either. Rather, his writings assume that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">whatever the system running the</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> State or the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">world, it will always involve violence</span> to the other. This does not mean resignation. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">It means unending involvement to stave off the moment of betrayal</span>. In this respect, it is a very non-utopian approach to politics. </span></span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Institutions are inevitable and the only way to moderate our obligation to the multiplicity.</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Levinas and Nemo 85</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Emmanuel and Phillippe, professors of philosophy, “Ethics and Infinity” 1985, p 89-90 )</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">You have spoken of the passion of hate. I feared a much graver objection: How is it that one can punish and repress?</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">How is it that there is justice</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">? I answer that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">it is the fact of the multiplicity</span> of men and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the presence of someone</span> else <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">next to the Other, which condition the laws and establish justice</span>.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">If I am alone with the Other, I owe him everything; but there is someone else. Do I know what my neighbor is in relation to someone else? Do I know if someone else has an understanding with him or his victim?</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Who is my neighbor? <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">It is </span>consequently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">necessary </span>to weigh, to think, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to judge, in comparing the incomparable. The interpersonal relation I establish with the Other, I must also establish with other men;</span></span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">there is thus a necessity to moderate this privilege of the Other</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">; from whence comes justice</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Justice, exercised through institutions, which are inevitable, must always be held in check by the initial interpersonal relation.</span></span>**</span>


<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Decision-makers are not responsible for the actions of intervening actors. As long as we win that the plan action is ethical you still vote aff.</span></span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Gewirth 82</span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> (Alan Gewirth, Human Rights: Essays on Justification and Applications, 1982 pp. 229-30)</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The required supplement is provided by the principle of the intervening action. According to this principle,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">when there is a causal connection between</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> some <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">person A’s</span> performing some <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">action</span> (or inaction) <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">and</span> some other person <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">B incurring</span> a certain <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">harm Z, A’s moral responsibility for Z is removed if, between X and Z, there intervenes some other action Y of some person B</span> who knows the relevant circumstances of his action and who intends to produce Z or who produces Z through recklessness The reason for this removal is that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">B's intervening action Y is the more direct</span> or proximate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">cause of Z and unlike A's action (or inaction), Y is the sufficient condition of Z as it actually occurs</span></span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">An example of this principle may help to show its connection with the absolutist thesis.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Martin Luther <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">King</span> Jr. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">was</span> repeatedly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">told that because he led demonstrations in support of civil rights, he was morally responsible for the </span>disorders, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">riots</span>, and deaths <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">that ensued</span> and that were shaking the American Republic to its foundations. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">By the principle of the intervening action</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, however,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">it was King’s opponents who were responsible because their intervention operated as the sufficient conditions of the riots and injuries</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">. </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">King might also have replied that the republic would not be worth saving if the price that had to be paid was the violation of the civil rights of Black Americans. As for the rights of other Americans to peace and order, the reply would be that those rights cannot be justifiably secured at the price of the rights of blacks.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">It follows</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> from the principle of the intervening action <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">that it is</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">not the son but rather</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">the terrorists who are, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">morally as well as causally <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">responsihle</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> for the </span>many <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">deaths that may ensue on his refusal to torture his mother</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> to death</span>.</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The important point is not that he lets these persons die rather</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> than kills them, or that he does not harm them but, only fails to help them,</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> or that he intends their deaths only obliquely but not directly. The point</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;"> is rather that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Garamond;">it is only through the intervening lethal actions</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> of the terrorists</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">that his refusal eventuates in the many deaths. Since the</span> moral <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">responsibility</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> is not the son's it does not affect his</span> moral <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">duty not to torture his mother</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> to death so that her correlative right remains absolute</span>.</span></span>



<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">The only way to change institutions is by using them – a rejection of politics only allows abuses to continue unchecked.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">McClean</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">01</span></span></span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">, (David E. “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Am. Phil. Conf., www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm)</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated in Richard Rorty's Achieving Our Country, a book that I think is long overdue, leftist critics continue to cite and refer to the eccentric and often a priori ruminations of people like those just mentioned, and a litany of others including Derrida, Deleuze, Lyotard, Jameson, and Lacan, who are to me hugely more irrelevant than Habermas in their narrative attempts to suggest policy prescriptions (when they actually do suggest them) aimed at curing the ills of homelessness, poverty, market greed, national belligerence and racism. I would like to suggest that it is time for American social critics who are enamored with this group, those who actually want to be relevant, to recognize that they have a disease, and a disease regarding which I myself must remember to stay faithful to my own twelve step program of recovery. The disease is the need for elaborate theoretical "remedies" wrapped in neological and multi-syllabic jargon. These</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">elaborate theoretical remedies are more "interesting," </span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">to be sure</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">than</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">the</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">pragmatically settled questions</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">about what shape democracy should take in various contexts, or whether private property should be protected by the state, or regarding our basic human nature (</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">described</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, if not defined (heaven forbid!),</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">in such statements as "We don't like to starve" and "We like to speak our minds without fear of death"</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">and "We like to keep our children safe from poverty"). As Rorty puts it, "When one of today's academic leftists says that some topic has been 'inadequately theorized,' you can be pretty certain that he or she is going to drag in either philosophy of language, or Lacanian psychoanalysis, or some neo-Marxist version of economic determinism. . . .</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">These <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">futile attempts to philosophize</span> one's way <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">into</span> political <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">relevance are</span> a symptom of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">what happens when a Left retreats from activism</span> and adopts a spectatorial approach to the problems of its country. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Disengagement</span> from practice <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">produces</span> theoretical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">hallucinations</span></span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">"(italics mine).(1) Or as John Dewey put it in his The Need for a Recovery of Philosophy, "I believe that philosophy in America will be lost between chewing a historical cud long since reduced to woody fiber, or an apologetics for lost causes, . . . . or a scholastic, schematic formalism, unless it can somehow bring to consciousness America's own needs and its own implicit principle of successful action." Those who suffer or have suffered from this disease Rorty refers to as the Cultural Left, which left is juxtaposed to the Political Left that Rorty prefers and prefers for good reason. Another attribute of the Cultural Left is that its members fancy themselves pure culture critics who view the successes of America and the West, rather than some of the barbarous methods for achieving those successes, as mostly evil, and who view anything like national pride as equally evil even when that pride is tempered with the knowledge and admission of the nation's shortcomings. In other words</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the Cultural Left</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">in this country</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">too often dismiss American society as beyond reform and redemption</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">And Rorty correctly argues that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">this is a disastrous conclusion</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">, i.e. disastrous for the Cultural Left. I think it may also be disastrous for our social hopes, as I will explain.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Leftist American culture critics might put their considerable talents to better use if they bury some of their cynicism</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">about America's social and political prospects</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">and help forge public and political possibilities</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">in a spirit of determination to, indeed, achieve our country - the country of Jefferson and King; the country of John Dewey and Malcom X; the country of Franklin Roosevelt and Bayard Rustin, and of the later George Wallace and the later Barry Goldwater. To invoke the words of King, and with reference to the American society, the time is always ripe to seize the opportunity to help create the "beloved community," one woven with the thread of agape into a conceptually single yet diverse tapestry that shoots for nothing less than a true intra-American cosmopolitan ethos, one wherein both same sex unions and faith-based initiatives will be able to be part of the same social reality, one wherein business interests and the university are not seen as belonging to two separate galaxies but as part of the same answer to the threat of social and ethical nihilism.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">We</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> who fancy ourselves philosophers <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">would do well to create</span> from within ourselves</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">and from within our ranks</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">a new kind of public intellectual who has</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> both <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a hungry theoretical mind and</span> who <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">is</span> yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">capable of</span> seeing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the need to move past</span> high <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">theory to</span> other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">important questions</span> that are less bedazzling and "interesting" but more important</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">to the prospect of our flourishing - questions such as "How is it possible to develop a citizenry that cherishes a certain hexis, one which prizes the character of the Samaritan on the road to Jericho almost more than any other?" or "How can we square the political dogma that undergirds the fantasy of a missile defense system with the need to treat America as but one member in a community of nations under a "law of peoples?"</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">The new public philosopher might seek to understand</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> labor law and military and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">trade theory and doctrine</span> as much as theories of surplus value; <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the logic of international markets and trade agreements as much as critiques of commodification</span>, and the politics of complexity as much as the politics of power</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">all of which can still be done from our arm chairs.) </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">This means going down</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> deep into the guts of our quotidian social institutions, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">into the</span> grimy <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">pragmatic details where intellectuals</span> are <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">loathe</span> to dwell <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">but where</span> the officers and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">bureaucrats</span> of those institutions <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">take</span> difficult and often unpleasant, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">imperfect decisions that affect</span> other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">peoples' lives</span>, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">it means</span> making honest <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">attempts to</span> truly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">understand how</span> those <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">institutions actually</span> function in the actual world before howling for their overthrow commences. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">This might help keep us from being slapped down in debates by true policy pros who actually know what they are talking</span> about <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">but</span> who lack awareness of the dogmatic assumptions from which they proceed, and who <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">have not</span> yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">found</span> a good <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">reason to listen to jargon</span>-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">riddled lectures</span> from philosophers and culture critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."</span></span></span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Relying on individual-level strategies fails and guarantees global politics is dominated by violence</span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Monbiot</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">,<span class="Tags"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> 04</span></span> </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">(George journalist, academic, and political and environmental activist, , Manifesto for a New World Order, p. 11-13)</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The quest for global solutions is difficult and divisive.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Some members of this movement are</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">deeply</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">suspicious of all institutional power</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">at the global level, fearing that it could never be held to account by the world’s people. Others are concerned that a single set of universal prescriptions would threaten the diversity of dissent.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A smaller faction has argued that all political programmes are oppressive:</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">our task should not be to replace one form of power with another, but to replace all power with a magical essence called ‘anti-power’. </span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">But</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">most of the members of this movement are coming to recognize that</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">if we</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">propose solutions</span> which can be effected <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">only at the local</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">or the national</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">level, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we remove ourselves from</span> any meaningful role in <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">solving</span> precisely those <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">problems</span> which most concern us. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Issues such as</span></span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">cli­mate change, international debt, nuclear proliferation,</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">war, peace and the balance of trade between nations can be</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">addressed only</span> globally or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">internationally. Without global measures and global institutions, it is impossible to see how we might distribute wealth from rich nations to poor ones, tax the mobile rich and their even more mobile money, control the shipment of toxic waste</span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">,</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">sustain the ban on landmines, prevent the use of nuclear weapons, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">broker </span></span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">peace</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> between nations <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">or prevent powerful states from forcing weaker ones to trade on their terms.</span> If we were to work only at <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the local level</span>, we <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">would leave these</span>, the most critical of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">issues, for other people</span> to tackle. Global <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">governance will take place whether we participate</span> in it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">or not</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">Indeed</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">it must take place if the issues which concern us are not to be resolved by the brute force of the powerful. That the international institutions have been designed</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">or captured</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">by the dictatorship of vested interests is not an argument against the existence of international institutions</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, but a reason for overthrowing them and re­placing them with our own. It is an argument for a global political system which holds power to account. </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">In the absence of an effective global politics</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">moreover</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">local solutions will</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> always <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">be undermined by</span> communities of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">interest which do not share our vision</span>. We might</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">for example</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">manage to persuade the people of the street in which we live to give up their cars</span></span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">in the hope of preventing climate change</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">unless everyone</span>, in all communities, either <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">shares our politics</span> or is bound by the same rules, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we simply open new road space</span> into which the neighbouring communities can expand. We might declare our neighbour­hood nuclear-free, but unless we are simultaneously work­ing, at the international level, for the abandonment of nuclear weapons, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we can do nothing to prevent </span>ourselves and everyone else from <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">being threatened</span> by people who are not as nice as we are</span></span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">. We would deprive ourselves, in other words, of the power of restraint.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">By first <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">rebuilding the global</span> politics, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we establish</span> the political <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">space in which our</span> local <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">alternatives can flourish. If</span></span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">,</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">by contrast</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Garamond;">we</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> were to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">leave</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">governance of</span> the necessary <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">global institutions to others,</span> then <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">those institutions will pick</span> off <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">our</span> local, even our national, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">solutions one by one</span>. There is little point in devising an alternative economic policy for your nation, as</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> Luis Inacio ‘</span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lula’</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> da Silva, </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">now president of Brazil, once advocated, if the International Monetary Fund</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> and the financial speculators </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">have not first been overthrown. There is little point in fighting to protect a coral reef from</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> local </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">pollution, if nothing has been done to prevent climate change</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> from destroying the conditions it requires for its survival.</span></span>


== == 
==Plans we have Read with the Kuwait Aff== 
Text: The United States federal government should end its military use of forced labor in Kuwait.
Text: The United States federal government should end the United States federal government's use of forced labor in Kuwait.
Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States federal government's military use of forced labor in Kuwait.
Text: The Department of Defense should substantially reduce the United States federal government's military use of forced labor in Kuwait.
Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States federal government's military use of forced labor in Kuwait.
Text: The United States federal government should eliminate its military presence from Kuwait.

=Negative= 
==Start Da== 

(Uq Varies)


<span class="Tags">Obama's political capital is key to securing start passage.</span>
<span class="Tags">Talbot 1/25</span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">/10 (Strobe, President of the Brookings Institute, RESETTING U.S.-RUSSIAN LEADERSHIP ON NUCLEAR ARMS REDUCTION AND NON-PROLIFERATION, p 7-8, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2010/0125_arms_control/20100125_arms_control.pdf)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> You might say, what could Massachusetts possibly ....</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"> preserve the nuclear peace is very tight</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">indeed. </span></span>
(Link Varies)
<span class="Tags">Start solves an accidental nuclear war between the US and Russia – Accidental war is the only possibility for war between the two countries.</span>
<span class="Tags">Stanley Foundation </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">July </span></span><span class="Tags">08 </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(nonpartisan, private operating foundation focusing primarily on peace and security issues, Avoiding an Accidental Nuclear War, </span></span>[[http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498|http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498)ZDM]]
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Why is this important? Assistant Secretary for Verification, ... seemingly unconnected</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">issues raises the specter that an accidental</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">nuclear launch, perhaps followed by a "launch on warning"</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">exchange, could</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">still</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">occur</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>
<span class="Tags">We control the only internal link to extinction – no countries other than the US and Russia have enough nukes.</span>
<span class="Tags">Bostrom 02</span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Nick, Winner of the Gannon Award for the Advancement of Humanity, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, Existential Risks, </span></span>[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)ZDM]]
<span class="cardtextunderlined">A</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">much</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">greater existential risk emerged ...</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span></span>


==EPA Regs== 
<span class="Tags">EPA Regs bill fails now but political capital is key.</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Politico 1/12</span></span><span class="cites">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (For EPA, climate tough in Senate, </span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47450.html#ixzz1BhtGvq1U</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">)ZDM</span>**</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">Republicans have made .... the White House are willing to invest.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">

</span>
<span style="font-family: "Apple Garamond"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
<span class="Tags">Solves warming – reduces GHG’s, gets modeled globally, & sparks broader US efforts
Clean Energy News 12/30</span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(12/30/10, "EPA Greenhouse Gas Limits to Take Effect in 2011", http://blog.cleanenergy.org/2010/12/30/epa-greenhouse-gas-limits-to-take-effect-in-2011/)</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">

</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Despite what you may have heard about the United ....</span></span><span class="cardtextunderlined"> to slow our changing climate. </span>
<span class="Tags">Warming risks extinction
Cummins and Allen 10</span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">
</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The hour is late.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">Leading climate scientists </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.... appear determined to maintain "business as usual."</span></span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">

</span>



=North Korea Collapse Da= 

<span class="Tags">North Korean collapse coming now.</span>
<span class="Tags">Pei </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5/12/</span></span><span class="Tags">10 </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Minxin, prof of Government at Claremont McKenna College and adjunct senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment. get-ready-for-dprk-collapse, The Diplomat, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/12/get-ready-for-dprk-collapse/)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Pyongyang’s record on this issue speaks for itself:</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">North ... **East Asia should be prepared for a scenario of rapid collapse in North Korea.**</span>


<span class="Tags">Every American soldier is key – the war situation facing the Korean peninsula would drag the ROK troops into war conditions. Only the US will be prepared.</span>
<span class="Tags">O’Hanlon, June 09</span> (<span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Micheal E, Senior Fellow @ the Brookings Institute, North Korea Collapse Scenarios, The Brookings Institute, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/06_north_korea_ohanlon.aspx)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">The notion that the United States could somehow ...</span>. <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">But that possibility immediately raises the question of how Beijing would react to U.S. forces again approaching its borders.</span></span>
<span class="Tags">Failure to contain nuclear weapons causes loose nukes sold and used by renegade North Korean commanders.</span>
<span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon </span></span><span class="cites">4/30/</span><span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10 (</span></span><span class="cites">Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, OpCon Transfer or OpCon Confusion: Making the Best of a Dubious Idea, Brookings Institute, ttp://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0430_korea_ohanlon.aspx)ZDM</span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Fifth point, some people may say, “Well all these concerns may be theoretically ... or between ROK roles and U.S. roles.</span></span>




=Whitman Round 5 V St George's= 
==Advantage Cp== 

**Counterplan text: The United States federal government should use diplomatic leverage to encourage Japan to increase its military forces. The United States federal government should not intervene with nuclear weapons in an East Asia conflict. The United States federal government should fully fund Japan’s contributions to join ballistic missile defense projects. The United States federal government should offer to substantially increase the number of joint training operations betweent the United States military and the Japanese Self-Defense Forces aimed developing independent Japanese Self-Defense Forces. The government of the state of Japan should substantially enlarge its Self-Defense Forces and develop independent Self-Defense <span class="Tags">Forces. The United States federal government should explain that it has no intention of intervening militarily against China, maintaining a military alliance with Taiwan, or using military facilities on Taiwan. The United States federal government should refocus its relations with Japan on sharing intelligence, preparing emergency base access, and otherwise cooperating to meet international challenges. The United States federal government should withdraw its carrier groups from East Asia. The United States federal government should press the PRC to renounce the use of force to resolve Taiwan's status and remove missiles now targeting Taiwan.</span>**

<span class="Tags">Funding and joint training encourages the development of SDF.</span>
<span class="Tags">Szechenyi, 06</span> <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Nicholas, a fellow and assistant director of the Office of the Japan Chair at CSIS, A Turning Point for Japan's Self-Defense Forces, The Washington Quarterly - Volume 29, Number 4, Autumn 2006, p143 Proj Muse)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">Accompanying the</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">great</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">potential to expand SDF</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">... a Joint Staff Office within the JDA will assemble task forces during emergencies to issue orders to the SDF in close collaboration with U.S. forces.</span></span>[[#REF18]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.uwlib.uwyo.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v029/29.4szechenyi.html#FOOT18|18]]<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Perfecting this system will be no easy task, but any attempts at synchronization should be welcomed and encouraged.</span></span>

==Case Stuff== 

<span class="Tags">No war in East Asia – Economic cooperation prevents conflict.</span>
<span class="Tags">Weede</span>, <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">April </span></span><span class="Tags">10 </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Erich, Proff @ University of Bonn, 'The Capitalist Peace and the Rise of China: Establishing Global Harmony by Economic Interdependence', International Interactions, 36:2, 206 – 213, EBSCO)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although war in the nuclear age threatens to be much worse than any previous world war, fear of nuclear war itself might exert some pacifying impact. Such fear, however, need not be our only protection against future wars.</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">Economic interdependence</span> <span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">itself</span></span> <span class="cardtextunderlined">makes war less likely</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="cardtextunderlined"> pacification of East Asia. </span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The qualifications which might be required to the peace by trade proposition do not negate these optimistic conclusions. Possibly, it is not trade but cross-border investment, capital market integration or even a commitment to economic </span></span>...<span class="cardtextunderlined"> its neighbors and competitors.</span>

<span class="Tags">Forward deployed presence is key to continued economic interdependence and stability.</span>
**Blumenthal, <span class="Tags">10</span>** <span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, American Enterprise Institute, 6/7/10 [ Daniel, “Losing Asia?”, </span>[[http://www.aei.org/article/102121]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;">)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">The remarkable economic growth ... of 30 years of prosperity.</span>


<span class="Tags">Nuclear US China war is not coming now – lack of security threats mean that even if confrontations happen they won’t escalate. Prefer our evidence its cites empirics.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Tags">Art 10 </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Robert, J. Christian A. Herter Professor of International Relations at Brandeis University and Director of MIT</span>ʼ<span style="font-size: 10pt;">s Seminar XXI Program, The United States and the Rise of China: Implications for the Long Haul, Political Science Quarterly, Volume 125, Number 3, Fall 2010 , 369-372, Ingenta)ZDM</span></span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">**China does not present the type of ….**their relation and their competition changes dramatically. </span>

<span class="Tags"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal of American presence prevents conflict – an independent Japan would engage many regional hotspots and trigger war. Japan would uniquely feel like its homeland was threatened.</span></span>
<span class="Tags">Robinson, 10 </span><span class="cites"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David, Proff @ Edith Cowan University , Why the West should Discourage Japanese Military Expansion, Journal of Asia Pacific Studies ( 2010) Vol 1, No 2, 316-319, http://www.japss.org/upload/10.robinson.pdf)ZDM</span></span>
<span class="cardtextunderlined">American domination of Japanese …</span><span class="cardtextununderlined"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and may result in detriment to Western interests. </span></span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]