[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - MBA== 

**Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify.**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The withdrawal deadline will be extended – we’ve invested too much in the Iraq to go cold turkey** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Karon 1/6**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Tony Karon – reporter for Time magazine, 6 January 2011, “Iraq: With al-Sadr Back In, Is U.S. on Way Out?,” Time, [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2041026,00.html]]) </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The end of 2011 is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, of course, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">two veterans returning to Iraq.) </span>


====**Advantage One: The Iran Conundrum**==== 

**The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq**
**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">The United States</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> apparently </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">has … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the consequences would be unacceptable. </span>

**US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable.**
**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Iranians signaled last week … </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">they can wait no longer.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">And, US-Iran war is on the brink now. Previous war rhetoric should be ignored, we must evaluate this instance in a vacuum. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Friedman 10 </span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">–</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (10 American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor (George Friedman; “Rethinking American Options on Iran”; August 31, 2010;</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100830_rethinking_american_options_iranutm_source=GWeekly&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=100831&utm_content=readmore&elq=81e60a854cde48e88faf0a57b328aa09]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">) CJC\) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Public <span style="background-color: lime;">discussion of </span>…deny that possibility. </span>


**And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable – this closes the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, skyrocketing oil prices and killing the world economy**
**Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iran’s problem becomes clear when … </span>__interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**And, Rising oil prices destroy the economy** </span>
**Whipple 7/14/2010**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Tom, one of the most highly respected analysts of peak oil issues in the United States. Retired 30-year CIA analyst who has been following the peak oil story since 1999, Editor of the daily Peak Oil News and the weekly Peak Oil Review, The Peak Oil Crisis: A Mid-Year Review, FNCP.com, http://www.fcnp.com/commentary/national/6896-the-peak-oil-crisis-a-mid-year-review.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Interestingly, </span>__six in ten surveyed …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the proximity of the crisis. </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Broward 9</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">((Member of Triond) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/ AD: 7-7-09 )ET</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Now its time to look … <span style="background-color: yellow;">us </span>in the 21st century. </span></span></span>

**Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran – plan forces US to redefine issue away from nuclear program**
**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">As long as the problem</span>____…it is doing just this.__

**US focus on the nuclear issue ensures current talks about Iraq fail. Iran is committed and wants to negotiate – only redefinition of US view of Iran ensures success**
**STRATFOR – 1O** <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “Ahmadinejad Reaches Out to Washington”; September 23, 2010, [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/geopolitical_diary/20100922_ahmadinejad_reaches_out_washington]]) CJC </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While in New York for … </span>__to negotiate with one voice.__

**Withdrawal from Iraq solves and avoids conflict. The US must engage Iran and push for a relationship, accepting their nuclear weapons and giving them influence in Iraq. This can only be done with a withdraw of US troops from Iraq.**
**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Consider the American interest</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. First</span>__, …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">eliminate Iranian influence in Iraq. </span>

**Current US views mean that Iran will reject their proposal. The existence of threats and sanctions in the negotiations ruins them.**
**STRATFOR – 1O**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Iran: Negotiation With Threats, Sanctions Is Useless”, **September** 24, 2010,</span> [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/sitrep/20100924_iran_negotiation_threats_sanctions_are_useless]])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime;">Iran believes in diplomacy…produce any result, he stated.</span></span>



====**Advantage Two: Makin’ It Rain**==== 

**The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—even with new formation it won’t last long**
**Arraf 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">… no commitment to it</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span>

**A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria**
**BBC 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest developments in the … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the Syrian and Iraqi people</span>.__


**Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible**
**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD (Reuters) -</span>**__F__****__requent__** **__<span style="background-color: yellow;">dust storms … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">daily food," the farmer said. </span>


**Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict**
**al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]]) </span>
**__Iraqis are calling on their … in terms of water rights__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Conflict between Iraq, Syria, and Turkey over water is coming now. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Langer – 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Andrew Langer is a 2009 graduate of Johns Hopkins University, where he majored in International Studies and concentrated in International Security, “Hydro Wars The Struggle for Water and Survival in the Euphrates-Tigris River Basin”, 2009,</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.helvidius.org/files/2009/2009_Langer.pdf]]</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">) CJC </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">In 1995, World Bank Vice President … exhibited by Syria and Iraq.</span> </span>
[[#_GoBack]]

**And, MIDDLE EAST WAR WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL NUCLEAR CONFLAGRATION.**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach</span></span>**, 20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[http://wagingpeace.org/articles%20/0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm|http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an … </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">conflict could trigger a world conflagration."</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Though Iraq’s government seems to be solidifying, Sadr’s return threatens stability – only through withdrawal can al-Maliki ensure Sadr’s support and sustain necessary coalition building </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bazzi 1/6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Mohamad Bazzi – Adjunct Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies for Council on Foreign Relations, 6 January 2011, “What Sadr's Return Means for Iraq,” Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23737/what_sadrs_return_means_for_iraq.html?cid=rss-fullfeed-what_sadr_s_return_means_for_i-010611&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+cfr_main+(CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed))</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Muqtada al-</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Sadr</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one of the … formidable power broker in Iraq. </span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Jansen 11/3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though still largely muddled, Iraq stands ready to embrace post-US era", 11/3/10, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-11/04/c_13589881.htm]]<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">) CJC </span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">to form a new government though.</span></span>


====**Enframing**==== 

<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Their Critique fails to engage the political sphere thus marginalizing it and rendering it useless </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nye 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Obama</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">appointed</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> some </span>**__…__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">headed in the opposite direction. </span>

<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Empirical validity is enough to justify policy – emphasis on representations and epistemology makes responding to problems impossible </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Owen</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>** **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span>**__so <span style="background-color: yellow;">a</span> potentially__** **__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">vicious circle arises</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>__**




=**Negative**= 



==[[#_GoBack]]XO== 
**The Counterplan Solves, President is able to use his powers to control military withdrawal**
Cooper 2 (Phillip, Prof of Public Administration @ Portland State, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action)
The deployment of troops has … motion the invasion of Grenada.ml

**XOs don’t link to politics: doesn’t have to deal with Congress**
Howell ’05 (William, Associate Prof @ Harvard, “Unilateral Powers: A Brief Overview”, September 2005, Presidential Quarterly, http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1741-5705.2005.00258.x)
The actions that Bush and … in new areas of governance.
==Israel DA== 
**Relations are rebounding now—they’re key to solve Middle East peace and prevent Iranian proliferation**
Indyk 7/2(Martin, vice president for foreign policy@the Brookings Institution, 2010, “U.S. and Israel: Diplomacy on the quiet”, The Washington Post, pg. A23, Lexis)
The current sturm und drang … can also achieve real peace.

**US Troop withdrawal from the Middle East would kill relations with Israel**
Gold 10 (Dore, President of Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, April 2010, 4 (23), http://www.jcpa.org/JCPA/Templates/ShowPage.asp?DBID=1&LNGID=1&TMID=111&FID=376&PID=0&IID=3655)
The United States and Israel … can be expected to worsen. 

**US-Israel relations key to Middle East stability**
Kramer 06 – fellow at The Washington Institute and senior fellow at the Olin Institute, Harvard (Dr. Martin, “The American Interest,” Fall 2006, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC06.php?CID=980)
My answer, to anticipate my … of the West’s sworn enemies.

**Extinction**
Moore 9—BA in pol sci from Wayne State (Carol, Six Escalation Scenarios to Nuclear World War III, 16 February,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://pakalert.wordpress.com/2009/02/16/six-escalation-scenarios-to-nuclear-world-war-iii/]]</span>)
Israel is especially dangerous because … a worldwide disarmament movement can stop it.
==Borders== 
**The affirmative’s geopolitical gaze creates a Western imperial vantage point that portrays states as individuals and accepts violence and war as part of the “natural struggle” — this leads to self-fulfilling prophecies and prevents affirmative solvency**
Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Professor at the University of Minnesota and a founding scholar of critical geopolitics, Critical Geopolitics: The Politics of Writing Global Space) 
The great irony of the … . But contested that order would be.

**Borders are the empirical cause of conflicts – they make escalation likely and war inevitable – that turns the aff**
Starr ‘6 (Harvey, Professor in International Affairs and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University ofSouth Carolina. He specializes in international relations theory and method, international conflict, and geopolitics. He is co-author of World Politics: The Menu for Choice, 8th edition. (2006), “International Borders: What They Are, What They Mean, and Why We Should Care”) http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1starr.htm 
Borders are not simply facilitating … success appears to be low.

**The alternative is a critique of the geopolitical map**

**Imperialism maintains hegemonic power through domination of alternate narratives, especially in the sphere of international relations – the alternative isolates the flaws in the status quo and opens space for new discourses**
Shapiro 97 (Michael J., Political Science at the University of Hawai’i at Mānoa ; Violent Cartographies: Mapping Cultures of War; 1997; P. 150-151) 
In order to oppose war … shared values and regulative norms.

==Schmitt== 
**Violence is inevitable but escalation isn’t. Acknowledging Adversaries allows wars to be controlled – attempting to erase dichotomies homogenizes the Other**
Rasch 3 (Cultural Critique 54 (2003) 137-41, William Rasch is the Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, Human Rights as Geopolitics  Carl Schmitt and the Legal Form of American Supremacy)
In the past, we/they, neighbor/… insistence on autonomy, on sovereignty. 

**The affirmatives attempted shift to multilateralism ignores China’s adversarial nature and forces them to conform to American standards. This justifies destroying their difference in order to embrace them**
Pourciau 5 (Pourciau, Sarah. graduate student … contemptuously label him a "political nullity." 

**The total wars inherent to liberalism pose the greatest threat of extinction**
Celermajer 07 (Danielle Celermajer, Professor of Human Rights at University of Sydney, “If Islam is our other, who are 'we'?”, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3359/is_1_42/ai_n29344394/?tag=content;col1, Autumn, 2007) 
The moral tenor of the … word 'humanity', wants to cheat."

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative. Recognizing adversarial difference ensures wars do not reach the point of genocide. This opens the political space in opposition to Just War**
Rasch 5 (William Rasch, Prof. of German Studies, Indiana, 2005, Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle, p.260-61)
<span style="margin-right: 0.2in;">What is to be done? … political nightmares of absolute exclusion. </span>
==Politics By Tournament== 
* **New Trier – None**
* **Iowa Caucus – START**
* **KCKCC – Tax Cuts**
* **Ohio Valley – START**
* **MBA – Senate Rules**
* **Westside – Senate Rules**
* **Golden Desert – EPA**
==1NCs== 
===New Trier=== 
**Wayzata ES (CT)**
T Substantial = 50%
Uniqueness CP
Israel Relations Disad
Schmitt K
Case

**Lane Tech (PMCs)**
T Its = Posession
Uniqueness CP
Israel Relations Disad
Schmitt K
Case

**GBS KH (CT)**
T Substantial = 50%
Uniqueness CP
Israel Relations Disad
Schmitt K
Case
===Iowa Caucus=== 
**Blake (PMCs)**
T Its = Possession
Uniqueness CP
Israel Relations Disad
Borders K
Case

**GBS GH (CT)**
T Substantial = 50%
Pakistan Cooperation CP
Israel Relations Disad
Borders K
Case

**Whitney Young MS (Okinawa)**
T Presence = Everything
18th Medical Group PIC
START Disad
Borders K
Case
===KCKCC=== 
**BVW (Okinawa)**
T Substantial = 50%
Mainland Japan CP
Guam Disad
Tax Cuts Disad
Case

**SMW (Okinawa)**
ASPEC
T Presence = Everthing
18th Medical Group PIC
Tax Cuts Disad
Case

**Saint Thomas Aquinas (Military Excercises)**
ASPEC
T Substantial = 50%
Tax Cuts Disad
Deterrence Disad
Case

**Doubles SME (Okinawa)**
ASPEC
Executive Order CP
Tax Cuts Disad
Case
===Ohio Valley=== 
**Hawken BD (Drones)**
T Substantial = 50%
Courts CP
START Disad
Case

**St Ignatius (Okinawa)**
T Substantial = 50%
T In = Within
Mainland Japan CP
START Disad
Case

**Greenwood CR (Afghanistan)**
ASPEC
START Disad
Borders K
Case
===MBA=== 
**Mercer Island (Kritik of Debate)**
ASPEC
T USFG = Government
Spaons Education CP
Case

**Coppell (HTS)**
ASPEC
T Presence = Bases
Executive Order CP
Senate Rules Disad
Israel Disad
Case

**Marquette (Okinawa)**
T Substantial = 50%
ASPEC
Courts CP
Senate Rules Disad
Case
===Westside=== 
**Cedar Rapids BS (Security Korea)**
PSPEC
ASPEC
Executive Order CP
Senate Rules Disad
Schmitt K
Case

**Millard West BZ (Spanos 0 Zone)**
University Counter K
Executive Order CP
Senate Rules Disad
Case

**Little Rock Central WP (South Korea)**
ASPEC
T Presence = Bases
Executive Order CP
Senate Rules Disad
China Containment Disad
Case
===Golden Desert=== 
**Leland CM (Security Korea)**
Borkers K
South Korea CP
EPA Disad
Case

**Bellarmine (Okinawa)**
T Substantially = 50%
3rd Marine Logistics Group PIC
Borders K
EPA Disad
Case

**Westminster MM (CT)**
ASPEC
T Reduce = Withdraw
T Presence =/= Combat
Egypt Dis
ad
Case

**Doubles Juan Diego (South Korea)**
T Substantial = 50%
Egypt Disad
Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]