=Affirmative= 
**Observation 1: Inherency**

**1)UAV missions in Pakistan and Afghanistan are based out of air bases in Afghanistan**
**<span class="cite">Turse 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Nick, Associate Editor of TomDispatch.com, fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction “The Drone Surge: Today, Tomorrow and 2047,” January 24, 2010, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/nick-turse/the-drone-surge-today-tom_b_434864.html MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Air Force...quite literally, paid.</span>

**2) UAV spending will double in the 2011 defense budget**
**<span class="Cite">Jenks 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Chris, Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps, Chief of the International Law Branch, Law From Above: Unmanned Aerial Systems, Use of Force, and the Law of Armed Conflict,” North Dakota Law Review, 2009, Vol. 85:649, http://www.law.und.nodak.edu/LawReview/issues/web_assets/pdf/85-3/85NDLR649.pdf, MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In September 2009...northwest portion of Pakistan.</span>


**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdrawal all of the United States federal government’s unmanned combat aerial vehicles in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.**


**Observation 2: Endless War**

**1) In a world of drone technology, every political disagreement turns into war –drones make leaders overconfident and ready to use lethal force**
**<span class="cite">Singer 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter W. Singer, Senior Fellow and Director, 21st Century Defense Initiative, at the Brookings Institution, Ph.D. in International Relations and Security Studies, “Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century,” 2009, p. 317-318, MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Such charged connections...more Kosovos, less Iraqs.</span>

**2) Drone technology distances the public from the battlefield, making it politically easy to start or get involved in wars across the globe**
**<span class="cite">Singer 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter W. Singer, Senior Fellow and Director, 21st Century Defense Initiative, at the Brookings Institution, Ph.D. in International Relations and Security Studies, “Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century,” 2009, p. 318-320, MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Josiah Bunting...us from the beasts.</span>

**<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">3) The impact is increased engagement in foreign conflicts, creating endless war</span></span>**
**Gholz et al 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eugene </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gholz</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Daryl G. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Press</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(doctoral candidates in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harvey M. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sapolsky</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Public Policy and Organization in the Department of Political Science at M.I.T. and Director of the M.I.T. Defense and Arms Control Studies (DACS) Program Spring </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1997</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “come home America – the strategy of restraint in the face of temptation” International Security, Vol. 21, No. 4)</span>
The larger long-term...would be costly.

**4) The distance drones create makes these wars more deadly – it removes us from the horrors of war, which enables killing and other atrocities**
**<span class="cite">Singer 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter W. Singer, Senior Fellow and Director, 21st Century Defense Initiative, at the Brookings Institution, Ph.D. in International Relations and Security Studies, “Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century,” 2009, p. 395-396, MV)</span>
Many studies have shown how disconnecting...don't kill that one.

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**5) This disconnect between attacker and target facilitates enemy construction—simulations of war replace reality with our misconceptions of the enemy, perpetuating war over difference** </span>
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Der Derian</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> 03</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(JamesProfessor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="Author-Date">03</span>, “War as a Game”, Brown Journal of World Affairs p. 45-46)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The charge of moral...If the world were perfect, it wouldn't be.</span>

**6) The culmination of enemy construction is violent behavior against all enemies. This means war.**
**<span class="cite">Campbell and Dillon 93 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David Campbell, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle, <span class="cite">and</span> Michael <span class="cite">Dillon</span>, professor of politics at Lancaster University, The Political Subject of Violence, <span class="cite">1993</span> p. 52-53)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The border between civility...civilians within the border.</span>


**Observation 3: Virtual war**

**1) Virtual war separates the pilot and the target by creating a dichotomy of “my space” and “their space,” which sanitizes the suffering of the victims**
**<span class="cite">Gregory 06</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Derek, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-astarget_files/%27In%20another %20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The second refinement...for the tyranny of Geography.</span>

**2) Virtual war reduces humans to representations and removes the opportunity to have a face-to-face encounter with the other**
**<span class="cite">Wilcox 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Lauren, Ph.D. candidate @ Columbia, “Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare,” Dec 11, Political Theory Colloquium, http://www.polisci.umn.edu/pdf/Body%20Counts%20Theory%20Colloquium.doc)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While counting bodies is one step...we cannot speak for it.</span>

**3) We have an ethical responsibility to privilege an connection with the suffering of the other**
**Irvine** **05** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Director of education of the Program in Narrative Medicine at Columbia University Craig A. “The Other Side of Silence: Levinas, Medicine, and Literature” 2005; Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">My belief in this paradoxical...reflecting my own image.</span>

**4) Only without the other does violence become inevitable - we see other’s weaknesses and exploit them to improve our own strength**
**<span class="cite">Bauman 93</span>**<span class="FontStyle78"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (</span></span>Emeritus professor at the University of Leeds (Zygmunt, <span class="FontStyle78"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Recipient of the </span></span>European Amalfi Prize for Sociology and Social Sciences, “Post Modern Ethics”, p. 89)
Humanity turns into cruelty...strive for perfection.

**5) The ethical question of the affirmative is a prerequisite to all other political decisions**
**Campbell 99** <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">(David, Prof. of International politics at the University of Newcastle, “The Deterritorialization of Responsibilit: Levinas, Derrida, and Ethics after the End of Philosophy”, //Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics//, Ed. David Campbell and Michael Shapiro, Minnesota Press, pg. 42-43)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">That this is the problem of politics...no more than technology.</span>

**6) Utilitarian calculus empirically fails to resolve the drone issue- it has been used to justify hundreds of civilian deaths with little to no result.**
**<span class="cite">Sharkey 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Noel, prof of AI and robotics University of Sheffield, Spring, Death strikes from the skies: the calculus of proportionality, IEEE TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY MAGAZINE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The difficulties of fully...analysis of the target.</span>


**Observation 4: Solvency**

**<span class="cite">1) Only the US has drones and is just beginning to use them – now is key to setting global standards for the new technology </span>**
**<span class="cite">Engelhardt 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(June 24, Huffington Post, Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, Editor of TomDispatch.com, Masters in Area Studies“America Detached from War: Bush's Pilotless Dream, Smoking Drones, and Other Strange Tales From the Crypt,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/america-detached-from-war_b_624155.html, MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Admittedly, there is a modest...this globalization of death.</span>

**2) US policy on drone strikes is modeled by other countries – Russia proves**
**<span class="cite">Horton 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Scott, Contributing Editor of Harper’s Magazine, lecturer at Columbia University Law School, co-founder of the American University in Central Asia, Chair of the Committee on International Law for the New York City Bar Association, board member of the National Institute of Military Justice and the American Branch of the International Law Association, May 3rd, 2010, Harper’s Magazine, “The Trouble with Drones,” http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/05/hbc-90006980)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is not idle speculation...standards for others.</span>

**3) Afghanistan is the key test case of robotic technology**
<span class="cite">**Buchbinder 02** (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Buchbinder is an analyst for Human Rights Watch, Special to The Christian Science Monitor / July 31, 2002 In Afghanistan, a new robosoldier goes to war The 'war on terror' is a testing ground for new technology </span>http://www.csmonitor.com/2002/0731/p01s03-usmi.html<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> d.a. 7-25-10) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">But for the US military...continues to collapse.</span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]