[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The aff</span>= 
===South Korea V.2.0 (is lame)((Grady))=== 
Inherency

**Troops currently in South Korea do absolutely nothing to help the United States, past withdrawals prove they are non-essential** 

**Bandow, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (Fall 2005, Doug, National Interest, “Seoul Searching,” vol. 81, EBSCO, JMP) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Bush__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Administration...</span>__er <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">units in the South</span>.__

===== ===== 
=====PLAN===== 

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence through a phased withdrawal of its military presence in South Korea.** 

====== ====== 
======1AC-Korean Conflict====== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Succession politics make DPRK aggression inevitable and the new regime will be as bad as if not worse than the last </span>**

**NYT 9/28** (MARTIN FACKLER and MARK McDONALD, 9/28/10, "North Koreans Bolster Power of Ruler’s Kin", http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/29/world/asia/29korea.html?_r=1?pagewanted=print?pagewanted=print&pagewanted=print) 



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The elevation of the ... </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">succession issue makes them even more unpredictable.”</span>__



**Independently the bad economy ensures aggression to regain public support** 

**Reuters, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/17/10, Jon Herskovitz, “North Korea may turn more menacing but options limited,” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62G12T20100317</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ANOTHER NUCLEAR TEST? </span>__...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">l Crisis Group said in a report this week. </span>





**We will isolate a number of impacts:** 

**First is Bio-Weapons:** 

**U.S. presence creates the perception of conventional weaknesses and forces North Korea to resort to CBW use** 

**ICG, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx</span>, JMP) </span>



<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">This report examines North Korea’s ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">**WMD attacks or incidents.**</span>__



**North Korean bioweapon use specifically would __spread globally__ within __six weeks__ – greater risk that nuclear weapons** 

**Levy, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html</span>, JMP) </span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> can be developed within days.</span>__



**Impact is extinction** 

**Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] </span>



__Of all the weapons...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">highest of all crimes. </span>



**Second is Draw-in:** 

**Withdrawal is necessary to prevent U.S. entanglement in Korean conflicts –** 

**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (5/24/10, Doug, “Avoiding Pyongyang,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432</span>, JMP) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After an investigation of nearly... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">e South Korean people</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**Causes an attack on the US** 

**<span style="color: black;">Layne, 06 – </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of government at Texas A & M University (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169) </span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Rather than being ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s by its alliance commitments. </span>



**The impact is global nuclear war and extinction** 

**Chol 2002** - Director Center for Korean American Peace’ (Chol,10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Any military strike ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> second-class nuclear power.</span>



======1AC-China Relations====== 
**US-Presence in South Korea is destroying US-Chinese relations and has become a means to assert power against China in the region risking a return to Cold-War confrontation and causing China to support the DPRK.** 

**The National 9/5**-Arab newspaper (5/9/10, “A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1140)



__<span style="color: #333333;">“<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">This is the beginning ...</span></span>____<span style="color: #333333;"> escalating</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">,” he said. </span>



**Status quo military presence is geared towards Chinese containment --- this strategy facilitates hostility and ensures Asian warfare and a Sino Taiwan conflict** 

**Klare 06,** professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, [Michael, “**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]</span>**



__Accompanying__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">all </span>__these__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic ...</span> __such a conflagration.__



**<span style="color: black;">Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence independently risks superpower conflict </span>****and miscalc**

**Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, JMP)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Try this quiz.... </span> __really be war.__



**//Any// US-China conflict will go nuclear** 

<span class="cite">Kolko, 06 </span>(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is neither possible ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> consummate folly.</span>__ </span>


**U.S.-China relations solve every scenario for extinction—economic decline, global insecurity, warming, prolif, and terrorism are all inevitable without significant bilateral co-operation**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> **Cohen 9** (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @</span>[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf|__http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf__]]<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> //ef) </span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> The evolution of Sino-U.S. ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> **inevitable**, is indispensable</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Warming ensures extinction**

**Tickell ‘8** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, 8-11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) </span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">hothouse Earth</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



=Leadership 1AC= 

**China will inevitably grow in power – the only danger is if the US decides to contain it** 

**Ateba, 02** – PhD candidate at Peking University’s school of International Studies (Bertrand, “Is the rise of China a security threat?” http://www.polis.sciencespobordeaux.fr/vol10ns/ateba.pdf)



<span class="Underline">By many standards ... <span style="font-size: 7pt;">growing power entitles it. </span></span>



**The status quo focus on maintaining military presence and encroaching into China’s sphere of influence leads to nuclear conflagration** 

Eland 05- <span style="font-weight: normal;">Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (Ivan, 4/11/05, “Coexisting with a Rising China,” http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494)</span>


Although China is an autocratic ... <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> even a nuclear conflagration.</span> </span>





**Motivating Beijing to take a greater regional role via withdrawal ensures its peaceful rise**
**Bandow, 09** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So Washington should exhibit... </span> __accommodate each other__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’s economic and geopolitical ambitions. </span>



**Chinese regional leadership prevents global economic collapse and nuclear conflict**
**Buzan and Foot 2004** – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science AND Professor of International Relations at St. Anthony College (Barry and Rosemary, Does China Matter? A Reassessment: Essays in Memory of Gerald Segal, ed. by B. Buzan and R. Foot, Questia, p. 145-147)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The underlying argument in ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to promote constrainment. </span>



Economic collapse leads to global instability and nuclear war.

<span class="Heading2Char">Mead, 09</span> – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, such half-hearted ... </span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we may</span> still <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have to fight.</span>__

== == 

**Bringing China to the table through troop withdrawal is key to East Asian stability and denuclearizing North Korea**
**Bandow 10**
[Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” 5/25/10, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845] 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How to maintain the peace ... also be warranted. </span>



**//Only//** **China can effectively influence North Korea, US efforts will continue to fail** 

**Tisdale, 5/24** - an <span style="color: black;">assistant editor of the Guardian</span> and a foreign affairs columnist (5/24/10, Simon, The Guardian, " China faces touch choices over Korea ", <span style="color: black;">http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/may/24/china-faces-tough-choices-korea</span>) 



<span class="Underline">The unpalatable truth ... <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> Korea and the US that China send that signal</span>." </span>



**//Any// North Korean aggression or nuclear use goes nuclear and guarantees extinction** 

**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf</span>) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly ... the international community. </span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #14ff00; font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">[[Japan (John's Creek)]]</span>==== 

**Thus the plan –**
The United States federal government should, excluding the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit and a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities, substantially reduce its Marine presence in Japan.


**Contention 1 is Inherency**

<span class="Underline">**No Futenma resolution coming now**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **AFP 9/16**/10 (“US puts no timeline on Japan base resolution,” [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5jdIJ-IcCyAj7FaIvclQjFnv9Rixw]], WRW)</span>

<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>The U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>said<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thursday... post-World War II treaty. </span></span>

1ac – Plan

**Thus the plan –**
The United States federal government should, excluding the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit and a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities, substantially reduce its Marine presence in Japan.


1ac – Alliance

**[[Advantage 1 is the Alliance]]**

**Futenma is like a time bomb on the entire U.S. Japan alliance**
**Weaver 6/18**/10 (Teri, Hana Kusomoto, and Chiyomi Sumida, “Futenma fight could linger despite Japan's new prime minister,” Stars and Stripes, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689|www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689]])

<span class="Underline">Kan<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is taking a different tack ... “</span>is like a time bomb<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span></span>

**Now is the key time to resolve Futenma – only way to prevent collapse of the relationship.**
<span class="Underline">**Smith 7/26**/10 – </span>Senior Fellow for Japan at the Council on Foreign Relations (Sheila, “Successful U.S.-Japan agenda must meet public expectations,” http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm)

<span class="Underline"> Our shared interests are ... into the next generation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**Watch out! – alliance key to most impacts**
**Nye and Armitage 2007** February 2007. CSIS. The U.S.- Japan Alliance Getting Asia Right Through 2020. Richard L. Armitage, President, Armitage International.Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.
http://www.armitageinternational.com/news/file-2007-02-16-122048US-Japan%20Alliance-Getting%20Asia%20Right%20Through%202020.pdf

In the report issued six ... __given, much will be expected.__


1ac – Deterrence

**[[Advantage 2 is Bases]]**

**The status quo ensures a political disaster that will cripple the alliance and support for all of our bases in Japan which are the absolute key to our power projection in Asia**
**Ennis 6/18**/10 – former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html)

<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The exchanges of the last week ... between Washington and Tokyo. </span></span>

And, Trying to hold onto our Marine presence causes a political backlash that ensures we lose all of our bases – Sacrificing one base now saves 100 in the crunch – The plan doesn’t hurt our deterrence or credibility
O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Century Defense Initiative, 1 (Michael, “Military Readiness & Overseas Commitments,” Defense Policy Choices for the Bush Administration, 2001-2005)

Not only is the continuous … in the region's stability

<span class="Underline">**The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – key to Asian stability**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **Barkdoll ’06** – Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies (Timothy, March 15, “</span>The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College, pg. 21-24)

<span class="Underline"> The security alliance has served as the cornerstone ... most significant challenge in that pursuit.</span>

**[[Two scenarios First is Kadena –|Two scenarios]]**
**[[Two scenarios First is Kadena –|First is Kadena –]]**

**Not doing the plan undermines our ability to hold onto Kadena – the plan saves the base without impacting deterrence**
**O’Hanlon ’04** – Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative (Michael, September 2, before the Commission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States, [[http://govinfo.library.unt.edu/osbc/documents/OSBC%20transcript%209-2-04.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second point. Okinawa, Japan ... </span> __we don't reconsider some of that__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Kadena is more important for deterrence that Marine presence – plan shores up political support for the base**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **Mochizuki and O’Hanlon ’10** – *</span> Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and **Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Century Defense Initiative (Mike and Michael, “A proposed compromise on Futenma: The unnecessary crisis,” The Oriental Economist, January, pg. 13-14)**

**<span class="Underline"> Why have Washington and Tokyo ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the US-Japan Security Treaty. </span></span>**

Kadena solves China-Taiwan conflict
Ross ’02 **– Professor of Political Science at Boston College & Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies at Harvard University (Robert, “Navigating the Taiwan Strait: Deterrence, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations,” International Security, pg. 76-77)**

**__Deterrence could fail if China’s ...__ __with Kadena-based U.S. aircraft__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.81 </span>**

US gets drawn in – ensures global escalation and nuclear war
Hunkovic ’09 **– American Military University (Lee, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict: Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan, and the United States,” American Military University Course Paper, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf)**

**<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">World News Connection (2006) then addresses .. considered in this study. </span></span>**

Second is Air Craft Carriers
Status quo puts fatal stress on the alliance – we’d lose the ability to station an aircraft carrier in Japan which militarily isolates Japan and undercuts our credibility in Asia
Auslin 6/16**/10 – Director of Japan Studies at the American Enterprise Institute & former History Professor & Senior Research Fellow at the MacMilan Center for International & Area Studies at Yale (Michael, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” Wall Street Journal Asia, [[http://www.aei.org/article/102196]])**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A great sigh of relief erupted ... is another matter. </span></span>**

Carrier-based deterrence maintains world peace – prevents inevitable brushfires from becoming global conflagrations
Johnson and Krulak ’96 **– *Chief of Naval Operations and** Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps (Jay and Charles, “Forward Presence Essential to U.S. Interests,” http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=870)

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also this morning, U.S. Navy amphibious ... </span> uncertain and sometimes fiery times<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>
1ac – Solvency
**[[Contention 3 is Solvency]]**

**Failure to reduce the impact of Marine presence in Japan leads to the collapse of and support for the U.S. Japan alliance**
**Yamaguchi 3/17**/10 – Professor at the National Defense Academy of Japan, National Defense Academy of Japan graduate, Master’s from the Fletcher School of Law & Diplomacy, former Visiting Scholar at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, form Senior Defense Attached at the Embassy of Japan in the U.S., former Vice Commandant of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Ground Research & Development Command, & former Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies (Noboru, “Beware Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]</span>)

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this context, </span>we must .. state may be altered fundamentally<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**Failure to move the Marines will rock the alliance and ignite opposition to our other bases in Japan – the plan is the best way to shore up our defense capabilities**
**Ennis 8/18**/10 – former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist (Peter, “Gates and Japan,” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/08/gates-and-japan.html)

<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Okinawa is home to the III ... base in Kyushu. </span></span>


==== ==== 
====South Korea (Same for Wake and Hooch)==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Plan </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The United States Federal Government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence in the Republic of Korea** </span>
== == 
======<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Korean Conflict advantage**</span>====== 



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage one is Korean Conflict </span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">First is North Korean provocations </span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The status quo is not an option – it invites further attacks </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 10** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html</span>, )</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> It has been weeks since ... defend its own personnel.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Their evidence is outdated—recent changes make the North willing to risk it—it’s inevitable as long as we’re present </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 10** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336</span>, )</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Suspicions continue to mount <span style="background: yellow;">... </span>continue doing so in 2010 is bizarre.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Bad economy makes it inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Reuters, 10** (3/17/10, Jon Herskovitz, “North Korea may turn more menacing but options limited,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="color: black;">http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62G12T20100317</span>, )</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> ANOTHER NUCLEAR TEST ... Crisis Group said in a report this week.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, our presence actively facilitates this belligerence </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 08** – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812</span>, JMP)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Still, does an American ... deter U.S. intervention.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korea will respond with all out war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **GSN, 6/4** (6/4/10, Global Security Newswire, “War Possible at Any Time, North Korea Says,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="color: black;">http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100604_1842.php</span>, )</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> A high-ranking North Korean ... punishment for the incident.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Causes nuclear attack on the U.S<span style="color: black;">. even if nukes aren’t used in Asia </span></span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black;">Layne, 06 – </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of government at Texas A & M University (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="color: black;"> Rather than being ...</span> entrapped in Eurasian conflicts by its alliance commitments.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Withdrawal solves – stops North Korea probing U.S. weakness to draw forces into a wider conflict. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Stanton, 10** – U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml</span>, JMP)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Proceeding against the ... stopped clock, aligns with the correct result.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The second internal link is the</span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> succession –</span>**


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Internal power struggle will facilitate North Korean conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 6/9** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (6/9/10, Doug, The Daily Caller, “Confronting North Korea: Who’s in charge?”<span style="color: black;">http://dailycaller.com/2010/06/09/confronting-north-korea-whos-in-charge/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> , JMP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> We see through a glass ...problem far more than Washington’s problem.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Succession politics makes provocations more likely and dangerous and crushes the chance of effective engagement to rollback North Korea’s nuclear program </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 09** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (7/29/09, Doug, “Kim’s Heir,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21908</span>, JMP)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> President George W. Bush famously ...unsettled and dangerous future.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">U.S. presence creates the perception of conventional weaknesses and forces North Korea to resort to CBW use </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **ICG, 09** (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx</span>, JMP)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> This report examines North... <span style="background: yellow;">**WMD attacks or incidents.**</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks – greater risk that nuclear weapons </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Levy, 07** (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html</span>, JMP)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Immediately following 9-11... large quantities can be developed within days.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Impact is extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Of all the weapons of mass destruction ... then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korean aggression guarantees escalation </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf</span>)**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> The international community ... 20 sailors aboard was sunk.</span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> The plan solves by motivating China and South Korea to effectively influence the leadership transition</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Bandow, 08 –** Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (9/15/08, Doug, “Dear Leader Goes South,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=19868</span>, JMP)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Two men have ruled ... <span style="background: yellow;">South Korea and China.</span></span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Chinese involvement is key to stabilize Korea</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **Bandow, 10 – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336</span>, JMP)**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Second, the United States ... involving China in the North Korean issue</span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> A phased withdrawal prevents U.S. draw in</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Carpenter, 09 – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf</span>, JMP)**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> South Korea The U.S. alliance ... very little benefit today for keeping South Korea as a security client.</span>



=<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">China Advantage</span>= 



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">US-Presence in South Korea is destroying US-Chinese relations and has become a means to assert power against China in the region risking a return to Cold-War confrontation and causing China to support the DPRK.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> The National 9/5 -Arab newspaper (5/9/10, “A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1140]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> "<span style="background: yellow;">This is the beginning of a fundamental </span>... tensions from escalating,” he said.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> China’s rise is inevitable – the way the US handles the transfer of power is key to ensuring a strong bilateral alliance</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Jones 2k7 (Andy, University of St. Andrews, “China’s rise and American Hegemony: towards a peaceful coexistence?” 12-22-2007, http://www.e-ir.info/?p=149)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Twenty-first century Sino-American ... regional balance of power politics.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Withdrawal from South Korea leads to China sharing both a regional and a global leadership burden with the US and increases relations – this solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Garfinkle, 03 – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, )</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY ... We can help them do so.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> US-China conflict will go nuclear</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kolko, 06</span> </span>(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> It is neither possible nor ... <span style="background: yellow;">also consummate folly.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> American support of China’s rise is key to a permanent bilateral order, maintaining a strong global economy, reducing poverty and stopping global warming</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Shirk – 7 (Susan, former deputy assistant secretary for China, U.S. State Department, CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, p. 269)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Our best hope ... <span style="background: yellow;">maturity- not to try to go it alone.</span></span>

[[#_Toc228809249]]



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Combating poverty is the litmus test for human survival—protecting the poorest of the poor is a moral and practical imperative</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solo 92</span></span> (Pam, president of the nonprofit and nonpartisan Civil Society Institute, "Who Do We Think We Are?," Cultural Survival Quarterly, 4/30, http://209.200.101.189/publications/CSQ/csq-article.cfm?id=552)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> As the next millennium approaches, ... <span style="background: yellow;">moral and a practical imperative</span>.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Chinese regional leadership prevents global economic collapse and nuclear conflict</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Buzan and Foot 2004 – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science AND Professor of International Relations at St. Anthony College (Barry and Rosemary, Does China Matter? A Reassessment: Essays in Memory of Gerald Segal, ed. by B. Buzan and R. Foot, Questia, p. 145-147)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> The underlying argument ... Gerry's concern to promote constrainment.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Economic collapse leads to global instability and nuclear war.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mead, 09</span></span> – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> So far, such half-hearted ... <span style="background: yellow;">we may</span> still <span style="background: yellow;">have to fight.</span></span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">There has always been a China “threat”. Our institutions need enemies to survive, and China fits the bill—this cycle of enemy creation necessitates the sacrificial destruction of millions, makes war inevitable and leads to billions in economic waste.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Clark, 06 (No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">).</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> For as long as I have been in the China ... <span style="background: yellow;">been spent. And millions have died.</span></span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Withdrawal will reduce tensions</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Davino 04 – Director for Manpower, Personnel, and Administration of the United States Pacific Command (Michael F. Davino, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in Korea?” Strategy Research Project, 3/15/04, <span style="color: black;">http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:L0E672qcx5cJ:scholar.google.com/+USFK+should&hl=en&as_sdt=80000000</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> IMPACT OF PREVIOUS ... planned as part of the withdrawal.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Reliance on US prevents ROK military modernization which is key to deterring Pyongyang Mangum 04</span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Ronald S., Professor who is a retired U.S. Army Brigadier General. He currently consults in the former Soviet Republic of Georgia as Senior Advisor to the Ministry of Defense, responsible for advising the Georgian government on the development of its National Security Strategy., “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, The Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, 16(1), Spring, http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Even though adopting joint ... soldiers and its weapons systems.</span></span>

=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[NEG]]</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">T substantial</span>== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">A substantial reduction in military presence is at least 50%</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL ... and moved to another installation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Presence is the totality of military activities in each country. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Barry M. </span>**Blechman et al1997

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Given its multifaceted nature .. . </span>**__sustainment capabilities__
===Congress Funding PIC=== 

**<span style="color: black;">Text: The Congress should cut off all funds for... </span>**

Congress exclusively has the power to cut off funds—military strategy and troop movements are exclusively the power of the President. This proves that the CP would sever out of the plan action of withdrawal.
**Feldman, 07** Noah, Harvard Law Professor, 2/4/200<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7,</span></span> "THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-04-07; Whose War Powers?," http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F50912FD3F5B0C778CDDAB0894DF404482, access 9/9/10

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0in;">The president, as usual, ...<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> not try to dictate tactics. </span></span></span>

**Now is the key time for Congress to assert itself by cutting off funds—it will set a precedent that will reign in future Presidential abuses.**
**Schenwar, 09** (Mary, Executive Director of truthout, Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers Wednesday 14 January 2009 http://www.truth-out.org/011409J)

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">As America anticipates ... introducing the legislation.</span>

Unfettered executive power puts too much power in the hands of one person. Empirically, this creates massive foreign policy crises and risks nuclear conflict
**Adler, 96** (David, professor of political science at Idaho State, __The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy__, p. 23-25)

__The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">structure of shared ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> representatives in Congress. </span>


==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">NMS CP</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that** </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">. </span>**
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> To meet these __...__ __global security environment__.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Meinhart 8</span>
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)


Should not __the__ __...__ now begins today.

﻿










<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">﻿Hillman K</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">﻿</span>**
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The anti-war imaginings of the 1AC are another way for sovereignty to create a new, benign warfare justified by the principles of anti-weapons rhetoric. The 1AC reinforces values that become the new basis for humanitarian warfare—our hatred of war makes us use violence even against war itself. Repressing the desire for war only erupts in the delusional use of war, it makes it more violent and dominating. Only by coming to see war as thinkable and by entering into it can we break the delusion of war waged in the name of peace.**</span>
<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205, JB)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">There remains ... </span>____<span style="color: black;">hypocrisy of noble proclamations . </span>__

=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc268113243]]</span>= 

The impact is a loss of self-actualization and association with the soul as humans become hollow beings that can’t relate to the world—and that legitimizes nuclear omnicide
Davis ‘1<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96 AM)</span>

Davis ‘1<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96 AM)</span>

__It is never enough__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">... </span>__struggle with the sublime.__

=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc268113244]]</span>= 

<span style="color: black;">The alternative is to reject the pacifistic horrors of the affirmative! EMBRACE WAR, ENTER INTO IT! We must engage in war, not in the name of peace, but for the sake of war itself. When we gaze across the battlefield, across the carnage, the death and decay and destruction, we recognize the feelings these sights stir inside of us as what they are: a love of war. The question remains: which is better psychologically? Acceptance or repression? Our argument is that repression fails. Instead of fearing weapons, we should recognize our obsession with them; we should enter into our love with them.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Hillman 04</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 125-126, JB)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">It is as if the gods </span>____<span style="color: black;">... </span>____<span style="color: black;">ghosts can't get me. </span>__


=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc268113245]]</span>= 


Next, our framework—the psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it
Jung 06<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85, AM)</span>

__<span style="background: yellow;">Separation from his ...</span>__ __happen to everyone.__
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">﻿</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> ﻿Security</span>== 

=1nc—security k= 

**1ac threat framing is based on misplaced cultural discourse, fixating dangerously inaccurate Cold War logic**
**Grondin 2004** – PhD, Professor of Political Science at the University of Ottawa (David, “(Re)Writing the National Security State”, paper presented at the annual International Studies Association Convention in Ottawa, http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/chairerd/site/uploads/files/publications/etudes_raoul_dandurand/rewrinting_the_national_security_state.pdf)

I disagree with this essentialist ... __s of existence are generated.__


**This feeds an endless cycle of enemy creation and identity formation**
**Wendt 1992** – the Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at Ohio State, also professor at Yale, Dartmouth, and University of Chicago (Alexander, “Social theory of international politics”, pages 261-266, Google Books, WEA)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Enemy images have a long pedigree</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">changes in technology (nuclear weapons).</span>__

**Alternative: reject the aff because their representations are flawed depictions of the world.**

**Only this primes us for better policymaking—the security dilemma is a product of assumptions we dispute**
**Widmaier 2004** – Department of Political Science, St. Joseph’s University (Wesley, International Studies Review, 6.3, “Theory as a factor and the theorist as an actor: The ‘Pragmatist Constructivist’ lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith”, EBSCO, WEA)

__This realignment of debate__ ... __international politics__ (Edwards 1990).

==Orientalism== 
<span class="Underline">**Western understandings of the East are grounded in paternalistic Orientalism—all their arguments stand on shaky epistemological ground that legitimizes endless violence—turns the case** **Anand 07**—Reader, IR, U Westminster. PhD, politics, Bristol (Dibyesh, Western Colonial Representations of the Other, http://staff.bath.ac.uk/ecsda/DAnandNPSArticleMar07.pdf) Note – epiphenomenal = a secondary question/phenomenon <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Within the context of European imperialism, </span> ... <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">natives and idealization of some. </span> </span> **Orientalist understandings of the world make extinction inevitable** **Bilgin 05** – Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, “REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE”, PAGE 164-165 <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Thinking about the future ... </span>__<span style="color: black;">insecurity in the Middle East. </span>__ **Reject the affirmative’s Orientalist worldview – only the alternative can escape the trap of imperialistic problem solving and create a practical break in dominant hierarchies** **Bilgin 04**—assistant prof, IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales (Pinar, Is the 'Orientalist' past the Future of Middle East Studies?, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 2, 423-433, JSTOR) <span style="font-size: 7pt;">To go back to ... </span><span class="Underline"> **challenging common sense**.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This is what Said sought to do in his lifetime.52 </span> Will K

**The affirmatives attempt to fixate the will’s desires leads to the ever-present restlessness and disparity of life. They have no ground to stand on due to the ever fleeting present**
**Abelson 93,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter, professor of philosophy at the University of Hawaii, “SCHOPENHAUER AND BUDDHISM” Philosophy East and West Volume 43, Numer 2 April 1993 P.255-278 </span>

__Old age__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__death ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">metaphysical inclinations as well. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">Our alternative is to reject the aff as a means of reassessing the representations of the Will, </span>****This will eliminate our surprise and the emotions that we feel towards each new misery. This “irrational policy” is more important than rational policymaking**

**<span style="color: black;">Meštrović 89</span>**<span style="color: black;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stjepan, American sociologist, professor, author of over fifteen books[1] and a distinguished expert in matters of war crimes. “Rethinking the Will and Idea of Sociology in the Light of Schopenhauer's Philosophy” The British Journal of Sociology Vol. 40, No. 2 (Jun., 1989), pp. 271-293</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rethinking the will ... </span> __idea of sociology 275__


**Reality is the blind will to live, and life is painful misery. It is a mistake persevere in the will to live, desire associated with life will be unsatisfied leading to suffering and endless hunger, The affirmatives desire to feed the will and prevent death is a reason to reject it. The alternative is to reject the affirmative as a method of rejecting the will to live, and in turn suppressing the endless pain associated with desire. Empirics do not annul misery**
**The Radical Academy 03**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">collection of philosophical essays selected and evaluated by a network of philosophy specialists. “The Philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer” http://www.radicalacademy.com/philschopenhauer.htm#metaphysics)NH</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If reality is the</span> blind ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">world and of life. </span>


=1nc- Will K= 
**The affirmatives attempt to fixate the will’s desires leads to the ever-present restlessness and disparity of life. They have no ground to stand on due to the ever fleeting present**
**Abelson 93,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter, professor of philosophy at the University of Hawaii, “SCHOPENHAUER AND BUDDHISM” Philosophy East and West Volume 43, Numer 2 April 1993 P.255-278 </span>

__Old age__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__death ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">inclinations as well. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">Our alternative is to reject the aff as a means of reassessing the representations of the Will, </span>****This will eliminate our surprise and the emotions that we feel towards each new misery. This “irrational policy” is more important than rational policymaking**

**<span style="color: black;">Meštrović 89</span>**<span style="color: black;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stjepan, American sociologist, professor, author of over fifteen books[1] and a distinguished expert in matters of war crimes. “Rethinking the Will and Idea of Sociology in the Light of Schopenhauer's Philosophy” The British Journal of Sociology Vol. 40, No. 2 (Jun., 1989), pp. 271-293</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rethinking the will and idea... </span>__Rethinking the will and idea of sociology 275__


**Reality is the blind will to live, and life is painful misery. It is a mistake persevere in the will to live, desire associated with life will be unsatisfied leading to suffering and endless hunger, The affirmatives desire to feed the will and prevent death is a reason to reject it. The alternative is to reject the affirmative as a method of rejecting the will to live, and in turn suppressing the endless pain associated with desire. Empirics do not annul misery**
**The Radical Academy 03**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">collection of philosophical essays selected and evaluated by a network of philosophy specialists. “The Philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer” http://www.radicalacademy.com/philschopenhauer.htm#metaphysics)NH </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If reality is the</span> blind ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> conceptions of the world and of life. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia;">﻿CASE specific</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">﻿</span>
==**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">﻿</span>**Afghanistan (We have still only hit Afghanistan at Wake and Hooch, this is redunkulous)== 
﻿









﻿











1. Status quo COIN policy is effective—mission failure arguments don’t assume the COIN timeline—Infrastructure and troop build-up just finished and initial operations are a huge success
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Max </span>**Boot 9/2/1010

<span class="underline">__The assumption ...__ __are down sharply__</span>.

2. Patreus will make Afghanistan a success and trends prove—he’s wiping insurgents out and supporting political development—multiple policy and organizational changes make now different
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Frederick </span>**Kagan 7/5/1010

<span class="underline">__Success in Afghanistan is possible ...__ __controlled and eliminated safe-havens.__</span>

3. US has incorporated counter-terrorism within COIN operations—status quo accesses all of their solvency arguments but doesn’t link to our COIN good offense
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Max </span>**Boot 8/2/1010

It is always dismaying ... __<span class="underline">shift to a focused counterterrorism strategy. </span>__

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">4. </span>**Abandoning COIN kills the mission—CT boosts terrorist recruitment and instability—8 years of failure proves that CT should only be a supplement—math and history add up for COIN
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Max </span>**Boot 099

The case against a counterterrorism ... <span class="underline">__by the Russians in Afghanistan.__</span>

5. CT fails and results in a terrorist takeover—indepenendtly, ramped up CT causes cross-border strikes that cause Pakistan collapse
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Bill </span>**Roggio 99

<span class="underline">__US military__</span> and intelligence ... <span class="underline">__al Qaeda and the Taliban.__</span>

AND—Pakistan collapse leads to nuclear war
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stephen </span>**Morgan 077**, "Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?" http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639**

**<span class="underline">__Should__ __...____against the US.__</span>**



=1nc—heg adv= 

**No impact—heg doesn’t solve its impacts**
**Mastanduno 9** (Michael, Professor of Government at Dartmouth, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco, DB)

__<span style="color: black;">During the cold war ... </span>____<span style="color: black;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">getting its own way</span>. </span>__

**Peaceful shift to multipolarity now, it’s inevitable**
**Grant 10** – writer, editor, TrueSlant (Japhy, “Time to calm our long national freak-out”, http://trueslant.com/japhygrant/2010/07/10/wet-hot-american-summer/)

<span class="Underline">__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> week’s <span class="Underline">__bizarre scene ...__ </span></span><span class="Underline"> __than what preceded it__</span>.

**Multipolarity inevitable, it’s worse to cling**
Christopher **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Layne 2009</span>** (Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University) “The Peace of Illusions” p 190

<span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Advocates of hegemony claim t... </span></span><span class="Highlightedunderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 10pt;"> great power Eurasian wars</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**No solvency—countries balance**
**Walt 5** (Stephen, Professor of at Harvard, 9/5/5, “Taming American Power”, anglais.u-paris10.fr/IMG/doc/Taming_American_Power_Stephen_M_.doc, DB)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">U.S. POLICYMAKERS have spent t... rebuilding its crumbling international image. </span>

=1nc—overstretch frontline= 
**Can’t solve overstretch—the people that leave Afghanistan go somewhere else.**

**NO overstretch and it doesn’t affect heg**
**Lieber, 8** - Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert, “The Declinists Are Wrong Again,” Perspectives Papers on Current Affairs, 7/30, [[http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives47.html]])


<span class="Underline">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Scarcely a day goes ... </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> imminent danger of overstretch</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Their predictions of overstretch and decline are wrong—don’t trust doomsayers**
Carla **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Norrlof</span>** (an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Toronto) **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2010</span>** “ America’s Global Advantage US Hegemony and International Cooperation” p. 1-2

<span class="Underline">__The United States has ...__ __policy would otherwise have.__ </span>


=1nc—bilat treaty cp= 


The United States federal government should:
**--negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan.**
**--adopt a counterinsurgency strategy primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline**
**--freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations.**
**--neither implement rapid, large military withdrawals nor use an exclusive counter-terrorism strategy in Afghanistan.**
**--create a strategy for the development of the Modern Silk Road and generate incentives to invest in this project while pressuring local governments to decrease bureaucratic obstacles to trade.**
**--offer to substantially increase diplomatic rewards to Pakistan in exchange for cooperation against the Taliban and related insurgents.**
**--fully implement a 15 month enlistment period, including support for college and other funding, without an eight year stop-loss obligation.**

Clarifying commitment to Afghanistan solves insurgency and terrorism, solves COIN
**<span class="Heading3Char">Lynch, 08</span> - U.S. Army Colonel<span class="Heading1Char"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, </span></span><span class="bio">military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In mid-January, Defense Secretary ... </span><span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;"> been ducked for far too long.</span>**

Changing COIN to protect the population undercuts extremism and empirically works
Tellis, 9 **– senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf</span>)**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Reorienting the counterinsurgency c...</span><span class="Underline"> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">inhospitable to their operations</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.82</span>**

Colombia proves that training reform solves
Haddick, 10 **- A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of //Small Wars Journal//, writes the “This Week at War” column for //Foreign Policy//, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for //The American// //(Robert, “//Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,” //<span style="color: black;">Air & Space Power Journal</span>// - <span style="color: black;">Summer 2010</span>, <span style="color: black;">http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html</span>)**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Colombia’s Lessons for Afghanistan </span><span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> an effective Afghan army.</span>__**

Only we solve because counterterrorism fails
**O’Hanlon and**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> Shejan, 10 </span>**- Michael O’Hanlon, senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues, and Hassina Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for education, (2010, “Toughening it out in Afghanistan,” p. 5-7)**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The stakes, however, go ... But it is a poor substitute. </span>**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rebuilding the silk road is key to sustainable development and stability </span></span>**
**<span class="cite">Kuchins et al 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Fellow and Director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program (Andrew, Thomas Sanderson - Deputy Director and Senior Fellow in the CSIS Transnational Threats Project, David Gordon - Research Assistant and Program Coordinator, “Afghanistan: Building the Missing Link in the Modern Silk Road,” April, Washington Quarterly, <span style="color: black;">http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_KuchinsSandersonGordon.pdf</span>, EMM) </span>**

**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Achieving <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the...</span></span></span> fixture in the heart of Eurasia.**





=1nc – withdrawal da= 


Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war
Kagan and Kagan, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">former prof of military history @ West Point</span></span> AND </span>** military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “ <span class="detailtitle">Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110) </span>

__It is very likely that ...__ __use of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">nuclear weapons</span>.__

**Premature withdrawal annihilates American international credibility. Emboldens adversaries and sends a global signal that the US is thoroughly undependable.**
**Twining ‘9** (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The surreal belief</span> ...__ interests nor our values.

**The impact is global nuclear war**
**Carafano, 10** - //s//enior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies. (James, //“//Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1/2 <span style="color: black;">http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/</span>)

Not much chance Obama <span class="Underline">... very big, tragic war</span>.

**Perception of abandment kills Russian relations and hegemony**
Gordon M **Hahn** <span style="color: black;">5/21/200</span>**<span style="color: black;">9</span>** <span style="color: black;">senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant</span>. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]]</span>__ ZM

<span style="color: black;">However, </span>__<span style="color: black;">there <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is some ... </span></span>____<span style="color: black;">benefit the region’s jihadists.</span>__<span class="A7">__6__ </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S.-Russia relations key to global cooperation that solves great power war, WMD use, terrorism, disease, prolif, and climate change </span>**
**Graham 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Thomas Graham, f</span><span style="color: black;">oreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> July 2008 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What trends? Simply put, ... </span> __lasting security economic structures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late. __...__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> determined to maintain "business as usual.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Losing the war: On chicken</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">We are losing the Afghan war, on chicken </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">New York Times 11</span>**, Dan Bilefsky reporter New York Times, “A Chicken War in New York, Where Afghans Rule the Roost” 2-13-11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/02/14/nyregion/14chicken.html?partner=rss&emc=rss nh) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Abdul Haye, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">the</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">self-styled </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Colonel Sanders of</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> New York’s </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Afghan community, has declared a fried chicken war.</span>__</span> <span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">He has armed himself with an unwritten secret recipe</span>____<span style="color: black;"> that he claims allows him to fry the best bird in town</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. His main weapon, he says, is ownership of the trademark for the </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">K</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">ennedy </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">F</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">ried </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">C</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">hicken brand, which </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">has spawned hundreds of imitators</span>____<span style="color: black;"> as far south as Georgia</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, and has become to oily drumsticks what the ubiquitous Ray’s name once was to New York pizza. That Kennedy, named after the former president, was itself a deliberate imitation of Kentucky Fried Chicken, down to those familiar initials — and that it had its own trademark battle a generation ago — seems to make little difference to </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Mr. Haye</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, 38. A wired and wiry resident of Whitestone, Queens, he began working as a chicken fryer when he was 17, soon after he immigrated in 1989, and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">describes his rivals with </span>____<span style="color: black;">ire similar to that he reserves for <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the Taliban. “I’m declaring war against all the Afghans in New York who have stolen my name and my idea,</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">” Mr. Haye said the other day at one of his five chicken outlets, showing off the trademark certificate that the United States Patent and Trademark Office in Washington had awarded him in 2005. He waved a thick stack of some of the 300 registered letters he began to mail last week to Kennedy outlets across the country, insisting that they pay him a monthly franchise fee, or face legal action. “</span>__<span style="color: black;">Their poor-quality chicken is going to kill my reputation,” </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Mr. Haye complained. “</span>__<span style="color: black;">I am the only real Kennedy!</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">” While lamb is a protein of choice in Mr. Haye’s homeland, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">two generations of Afghans in America have found a lifeline in the humble chicken.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Those in the industry say there are </span>__<span style="color: black;">some <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">350 Afghan-owned chicken stores </span>across the five boroughs <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">employing thousands of Afghan-Americans. Plates</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> of battered breasts — all halal, to be sure — </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">are served at local mosques</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> after Friday prayers, and short-order </span>__<span style="color: black;">cooks stash prayer mats next to the freezers<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. Fried chicken has put children through college</span>, financed elaborate weddings, provided work for newly arrived refugees <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and put food on the table for relatives back in Kabul</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">the fast-food world can seem</span>____<span style="color: black;"> as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">tribal</span> as Afghanistan itself</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Mr. Haye’s crusade threatens to unravel the fragile harmony in the fried chicken fraternity</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. “We won’t pay a penny,” huffed Nour Abdullah, the manager of Kennedy Fried Chicken on Junction Boulevard in Corona, Queens, which seems indistinguishable from Mr. Haye’s except for the fried shrimp balls and gyros on the menu. “I can rename the shop Munir Fried Chicken after my son or even New Kennedy Fried Chicken. Then </span>__<span style="color: black;">let’s see what he’s going to do.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">” A few doors down, </span>__<span style="color: black;">Najib Ullah</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, a chicken fryer from Kabul, </span>__<span style="color: black;">was equally defiant</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. “</span>__<span style="color: black;">Anyone can own a Kennedy, and I’ve never heard of this Abdul</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Haye,” he said. “Every place has a different owner: same chicken, different menu. So what’s the problem?” One recent Friday at Hazrat-I-Abubakr Sadiq, a predominantly Afghan mosque in Flushing, Queens, the consensus among the congregants was that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Mr. Haye may have the law on his side, but Afghan intransigence, conditioned during</span>____<span style="color: black;"> decades of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war</span> and occupation<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, was firmly stacked against him.</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Mohammad Sherzad, the avuncular imam, said that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Allah provided enough chicken to go around</span>__</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The Koran, he noted, gives its blessing to Muslims eating chicken, as long as it is slaughtered in accordance with Islamic dietary laws. According to local lore, Zia Taeb, who came to New York from Kabul in 1972, opened the first Kennedy Fried Chicken three years later on Nostrand Avenue in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. The outlet and its red-and-white logo, which many confused with Kentucky Fried Chicken, quickly prospered, helping him earn the nickname Zia Morgh, or “Zia Chicken” in Dari, a language spoken in Afghanistan. It also attracted the notice of </span>__<span style="color: black;">Kentucky Fried Chicken, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">which </span>__<span style="color: black;">sued Kennedy for trademark infringement in 1990 in a New York federal court</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> — </span>__<span style="color: black;">and won</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> — before changing its name to KFC the next year, which muted the dispute. “I didn’t speak much English then, but it was easy to see that you could make money,” Mr. Taeb said, recalling his first days in New York. “The price of chicken was inexpensive and stable, and anyone could work behind the counter.” The same way Korean bodegas, Greek diners and Indian-owned gas stations exploded, Mr. Taeb’s foray into the chicken business had a ripple effect: Afghan immigrants who worked at his six Kennedy outlets soon opened up their own outposts with names like Crown Fried Chicken, Royal Fried Chicken and Mamma’s Fried Chicken. Or, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Kennedy copycats: a quarter-century later, more than 200 such places, in nine states and Canada and England, are listed on kennedyfriedchicken.com.</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Reached by phone in San Diego, where he has long since retired from the chicken business, Mr. Taeb, who now exports precious stones to China, said he had chosen the Kennedy name “because </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Afghans are fond of the former president</span>__</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.” And he insisted that he — not Mr. Haye — was the rightful owner of the Kennedy brand. “</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">He won’t win because I know my people, and Afghans will never pay him,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">” he said. </span>__<span style="color: black;">“I will go after him</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.” Mr. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Haye</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, who bought his first fried chicken place after a seven-month apprenticeship at a Kennedy outlet in Queens, conceded that Zia Morgh was a poultry pioneer. But he </span>__<span style="color: black;">sees himself as the reigning chicken king</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. Haye said he first started using the Kennedy Fried Chicken name in 1994, though he waited nearly 10 years to apply for a trademark. Mr. Haye said he also changed the logo on his Kennedy stores from red to blue in the 1990s to avoid antagonizing KFC and its army of lawyers. Jennifer Rankin Byrne, a spokeswoman for the trademark office, declined to comment on the Kennedy case specifically, but said a federal trademark registration for restaurant services “</span>__<span style="color: black;">established a legal presumption that the registration owner has the exclusive right to use the mark nationwide</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.” According to the patent office’s database, there have been five other trademark applications for the Kennedy name since 1991, each of which was either denied or abandoned. Rick Maynard, a spokesman for KFC, acknowledged that </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">the company had inspired imitators across the world and said it was continuing to “vigorously protect” </span>__</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">its trademark</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. Haye insists he will do the same. But </span>__<span style="color: black;">even armed with his trademark certificate, which he keeps in a safe deposit box, he conceded <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it would take a skilled warrior to regain control of the Kennedy Fried Chicken brand</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Though he dreams of identically outfitted Kennedy outlets, with marble counters from Mecca, servers in crisp red uniforms, and chicken spiced with the secret sauce made by a cook in the Bronx (hint: copious amounts of gray pepper and garlic), he said </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">he knew he would have to contend with willful rivals</span>____<span style="color: black;">, too-close-for-comfort <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">name adjustments, </span>and Kennedy Fried Chicken joints that sell pizza egg rolls</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Hunched over a plate of lamb chops at his favorite Afghan restaurant in Queens, he shook his head and sighed: “</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">You know, Afghans don’t even like eating fried chicken.”</span>__</span>**</span>