[[toc]]
=Aff= 
==New Mod Cards (UMich)== 


**China****’s main focus of modernization is cyber and ASAT technology – kills deterrence**
**__Bajoria, ’09__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jayshree, staff writer – Council on Foreign Relations, “China's Military Power,” 2-4, http://www.cfr.org/publication/18459/)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">As part of this modernization agenda ...</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> networks that support them," </span>he said.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chinese ASATs lead to crisis escalation which leads to nuke war </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis, ’04</span>**</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jeffery, total BAMF, Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative at the New America Foundation (a nonprofit, post-partisan, public policy institute in Washington, DC), research affiliate with and former executive director of the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University, and member of the Editorial Advisory Board of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, July 2004. “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Conflict Scenarios” http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The Pentagon’s assessments of Chinese ASATs ... form of a mushroom cloud.”</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">29</span></span>

**Global nuclear war results**
**__Mitchell ’01__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gordon, Assoc. Prof Comm.– U Pittsburgh, </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads, ISIS Briefing, No. 6, July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">A buildup of space weapons might ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> **most destructive military conflict ever seen**</span>__**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">LOLZ THE WORLD</span>**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">JYU, 5647</span>**
==Japan Aff (Pre-Wake)== 
**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Plan:</span>**

The United States federal government should reduce to the point of elimination the United States Marine Corps presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.



**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Contention One is Asia</span>**

**The United States military presence in Okinawa is two decades outdated. The troops are strategically useless and they prevent Japan from rethinking its regional leadership role.**
**__Bandow, ’10__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Doug, senior fellow at … .org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World War II ended 65 years … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">wealthy Japan made a rethink unnecessary</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




**A more independent Japan would resolve North Korean provocation and proliferation better than America’s military presence – it would be more credible than US pressure which has empirically failed**
**__Preble, ’06__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Christopher, director of foreign … /pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The North Korean crisis may … </span>__to the regional security order.__


North Korean prolif ensures multiple scenarios for nuclear war
**__Campbell and O’Hanlon, ’06__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kurt M. Campbell, … NEW POLITICS OF NATIONAL SECURITY p. 230)</span>

__There are several reasons why <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">… weaken global nonprolif</span>eration more broadly.__



<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Furthermore, US presence is causing Chinese rapid military modernization </span></span>
**__Smith, ’10__** (Sheila A., Sr. Fellow Japan Studies … at Council of Foreign Relations
http://two--plus--two.blogspot.com/2010/06/point-of-view-sheila-smith-more-mature.html, 6/5)

<span class="underline0">The current tension between the … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">presence in Japan,</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 9pt;">” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">he said. </span>




Chinese modernization creates an overly aggressive PLA which collapses loyalty to the CCP and triggers regime collapse
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krawitz, ’03</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">(Howard, research fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies, Dec, “Modernizing China’s Military: A High-Stakes Gamble?”, Strategic Forum, No. 204)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">To understand the dilemma faced … sort of worst-case </span><span class="underline0">scenario. </span>


CCP collapse triggers a nuclear civil war and regional conflicts
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yee and Storey, ’02</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, RoutledgeCurzon, pg 5)</span>

The fourth factor contributing to … __its neighbours and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the world</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>


Chinese modernization leads to adventurism and miscalculation in Asia
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krawitz, ’03</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">(Howard, research fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies, Dec, “Modernizing China’s Military: A High-Stakes Gamble?”, Strategic Forum, No. 204)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Conversely, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">a powerful military might encourage … further controversial foreign affairs policies</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span></span>

The impact is global nuclear war
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay, ’00</span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan S., national security and intelligence correspondent, March 10, 2k, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department. </span>

Withdrawing U.S. presence is able to reverse these trends and prevent nuclear conflict
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eland, ’03</span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Ivan, Former director of defense policy studies at the Cato Institute, Policy Analysis, Is Chinese Modernization a Threat to the United States?, No. 265, p. 12-13) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Although many alarmist articles in … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">the threat it most fears.</span></span>
**The plan recalibrates the alliance and allows Japan to promote regional integration and stabilize the region**
**__Ikenberry, ’10__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John, professor of politics … /21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama</span> administration struggles … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration.</span></span></span>




**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Contention Two is the Wrath of Kan</span>**

**The DPJ’s agenda is stalled – the Okinawa issue has created a crisis in Japanese politics**
**__Allen and Sumida, ’10__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David and … -election-could-impede-futenma-progress-1.110973, 7/14)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">The poor showing</span> of Japan’s … understanding of Okinawa</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">,” Okada said. </span>



**The plan is key for Kan to regain his credibility – the status quo puts him into a no-win scenario**
**__McNeil, ’10__** (David, “Okinawa's US base … .irishtimes.com/newspaper/world/2010/0626/1224273366535.html)

<span class="underline0">There can be few prettier <span style="background: yellow;">… to promise something you can’t do</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 9pt;">.”</span>


**US pressure puts Kan in a no-win situation—giving in to the U.S. will crush the DPJ**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asahi Shimbun</span>__</span>__,__ <span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’10</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(the second most … .asahi.com/english/TKY201007150512.html) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">The deadline for a Japan-U.S. agreement … visit to Japan in November</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span></span>




Resolution of the Futenma dispute is key to effective DPJ coalition-building—that’s key to their agenda.
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kyodo News</span>__</span>__,__ <span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’10</span>__</span> (“Two small parties … .japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100716a8.html)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">The Social Democratic Party said</span></span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">… </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">the U.S. Futenma base within Okinawa</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>


A strong DPJ is key to passing climate legislation.
**__Maeda and Fujoka, ’10__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Risa and … -pass-climate-bill-yr-end-un-talks/)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">Japan will aim to pass a</span> … </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">make any changes,” Ozawa said. </span>




Domestic action on climate change is key to bolster Japanese leadership on climate – key to global action
**__Moni, ’09__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Monir Hossain, “Why Japan’s … Foreign Policy expert; May, Informaworld) </span>

<span class="underline0">Environmental ODA has been the … deal with global environmental problems</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span>



Warming leads to nuclear war and famine that kills hundreds of millions of people
**__Pfeiffer ’04__** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Dale Allen, science journalist, … /ww3/041304_climate_change_pt1.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">In October of 2003, </span><span class="underline0">the Pentagon</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> … natural gas cliff. Not pretty.</span>

**Warming leads to positive feedback by killing phytoplankton**
**__NASA Earth Observatory, ’06__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Warming Ocean … .nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=7187)</span>

Why do __warmer temperatures have a … , <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">which would produce more warming.”</span>__



**Extinction**
**__Bryant, ’03__**
<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Donald A., Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology @ Pennsylvania State University, 8-19-3 “The beauty in small things revealed” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 100, No. 17, pp. 9647-9649)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Oxygenic photosynthesis</span> accounts for nearly ...__ <span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">to be made (refs. 1 and 2; see Fig. 1).</span>

=<span style="line-height: 18px;">Neg</span>= 

==Cap K== 
The specific shell varies with the aff. Below is the standard cards we read every debate.


**The aff is wasted energy – fighting particular battles without changing the way the economy works means nothing really changes – the aff just obscures the logic of capitalism**
**__Zizek, ’99__** (Slavoj, Senior Researcher and professor at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, The Ticklish Subject, page 352-355)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The big news of today’s … </span>__<span class="style3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">that effectively runs his life.</span></span>


**Vote neg on ethics - resisting this reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility**
**__Zizek and Daly 2004__**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, __Conversations with Zizek__, page 14-16)</span>


<span style="font-size: 9pt;">For Zizek it is imperative … </span>__in an otherwise sound matrix.__


**The alternative is to withdraw from the ideology of capital. Capitalism only survives because we believe it is a truth claim.**
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> **Johnston 04**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adrian, interdisciplinary research fellow in psychoanalysis at Emory, The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Zizek and the Dynamics of Belief, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the absence of a</span> … </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">or the truth? I choose fetishism’’).</span>



==Kato K== 


**The aff’s impact claims remain trapped in First World ways of knowing “nuke war.” This allows capitalism’s nuclear violence perpetuated against the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations to continue unabated.**
**__Kato, ’93__** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Masahide, professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Hawaii, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze,” Alternatives 18:3, p. 339-360, bgm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The vigorous invasion of the logic ...</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Fourth World and Indigenous Nations almost on a daily basis.</span>
**Unfortunately, this is only the beginning – this extermination of the periphery will lead to extinction.**
**The logic that allows us to sacrifice certain parts of the population justifies the destruction of ALL parts of the population.**
**__Santos, ’03__** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra, Bad Subjects, Issue #63, April, bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West ... the world's poorest countries for four years.</span>

**The alternative is to reject the aff’s focus on short term, limited, nuclear warfare.**

**This is critical to shift our focus back to the real problem – capitalism. The aff’s strategy guarantees the continued destruction of the periphery.**
**__Kato, ’93__** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Masahide, professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Hawaii, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze,” Alternatives 18:3, p. 339-360, bgm)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Nuclear criticism flourished</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> particularly during ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> strategy and technology</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> discussed earlier.</span>




==NFU CP== 


**The United States federal government should adopt a no first use nuclear declaratory policy.**

**NFU solves the internal links to all of their advantages**
**__Johnson, ’09__** (Rebecca, editor of Disarmament Diplomacy, co-founder of Acronym Institute for Disarmament, “Security Assurances for Everyone: A new Approach to Deterring the Use of Nuclear Weapons” Disarmament Diplomacy, No. 90, Spring, http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd90/90sa.htm)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Declaring the use of nuclear weapons a crime </span>__<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">... nuclear disarmament initiatives to take hold.</span>




==Referendum CP== 


The government of Afghanistan should hold a referendum over whether or not [insert plan mandates]. The United States federal government should agree to be bound by the outcome of the referendum.

**The CP solves the case better than the aff and increases democracy**
__**Wollman, '10**__ (Neil, <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Senior Fellow, Bentley Alliance for Ethics and Social Responsibility, Bentley University, "What if the people of Afghanistan could choose?" 1/7, </span>[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/01/07-8]])

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Afghan government realizes that any downsizing ... can let the people of Afghanistan choose.</span>