[[toc]]
This page will be updated for the Greenhill Tournament next week. For now, only the names of the cases are up; each case will be posted as it is run. No extra information will be posted under the unbroken cases to prevent confusion.

Email: [[mailto:PeninsulaLD@gmail.com|PeninsulaLD@gmail.com]]

=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Health AC
"Ought to possess"--A) a state of non-possession; B) the present tense; C) eval of state of affairs in which states do or don't posess nuclear weapons
Debate--on whether possession of nukes brings more pos/neg impacts 

Ought-moral obligation; morality-->logical base for action

Nuclear weapons--instruments of attack or defense "powered by atomic...processes, [which] produce large explosions and hazardous radioactive byproducts by means of either nuclear fission or nuclear fusion." (reference.com)
Depleted uranium and plutonium--> byproducts 

Value--Morality
A) links best to res. w/ "ought"
B) states--moral ob to ppl, so have to take actions accordingly to fulfill that obligation

Standard--maximizing human welfare, done by maximizing quality of health for all

Contention 1: Nuclear weapon manufacturing harms workers and the state. Holdstock and Waterston: "There is a...civil nuclear cycle." (Douglas Holdstock, Lis Waterston. "Nuclear Weapons, a Continuing Threat to Health" in //The Lancet//. by Elsevier Limited. Volume 355, pg 1545, April 29, 2000)

Sub A) The uranium mining harms miners, and others around them.
Holdstock and Waterston 2: "Uranium is mined...general population." (Douglas Holdstock, Lis Waterston. "Nuclear Weapons, a Continuing Threat to Health" in //The Lancet//. by Elsevier Limited. Volume 355, pg 1545, April 29, 2000)
even miners who do not live under nuclear states are affected

Little A) Uranium mining has been known to cause fatal diseases in miners.
A study of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) showed multiple reasons for death among uranium miners. Residents who lived around uranium mills and mines also were affected.
(National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. "Uranium (Miners) (1)". [[http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/pgms/worknotify/uranium.html]]. under "
NIOSH Uranium Miners' Health Study")


Sub B) obtaining plutonium has major health risks

Holdstock and Waterston 3: "Almost all the...and haematopoietic neoplasms." (Douglas Holdstock, Lis Waterston. "Nuclear Weapons, a Continuing Threat to Health" in //The Lancet//. by Elsevier Limited. Volume 355, pg 1545, April 29, 2000)

OBTAINING PLUTONIUM=HARMFUL


Sub C) Workers in nuclear weapon manufacturing are also affected.

Tiwari 1: "Since the dawn... 'negative' exposure readings" (Jaya Tiwari. "Victory for Nuclear Weapons Workers: Energy Employee Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000". [[http://action.psr.org/documents/brief_2001.pdf]])


Frank: "Doctors for the nonprofit...link to radiation."

(


==Negative== 
(Don't) Lean on Me NC

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">If "ought is defined as "moral obligation"--> Aff must show moral obligation is strong btw actor performing the obligation to the person/people/actor entitled to it, show obligation is worth keeping, and liken the possibility that it will be followed through.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Walter Sinott-Armstrong: "The rule 'Keep...solemnity while promising." (Walter Sinnott-Armstrong. "How Strong is This Obligation? An Argument for Consequentialism for Concomitant Variation". from Oxford Journals, pgs 438-439)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Moral obligation has to be strong to have meaning in the round. No such thing as a weak moral obligation, but strong obligation = obligation that has a high possibility of being followed through. Anything less isnt a stable obligation, thus no obligation</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;">Sinott-Armstrong 2 “**__since the__** __**strength...****to break promises.”**__ (Walter Sinnott-Armstrong. "How Strong is This Obligation? An Argument for Consequentialism for Concomitant Variation". from Oxford Journals, pgs 440-441) </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Sinott-Armstrong 3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">“</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">A moral theory ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">those moral obligations.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">” (Walter Sinnott-Armstrong. "How Strong is This Obligation? An Argument for Consequentialism for Concomitant Variation". from Oxford Journals, pgs 440-442)</span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Value = Morality.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">My standard is maximizing national security. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">John Mearsheimer</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">furthers**: “**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">survival is the primary goal of great powers</span>__**__.__** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 7pt; line-height: 115%;">Specifically, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-underline: thick; textunderline: thick;">states seek to maintain their territorial integrity and the autonomy of their domestic political order. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">States can and do pursue other goals</span>__, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 7pt; line-height: 115%;">of course</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">but security is their most important objective</span>__**__.”__** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">My sole contention is that states ought possess nuclear weapons for self defense. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Sub A) Nukes deter biological and chemical weapons. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Joseph and Reichart explain, “__The primary purpose ...the Gulf War."__** (Robert G. Joseph and John F. Reichart. “The Case for Nuclear Deterrence Today.” Orbis, 00304387, Winter 1998, Vol. 42, Issue 1.)</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Joseph and Reichart 2 furthers, “__Iraqui leaders attribute ... severe and effective.’__**(Robert G. Joseph and John F. Reichart. “The Case for Nuclear Deterrence Today.” Orbis, 00304387, Winter 1998, Vol. 42, Issue 1.)</span>
(
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]