[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
[[mailto:danserdancer@gmail.com|danserdancer@gmail.com]]
==Caucus & KCKCC== 

===Stability=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A large footprint structurally fails – Afghanistan is too geographically diverse and an enemy-focused approach is key.</span>**
Michael A. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen</span></span> - Writer on politics and foreign affairs. Former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation – Spring <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">(Dissent Magazine, University of Pennsylvania Press, “No-Win Policy for Afghanistan” Volume 57, Issue 2, pg 5)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the end, the fundamental.... an example to other nations. </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – props up an ineffective central government at the cost of stability</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span class="Author-Date">10</span></span>** (Christopher A., director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, "Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?" May 21, Cato Institute, originally published on The Economist Online, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question is not ....</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">challenges elsewhere in the world</span>.**</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Akhtar, 10</span>**-</span> professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, poop Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1**</span>**)**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">If it is a war ...</span>__ __moment, thus destabilizing the state.__**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt, 9</span>**- //<span style="font-style: normal;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span>)**

||   ||
||   ||
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed...situation. So should we all.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IMPACT IS ANARCHY- TRY OR DIE</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Castonguay 2010 </span></span>(David, studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, “In Praise of Warlords”, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]], DA: 9/15/2010//JLENART)//**</span>
**//<span style="margin-right: 0.3in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Engaging </span>__local groups made up...____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> a greater chance of success</span>.__ </span>//**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">//PLAN’S DECENTRALIZATION REMAINS CRITICAL TO STABILITY//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MUKHOPADHYAY 9</span> **(Dipali, doctoral candidate at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and a Jennings Randolph Dissertation Scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace. She has received doctoral fellowships from Harvard Law School and the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program at the U.S. Department of Education. Undergraduate studies at Yale in the Political Science Department, and former junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment’s Nonproliferation Program – August, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Middle East Program. Number 101 http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/warlords_as_bureaucrats.pdf)**//
//**Counterterrorism and state building coexist....<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of state (re)formation in Afghanistan.</span>**//


===Hegemony=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WE WILL NOT BE LEAVING IN 2011 BUT THE DEADLINE ITSELF KILLS OUR CREDIBILITY</span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ROGIN 10</span> **(Josh, staff writer for Foreign Policy, covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly, also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/]]<span style="color: black;"> petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights</span>)**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When General David Petraeus testifies....</span><span class="Underline"> exactly what they've been doing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>**//


//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CURRENT EFFORTS NOT WORKING, WE’RE LOSING THE WAR NOW</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP 9/9/10</span> **(September 9, “US Losing War in Afghanistan: Taliban Leader”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_afp/afghanistanreligionislameidtaliban]]</span>) KA**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Put all your strength and planning... has been underground since then.</span>**//
[[#OLE_LINK10]]
//**First is fatigue**//
//**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Author-Date">Kretkowski, 10</span> –[assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs] (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html). </span>**//

//**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">I've taken occasional dips back into... power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).</span>**//
[[#OLE_LINK12]]
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norris and Sweet 10</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- Executive Director of Enough and Former Chief of Political Affairs for the UN Mission in Nepal, Research Assistant @ American Progress (John and Andrew, “Less Is More,” Jun 8th, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/less_is_more.html)</span></span>**//
//**Instead, Gates maintains, we need... diplomacy abroad would be unwise.**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CROSS BORDER SANCTUARIES, GOVERNMENT CORRUPTION, TENSIONS WITHIN THE AFGHAN ARMY AND THE UTTER FAILURE OF POPULATION PROTECTION MAKES FAILURE INEVITABLE</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DORRONSORO 10</span> **(Gilles, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, <span class="Underline">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863</span>)**//
//**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at...the need for a negotiated settlement. </span></span>**//
[[#OLE_LINK14]]
//**<span class="Author-Date">Boyle, 10</span> - Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**” **http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)**//


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Finally, this <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10pt;">emphasis on a fused ....response might be more appropriate.</span></span></span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. hegemony prevents nuclear wars in every corner of earth- no alternative</span>//
**//Robert <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span></span>, he’s qualified, July 19, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007.</span></span> “End of Dreams, Return of History,”//**
**//http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html//**
**//<span class="ReallyfuckingsmallChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">By the same token, foreign... will provide an easier path</span></span>.//**


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
[[#OLE_LINK18]]
**//<span class="Author-Date">Salam, 9</span>- previously an associate editor at// The Atlantic//, a producer for NBC News, a junior editor and editorial researcher at// The New York Times//, a research associate at the Council on Foreign Relations, and a reporter-researcher at// The New Republic// (9/17/09, Reihan, “Don’t Short the Surge,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/dont_short_the_surge_12856)**
**. The U.S. has strengths that...personnel dedicated to logistical support.**

===**Solvency**=== 
[[#OLE_LINK40]][[#OLE_LINK26]][[#OLE_LINK11]][[#OLE_LINK20]]
**<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;"><span class="cite">Long, Assistant Professor of International and Public Affairs at Columbia School of Internation and Public Affairs, 9 (Austin, October 13, </span>[[http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/10/13/what_a_ct_mission_in_afghanistan_would_actually_look_like]], “What a CT Mission in Afghanistan Would Actually Look Like,” Foreign Policy, DA: 7/14/10, JPL. Previous associate political scientist for the RAND Corporation, served in Iraq as an analyst and advisor to the Multinational Force Iraq and the U.S. military. Previous consultant to MIT Lincoln Laboratory on studies of technology and urban operations in counterinsurgency. Author of Deterrence - From Cold War to Long War: Lessons from Six Decades of RAND Research and On "Other War": Lessons from Five Decades of RAND Counterinsurgency Research. Co-founder of the Working Group on Insurgency and Irregular Warfare at the MIT Center for International Studies, member in the RAND Counterinsurgency Board of Experts. Previously taught international security at Clark University. PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).)</span>**
**Both men have considerable stature...e subject of my next post**
[[#OLE_LINK21]]
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski 2010</span></span>**
**(Paul D., consultant and journalist, writing credits: Mother Jones, Wired, Business For Diplomatic Action and SFGate.com. Beacon,Beacon: “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere” January 7, 2010**
**[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]] date accessed 8/5/2010**
**<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Focusing on</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">counterterror-only</span>...</span>sway those in the middle.**
[[#OLE_LINK41]]

==**Glenbrooks**== 

===**Plan**=== 
Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify.

===Iran=== 
The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq
Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) </span>**

**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The United States</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> apparently </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">....the consequences would be unacceptable.</span>**


US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable. 
Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Iranians signaled last week</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">....they can wait no longer.</span>__**


And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable 
Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran’s problem becomes clear when</span>__....interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.__**

Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran 
Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) </span>**

**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">As long as the problem</span>.....it is doing just this.__**

Iran Nuclear Talks Will Happen December 5th, US dealings in Iraq is the lynchpin to successful talks 
AFP 11/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Assad Abboud, 11/14/10, " Foreign influence behind Iraq power-sharing pact: analysts ", [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i9iv67og5U5GGc5vyOlyt15s2-gg?docId=CNG.abcbb510a5c046dbf43a74a8c92b43c3.161]])</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD — </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraq's power-sharing deal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">......in the March 7 polls.</span></span>**

US is planning a hardline approach to negotiations with Iran. They will fail currently.
NY Times – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (DAVID E. SANGER, Writer, “Obama Set to Offer Stricter Nuclear Deal to Iran”, October 27, 2010, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/28/world/middleeast/28iran.html]]) </span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.......Iran’s program as his “No. 1 job.”</span></span>**

Iran’s nuclear ambitions are not peaceful. Allowing them to continue will result in global proliferation
Landau – Dec. ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Emily B. Landau is the director of the Arms Control and Regional Security program at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies (INSS). She teaches nuclear arms control at Tel Aviv University and the University of Haifa, Israel, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward. Position: Tough bargaining tactics”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), [[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]) </span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">When considering how to improve international.....that he “merely” expressed his wish list.4</span></span>**

Accidents and Nuclear War 
Sturm 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ Frankie, July, Nuclear Weapons: A New Paradigm for the 21st Century, Truman National Security Project]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accidents happen, but the price of a nuclear accident</span>__.....adds extra gravity to the threat.__**


Military strikes against Iran are not an option. Only dealing with the 3 pillar issues of Iranian security can result in successful easing of tensions and desires for a nuclear Iran. The plan ensures these are met by eliminating the perceived security threats that the US poses and elevating and recognizing Iran as a critical leader by ceding to their role in Iraq.
Kibaroglu – Dec. ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mustafa Kibaroglu teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. He is also the Academic Advisor of NATO Centre of Excellence Defence against Terrorism in Ankara, Turkey, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward Position: Resuscitate the nuclear swap deal”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), [[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]) CJC</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Regarding the military option, the most important questions....they have accumulated thus far cannot be destroyed.</span>**


===**Water**=== 
The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—Maliki Has One Month to Form and Government and a Full Cabinet But It Won’t Last That Long 
Arraf 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html)</span>**
<span style="color: black;">ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Maliki......have no commitment to it</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span>**

A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria
BBC 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest developments in the Iraqi arena</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">......the Syrian and Iraqi people</span>.__**


Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible
al-Ansary and Chaudry 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD (Reuters) -</span>**__Frequent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">dust storms and</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.....only enough for our daily food," the farmer said.</span>**


Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict
al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]])</span>**
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iraqis are calling on their incoming government.....will become a time bomb in terms of water rights</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>**


Water wars unleash 60,000 nukes 
Weiner ’90**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Pulitzer Prize winning author (Jonathan, “The Next One Hundred Years”, p. 270)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we do not destroy ourselves with the</span><span class="UnderliningChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.....the world has stockpiled</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since Trinity.</span>**


US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq. 
Jansen 11/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though still largely muddled, Iraq stands ready to embrace post-US era", 11/3/10, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-11/04/c_13589881.htm]]) </span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious politics and</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.....enough seats to form a new government though.</span> </span>**

==Omaha Westside== 
===Plan=== 
Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq. We will clarify.

===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">The withdrawal deadline will be extended – we’ve invested too much in the Iraq to go cold turkey</span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Karon 1/6</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Tony Karon – reporter for Time magazine, 6 January 2011, “Iraq: With al-Sadr Back In, Is U.S. on Way Out?,” Time, [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2041026,00.html]]) </span>
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The end of 2011 is.....</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TIME video on two veterans returning to Iraq.)</span>**

===**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran</span>**=== 

**The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq** 

Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC </span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The United States</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> apparently </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">has.....</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">permit Israel to strike, as the consequences would be unacceptable.</span>

US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable.  

Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Iranians signaled last week that they might not....</span>****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">might decide they can wait no longer.</span>__**


<span class="Underline">**And, US-Iran war is on the** **brink now. Previous war rhetoric should be ignored, we must evaluate this instance in a vacuum.** </span>

Friedman 10 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (10 American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor (George Friedman; “Rethinking American Options on Iran”; August 31, 2010; [[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100830_rethinking_american_options_iranutm_source=GWeekly&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=100831&utm_content=readmore&elq=81e60a854cde48e88faf0a57b328aa09]]) CJC\) </span>**
**<span class="Underline">Public <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">discussion of potential attacks...</span></span>**<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="Underline">displays neither confirm nor deny that possibility.</span> </span>


**And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable – this closes the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, skyrocketing oil prices and killing the world economy** 

Friedman – 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">U.S. and Iranian Options </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iran’s problem becomes clear when we consider.....</span>**__Iranian naval interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, Rising oil prices destroy the economy </span>

Whipple 7/14/2010**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Tom, one of the most highly respected analysts of peak oil issues in the United States. Retired 30-year CIA analyst who has been following the peak oil story since 1999, Editor of the daily Peak Oil News and the weekly Peak Oil Review, The Peak Oil Crisis: A Mid-Year Review, FNCP.com, http://www.fcnp.com/commentary/national/6896-the-peak-oil-crisis-a-mid-year-review.html) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Interestingly, </span>__six in ten surveyed by Pew believe.....__**<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">resources are finite, few understand the proximity of the crisis. </span>**</span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Broward 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">((Member of Triond) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/ AD: 7-7-09 )ET</span>**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Now its time to look at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the consequences.....i</span></span></span>**<span style="display: inline !important;">__<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">mportant issue facing us </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in the 21st century.</span></span>__ </span>


**Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran – plan forces US to redefine issue away from nuclear program** 

Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">As long as the problem of Iran is.....</span>__**<span style="display: inline !important;"> __reason to do this. Indeed, it is doing just this.__ </span>


**US focus on the nuclear issue ensures current talks about Iraq fail. Iran is committed and wants to negotiate – only redefinition of US view of Iran ensures success** 

**STRATFOR – 1O** <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “Ahmadinejad Reaches Out to Washington”; September 23, 2010, [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/geopolitical_diary/20100922_ahmadinejad_reaches_out_washington]]) CJC </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While in New York for the United Nations General Assembly, </span>__Iranian....__<span style="display: inline !important;">__Iran will be able to negotiate with one voice.__ </span>


**Withdrawal from Iraq solves and avoids conflict. The US must engage Iran and push for a relationship, accepting their nuclear weapons and giving them influence in Iraq. This can only be done with a withdraw of US troops from Iraq.** 

**Friedman – 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Consider the American interest</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. First</span>__, it must maintain the flow of oil......__<span style="display: inline !important;">__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Turkey eventually would eliminate Iranian influence in Iraq.</span>__ </span>


**Current US views mean that Iran will reject their proposal. The existence of threats and sanctions in the negotiations ruins them.** 

**STRATFOR – 1O**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (STRATFOR, global intelligence company, STRATFOR has been cited by media such as CNN, Bloomberg, the Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times and the BBC as an authority on strategic and tactical intelligence issues. Barron's once referred to it as "The Shadow CIA"., “</span><span class="Underline">Iran: Negotiation With Threats, Sanctions Is Useless”, **September** 24, 2010, [[http://www.stratfor.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/sitrep/20100924_iran_negotiation_threats_sanctions_are_useless]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span> CJC</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Iran believes in diplomacy, but imposing....</span></span>law, negotiations cannot produce any result, he stated.

===<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Water</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Sadr’s return to Iraq threatens government stability – only through withdrawal can al-Maliki ensure Sadr’s support and sustain necessary coalition building </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bazzi 1/6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Mohamad Bazzi – Adjunct Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies for Council on Foreign Relations, 6 January 2011, “What Sadr's Return Means for Iraq,” Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23737/what_sadrs_return_means_for_iraq.html?cid=rss-fullfeed-what_sadr_s_return_means_for_i-010611&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+cfr_main+(CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed))</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Muqtada al-</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Sadr</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one of the most popular Shiite clerics....</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">becoming an even more formidable power broker in Iraq.</span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria </span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">**BBC 10** (British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest developments in the Iraqi arena and the exerted..</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">relations binding the Syrian and Iraqi people</span>.__</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible </span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BAGHDAD (Reuters) -</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">__Frequent <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">dust storms and scarce rains...</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">it this year, only enough for our daily food," the farmer said.</span>__</span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict </span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]]) </span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Iraqis are calling on their incoming government**.....</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**__region will become a time bomb in terms of water rights__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span></span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Conflict between Iraq, Syria, and Turkey over water is coming now. </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Langer – 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew Langer is a 2009 graduate of Johns Hopkins University, where he majored in International Studies and concentrated in International Security, “Hydro Wars The Struggle for Water and Survival in the Euphrates-Tigris River Basin”, 2009,</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.helvidius.org/files/2009/2009_Langer.pdf]]</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CJC </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1995, World Bank Vice President Ismail Serageldin....</span></span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">militaristic balancing that could be exhibited by Syria and Iraq.</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, MIDDLE EAST WAR WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL NUCLEAR CONFLAGRATION</span></span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach</span></span>**, 20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[http://wagingpeace.org/articles%20/0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm|http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]] </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction....</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">East conflict could trigger a world conflagration."</span>__</span>


<span class="underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sadr’s return has intensified anti-American sentiment. Only withdrawal will stabilize government </span></span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mercier, 01/07</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">/</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11 (Gilbert, “Iraq: Al-Sadr Calls On Iraqis To “resist The Occupiers,” News Junkie Post**, [[http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/06/iraq-al-sadrs-return-will-consolidate-irans-influence/]])** </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Saturday in Najaf, cleric Al**-**</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Sadr</span>** **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">called</span>** **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">the</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span>tates....</span>**</span></span>__<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">toppling of Saddam Hussein is ultimately benefiting Iran.</span></span>__

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Borders=== 
**The affirmative’s geopolitical gaze creates a Western imperial vantage point that portrays states as individuals and accepts violence and war as part of the “natural struggle” — this leads to self-fulfilling prophecies and prevents affirmative solvency**
**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Professor at the University of Minnesota and a founding scholar of critical geopolitics, Critical Geopolitics: The Politics of Writing Global Space) 

__The great irony of the geopolitical gaze__<span style="font: 8.0px Georgia;"> __….__</span> __But contested that order would be.__


**Borders are the empirical cause of conflicts – they make escalation likely and war inevitable – that turns the aff**
**Starr ‘6** (Harvey, Professor in International Affairs and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University ofSouth Carolina. He specializes in international relations theory and method, international conflict, and geopolitics. He is co-author of World Politics: The Menu for Choice, 8th edition. (2006), “International Borders: What They Are, What They Mean, and Why We Should Care”) http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1starr.htm 

__Borders are not simply facilitating…success appears to be low.__


**The alternative is a critique of the geopolitical map**
**Imperialism maintains hegemonic power through domination of alternate narratives, especially in the sphere of international relations – the alternative isolates the flaws in the status quo and opens space for new discourses**
**Shapiro 97**** (Michael J., Political Science at the University of Hawai<span style="font: 8.0px Times;">’i at Mānoa ; </span><span style="font: 11.0px Georgia;">__Violent Cartographies: Mapping Cultures of War__</span>; 1997; P. 150-151) JPW
__In order to oppose war and promote…__<span style="font: 11.0px Georgia;">__regulative norms.__</span>





====E-mail Rana for cites and strats - [[mailto:ranaaliani@gmail.com|ranaaliani@gmail.com]]==== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]