<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[toc]]
</span>
















=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**September-October**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Trifecta AC</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V – Morality</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Respect for autonomy is not just a rational requirement, it is the rational requirement.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], //Self to Self// (2006), 44.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The value of persons… disregard for persons.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">S – respecting the inviolability of innocent persons</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Negative duties are absolute, even on an international scale.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas Pogge [Director of the Global Justice Program and Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University], “Cosmopolitanism,” //A Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy// (Second Edition, Vol. 1 – 2007), edited by Goodin, Pettit, and Pogge, 328.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"As can be learned… this agent’s conduct."</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention One: Nuclear War</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Subpoint A: Even if nuclear weapons won’t be used, their possession is immoral.</span><span style="line-height: 20px;">Possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C.A.J. Coady, [Professor of Philosophy, University of Melbourne], “Deterrent Intentions Revisited,” “Ethics” 99:1 (Oct. 1998), 98-108, at 101-102.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"McMahan’s case is… they are immoral."</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Even if there is no harm to people in the status quo, nuclear weapons harm future generations.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">MATTHEW RENDALL [Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of Nottingham] “Nuclear Weapons and Intergenerational Exploitation,” Security Studies 16, no. 4 (October–December 2007): 525–554</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Notably, nuclear deterrence… own miserable hides.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Subpoint B: The possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons because it increases the already unacceptable risk of catastrophe. </span><span style="line-height: 20px;">A limited nuclear war would result in global cooling.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Editors of Scientific American, Summary of Robock and Toon’s “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering,” Scientific American (January 2010), 74.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Nuclear bombs dropped… models are correct."</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Risk of nuclear deterrence failure high.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Martin E. Hellman [Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, Stanford; co-inventor of public key cryptography] “The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon. Fork in the Roads: Choosing the Future for Engineers. ” THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI SPRING 2008, 20-21. JMN</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"While much less… would find accepetable."</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention Two is the Stability-Instability Paradox</span>
<span style="line-height: 20px;">In a nuclear-armed world, states are struck in the stability-instability paradox, which makes war and escalation inevitable.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Michael Krepon [Founder, Stimson Center – Nonpartisan Global Security Think Tank], “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control in South Asia” (May 2003), 18-19</span>
"<span style="line-height: 20px;">The twining of limited… of its capabilities."</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This trend is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert Rauchhaus [Assistant Professor of International Relations and Methodology, UC Berkeley], “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach” presented at the 2007 annual meeting of the American Political Science Association. p19</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"As the results… the conflict scale."</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The impact is conventional war.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Zlad Obermeyer (research scientist), Christopher Murray (institute director), Emmanuela Gakidou (associate professor). “Fifty years of violent war deaths from Vietnam to Bosnia: analysis of data from the world health survey programme.” June 19, 2008.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Affirming would increase stability across the board.</span>
<span style="color: #010101; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">International Panel on Fissile Materials [independent group of arms-control and nonproliferation experts from both nuclear weapon and non-nuclear weapon states], Appendix A to //Global Fissile Material Report// (2009).</span>
<span style="color: #010101; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"In 1984, disarmament… weapon-free world"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">By contrast, a nuclear-armed world will face exponential rises in conflict because proliferation begets proliferation.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 297.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The findings here… powers slowly rises."</span>

<span style="line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">Stock AC</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V - M</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ethical Reasoning is directed to satisfy all those who are affected.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Peter Singer “Practical Ethics” pp. 13-14. "The universal aspect... for remaining utilitarians"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">S - Maximizing Human Life</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 1: Accidental Launch</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, nuclear states receive false alarms frequently.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Linn I. Sennott [Professor of Mathematics, Illinois State University, Normal, Illinois. Dr. Sennott is a member of the Mathematical Association of America, the Operations Research Society of America, and the Association for Women in Mathematics], “Overlapping False Alarms: Reason for Concern?” “Foundation for Global Community” (2001). </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The brief history... a significant possibility".</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The U.S. and Russia are forced to make a decision whether a nuclear attack is valid and whether to retaliate in a short amount of time.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert S. McNamara [Robert Strange McNamara (June 9, 1916 – July 6, 2009)[4] was an American business executive and the eighth Secretary of Defense, serving under Presidents John F. Kennedyand Lyndon B. Johnson from 1961 to 1968. Following that he served as President of theWorld Bank from 1968 until 1981. McNamara was responsible for the institution of systems analysis in public policy, which developed into the discipline known today as policy analysis], "Apocalypse Soon" Foreign Policy, May/June 2005. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The whole situation... president's constant companion"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Russia has less than four minutes to decide.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A.G. Arbatov et al [Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations] "De-Alerting Russian and US nuclear weapons: A path to reducing nuclear dangers" http://www.ieer.org/russian/pubs/dlrtbk-e.html. "Mutual mistrust and... period of time"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, domestic political unrest by emerging nuclear powers increases the likelihood of an accidental launch by encouraging unsafe transportation, exercise, or testing operations.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Scott Sagan [Scott Sagan, Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of the Center for International Security at Stanford University, and ], "The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate Renewed" Chapter 2 More Will Be Worse. W.W. Norton & Company. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The fifth reason... of the program"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">An Accidental launch would cause a retaliatory response resulting in billions of casualties.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lachlan Forrow, et al [Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard], "Accidental Nuclear War -- A Post-Cold War Assessment" The New England Journal of Medicine. Vol. 338:1326-1332" April 30, 1998. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Public health professionals... indirect casualties worldwide"</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 2: Nuclear Terrorism</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, the theft of nuclear fissile material by terrorists is likely.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Travis Sharp and Erica Poff [The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation], "Understanding and Preventing Nuclear Terrorism" (Dec 3, 2008) </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"In his 2008... South African government"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, the smuggling of nuclear weapons to non-state actors is likely. AQ Khan in Pakistan proves.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Charles D. Ferguson and William C. Potter [The Center for Nonproliferation Studies], "The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism" </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"In Pakistan... hands of terrorists"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, if third world countries get access to weapons the likelihood of transferring nuclear weapons to terrorists is high.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stephen Peter Rosen [Harvard College Professor and Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University. In addition to his academic work, Rosen was also Master of Harvard College's Winthrop House.], "After Proliferation: What to do if more states go nuclear" Council on Foreign Relations. Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 5 (Sep. - Oct., 2006), pp. 9-14. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"One of the... as to punish it"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Graham Allison, the leading expert on nuclear terrorism, describes a conservative estimate of a single nuclear terrorist attack.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Graham Allison 2007 [Director of Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs], “How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States?” Council on Foreign Relations Online Debate, April 17, 2007. Accessed April 16, 2010. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Let's run a... by 7.5 percent"</span>





==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Self Defense NC**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">States are not moral actors, so the “ought” in the resolution is non-moral.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lloyd P. Gerson [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Toronto] “THE MORALITY OF NATIONS: AN ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH”<span style="color: black;">ARISTOTLE’S POLITICS TODAY. 2007. </span>P84. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“another way to look….know that it won.”</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It is permissible for states to act in self-defense.</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">John J. Mearsheimer [R Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science, The University of Chicago.] “Back to the Future: Instability in Europe after the Cold War” International Security, Vol. 15, No. 1 (Summer, 1990), pp. 5-56. </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“conflict is common… expense of rivals.”</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The standard is **self-defense**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">It is permissible to possess nuclear weapons because states may have legitimate, prudential reasons to want them. </span>Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 296-297. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Since August 9, 1945, no…. Matthew Fuhrmann (2009, this issue).”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**De-Alert/Rload CP**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I. Text: States ought to de-alert their missiles by removing them off hair-trigger alert and remove the Launch on Warning (LOW) policy and establish a Retaliatory Launch Only After Detonation (RLOAD) policy.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">RLOAD solves false warning.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Phillips and Starr [<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">Alan Phillips is a retired physicist and physician who did radar research for the British army during World War II.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">He lives in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. Steven Starr, who trained in nuclear engineering, works as a medical technologist in Columbia, Missouri.], “Replace Launch on Warning Policy” "It is not... goes to zero"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">De-alerting solves gaps in warning satellites, breakdown of systems, perceived vulnerability of command systems, and growing reliance on launch on warning policy.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas H. Karas “De-Alerting and De-activating strategic Nuclear Weapons” Sandias Report. (April 2001) "The continuous ability... of those systems"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">De-alerting solves technical faults and failures, control system errors, miscalculation, and unauthorized use.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Arbatov et al [Institute of Internatioanl Economy and Foreign Relations Russian Academy of Sciences], "De-Alerting Russian and US Nuclear Weapons: A parth to reducing nuclear dangers" "The high alert... the nuclear weapons"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**CTBT CP**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I. Text: States ought to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. (CTBT)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CTBT will solve for testing accidents and explosions.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thomas Graham [Former General Counsel and Acting Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Special Representative of the President for Arms Control, Non-Proliferation, and Disarmament (1994 through 1997)], "Nuclear Testing and Proliferation -- An Inextricable Connection" Disarmament Diplomacy. Issue No. 91, Summer 2009. "A decade has lapsed... Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)".</span>

=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**November-December**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deont AC</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ought” denotes a moral obligation, so I value morality. Every agent must act for reasons, and this generates moral obligations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 20. “At this point… Act for reasons.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We have an obligation to treat individuals as ends-in-themselves.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 20. “If your happiness… the person himself.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">the standard is respecting the inviolability of innocent persons</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 1 is that addicts are not morally responsible.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First are the requirements for moral responsibility.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Susan Wolf [A moral philosopher and philosopher of action who is currently the Edna J. Koury Professor of Philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Science]“Responsibility, Character, and the Emotions” New Essays in Moral Psychology. Cambridge University Press. FD “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As Frankfurt, Watson…(or improve) ourselves.”</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, drug addiction is a disease that addicts cannot control.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Alan Leshner [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chief Executive Officer at the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Executive Publisher</span>] “Addiction Is a Brain Disease” Issues in Science and Technology, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csam-asam.org/pdf/misc/brain_disease.pdf]]</span> “We now know in… structure and function.”</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, the steps towards drug addiction are not acts of free will.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Remi J. Cadoret, MD; Ed Troughton; Thomas W. O'Gorman, MS; Ellen Heywood, MA. An Adoption Study of Genetic and Environmental Factors in Drug Abuse. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1986;43(12):1131-1136. “In a sample of 242…. increased drug abuse” Contention 2 is that Needle Exchange Programs (NEPs) will prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Injection drug use is the biggest cause of new HIV diagnoses.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov [Strathdee: Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov: Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.], "The effectiveness of needle exchange programs:A review of the science and policy" AIDScience Vol. 1, No. 16, (Dec 2001) aidscience.org/Articles/aidscience013.asp#37. FD “From the public health… epidemic takes hold.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Decriminalization in conjunction with needle exchange measures drastically decreased HIV/AIDS rates in Portugal.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">GLENN GREENWALD [Constitutional and Civil Rights Litigator] “Drug DECRIMINALIZATION IN PORTUGAL: Lessons for Creating Fair and Successful Drug Policies” CATO 2009. “</span>Since 2004, general infection… people in treatment.”</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Susan F. Hurley et al [Susan F. Hurley received a Ph.D., Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Monash University]. "Effectiveness of Needle-Exchange Programmes for Prevention of HIV Infection" www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/misc/effectiveness_of_neps_for_preven.htm “__We found that in…__ of change of seroprevalence.”</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">HIV/AIDS Causes global pandemics.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laurie Garrett, Staff Writer</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> AIDS AT 20 / An Evolving Epidemic / Scientists fear AIDS' future</span>** //Newsday - May 31, 2001//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Today, with the AIDS epidemic… <span class="CardsFont12pt">DNA to cause disease.</span>”</span></span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The impact is extinction.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">ZIMMERMAN 1996 (Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132) “</span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Then came AIDS… is the virus</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">”</span></span>


Deont AC v.2

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Deont AC cites </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Ought- Moral obligation </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Morality is based on the idea of reasons we can share. Velleman: </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], //Self to Self// (2006), 20. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“At this point…act for reasons.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">We have a moral obligation to treat individuals as ends in themselves. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Velleman 2: </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“If your happiness…the person himself.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">S- Respecting persons as ends in themselves </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">If someone is not morally responsible for an action, then it is unjust to punish them. Anscombe </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span> Elizabeth Anscombe [Professor of Philosophy, Cambridge], Modern Moral Philosophy, Ethics ed. by Judith J. Thomson and Gerald Dworkin (New York, 1968) pp. 186-210. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“Returning to my…circumstances be just.” </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention 1: Addicts are not morally responsible. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Wolf explains the requirements for moral responsibility. Susan Wolf [A moral philosopher and philosopher of action who is currently the Edna J. Koury Professor of Philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Science]“Responsibility, Character, and the Emotions” New Essays in Moral Psychology. Cambridge University Press. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“As Frankfurt, Watson…or improve ourselves.” </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Drug addiction is a disease that addicts cannot control. Leshner: </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“We now know…structure and function.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in;">The steps towards drug addiction are not acts of free will. UN Nations Office on Drugs and Crime: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in;">United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, From coercion to cohesion, UN, October 2009. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“New scientific findings…and psychologically vulnerable.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 6pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Drug addiction itself is not an act of free will. Remi J. Cadoret, MD; Ed Troughton; Thomas W. O'Gorman, MS; Ellen Heywood, MA. An Adoption Study of Genetic and Environmental Factors in Drug Abuse. //Arch Gen Psychiatry.// 1986;43(12):1131-1136. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“In a sample…increased drug abuse.” </span>

Contention 2 is that Needle Exchange Programs (NEPs) help restore addicts’ capacity for self-correction and treat persons as ends-in-themselves.

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users (IDUs) are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. </span>

<span style="color: black;">David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1 </span>
<span style="color: black;">“Injecting drug users…in HIV prevention” </span>
**Injection drug use is the biggest cause of new HIV diagnoses.** Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov [Strathdee: Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov: Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.], "The effectiveness of needle exchange programs:A review of the science and policy" AIDScience Vol. 1, No. 16, (Dec 2001) aidscience.org/Articles/aidscience013.asp#37.
“From the pulic…epidemic takes hold.”
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">An overwhelming number of studies vouch for the efficacy of NEPs. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">5 Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The above findings…has been fulfilled.” </span>

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase. </span>

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left;">HIV/AIDs causes global pandemics. <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span> **<span style="font-weight: normal;">AIDS AT 20 / An Evolving Epidemic / Scientists fear AIDS' future</span>** **//Newsday - May 31, 2001//** **Laurie Garrett, Staff Writer** </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“Today with the…to cause disease.” </span>


Crack Babies AFf

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Ought- moral obligation </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">State has an obligation to protect citizens from harm </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Cummiskey </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“we must not…to save many” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Body count is too simplistic. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Peter Singer, “Why We Must Ration Health Care,” NY Times 2009. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“As a first…value of individuals” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">We should adjust for quality of life years based on innocence </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">1. It is better to save an innocent person than a criminal </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">2. We can make ordinary moral judgments based on innocence and guilt </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">3. Ignoring moral innocence fails to account for desert </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">S- minimizing the loss of innocent life years </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Babies born to drug abusers are subject to many health risk. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Coleman, Elizabeth E., and Monica K. Miller. "ASSESSING LEGAL RESPONSES TO PRENATAL DRUG USE: CAN THERAPEUTIC RESPONSES PRODUCE MORE POSITIVE OUTCOMES THAN PUNITIVE RESPONSES?" //Cleveland State University Journal of Law and Health// (2007). Print. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“United States Department…drugs while pregnant” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">This causes many harms to the fetus. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Coleman, Elizabeth E., and Monica K. Miller. "ASSESSING LEGAL RESPONSES TO PRENATAL DRUG USE: CAN THERAPEUTIC RESPONSES PRODUCE MORE POSITIVE OUTCOMES THAN PUNITIVE RESPONSES?" //Cleveland State University Journal of Law and Health// (2007). Print. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“The child of a…per 1000 births” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, pregnant drug abusers are deterred from seeking treatment. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Johnsen, D. (1992). Shared interests: Promoting healthy births without sacrifi cing women’s liberty. //Hastings Law Journal, 43,// 569- 614. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“During the last…the woman’s death” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The status quo deters treatment </span>
Martha A. Jessup and Janice C. Humphreys – 2003. “Extrinsic barriers to substance abuse treatment among pregnant drug dependent women.” //Journal of Drug Issues.// 33: 2. Health Module.
“In the psychosocial…23-year-old heroin user).”

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Pregnant women who are incarcerated suffer adverse consequences to themselves and the fetus. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Coleman, Elizabeth E., and Monica K. Miller. "ASSESSING LEGAL RESPONSES TO PRENATAL DRUG USE: CAN THERAPEUTIC RESPONSES PRODUCE MORE POSITIVE OUTCOMES THAN PUNITIVE RESPONSES?" //Cleveland State University Journal of Law and Health// (2007). Print. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Another concern raised…a family member” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The plan: </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">First, criminal penalties associated with drug testing should be removed. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bornstein, Brian H. "Pregnancy, Drug Testing, and the Fourth Amendment: Legal and Behavioral Implications." //Journal of Family Psychology// 17.2 (2003): 220-28. Print. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Obviously for any…needed prenatal care” </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; margin-left: 0in;">Second, the best solution to prevent the negative effect of drugs is to institute a program that rehabilitates mothers prior to the third trimester of pregnancy. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Monica Jobe-Armstrong confirms, A Community Guide: Strategies and Interventions for Dealing with Crystal Methamphetamine and Other Emerging Drug Trends. Http://www.llbc.leg.bc.ca/public/pubdocs/bcdocs/379517/cmcommunityguide.pdf. Methamphetamine Task Group of the FH Addictions Services Planning Steering Committee, June 2005. Web. 25 June 2010.// </span>
//<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“The stage a…neonatal outcomes” </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">I advocate the use of programs in the model of the Meta House. </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mikeisha T. Anderson ,"Criminal Penalties for Women Engaging in Substance Abuse During Pregnancy." </span>//Women's Rights Law Reporter //21.181 (2000). Print.//
//<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Meta House is…criminal justice system.” </span>//






==//<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>//== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Drug Courts CP</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.75in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.5in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">I. </span>Text: All drug abusers ought to be treated through Drug Courts.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Douglas Marlowe et al. [Douglas Marlowe works at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #262626; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=David+S.+Festinger&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|David S. Festinger]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #262626; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Patricia+A.+Lee&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Patricia A. Lee]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania,</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #262626; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Karen+L.+Dugosh&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Karen L. Dugosh]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #262626; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Kathleen+M.+Benasutti&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Kathleen M. Benasutti]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the </span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania.] “Matching Judicial Supervision to Clients’ Risk Status in Drug Court</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ““Drug courts are separately identified … supervision or incarceration.” </span><span style="color: #272700; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Crime Delinquency vol. 52 no. 1 January 2006 pp52-76. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Drug courts are… supervision or incarceration.”</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.75in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.5in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">II. </span>Competition: The CP is mutually exclusive and net beneficial.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">III. </span>Net Benefits:</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">1. </span>First, drug courts decrease the amount of drug offenders.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #141314; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">David Wilson et al [David Wilson received his Ph.D. from George Mason University. Administration of Justice, George Mason], "A systematic review of drug court effects on recidivism" Journal of Experimental Crimonology (2006) FD “</span>The findings presented… high-quality randomized studies.”</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. </span>This is key to prevent terrorism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mark A.R. Kleiman [Contractor, Domestic Social Policy Division], “Illicit Drugs and the Terrorist Threat: Causal Links and Implications for Domestic Drug Control Policy”, CRS Report for Congress, 15. 2004 RK</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">3. </span>Terrorism leaves a strong impact on the world.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Hamid Sahrestani [Ohio University], "Protectivity Versus Productivity and Economic Growth: Empirical Evidence from selected countries" International Business and Economics Reseasrch Journal - October 2008 FD</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">4. </span>Drug abuse and violent crime are closely related.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">DEA “According to the [In] 1999… families, and lives.”</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START DA</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt; padding: 0px;">Subpoint A: The START Treaty will pass with broad bipartisan support.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt; padding: 0px;">The Hill 10/27/10</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt; padding: 0px;">(“Lugar: Fallout from election could derail vote on START treaty,” pg online @<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fthehill.com%2fhomenews%2fsenate%2f126161-midterm-election-fallout-could-derail-start-treaty-vote-key-republican-says|http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/126161-midterm-election-fallout-could-derail-start-treaty-vote-key-republican-says]]</span> </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“Secretary of State…expired in December.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint B: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill his political capital.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Joshua Keating</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“In a column…of the debate.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint C: Without political capital , the treaty will collapse. Obama’s political capital is key.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Jonathon McLaughlin</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fswitchboard.nrdc.org%2fblogs%2fjmclaughlin%2fthe_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html|http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“Unfortunately, the polarizing…not a give.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint D: START prevents nuclear war.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Mike Blanchfield, “Obama’s Nuclear-Weapons Adviser Delivers Doomsday Scenario,” </span>//The Vancouver Sun//, July 4, 2009, available at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.commondreams.org%2fheadline%2f2009%2f07%2f04-1|http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2009/07/04-1]]</span>. Accessed April 20, 2010.
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt; padding: 0px;">“Still, Blair and…them,” Blair said.”</span>

ART Advantage Counterplan:


Part 1: Text: Antiretroviral therapy will be used to curb the spread of HIV.
Part 2: Competition: Net beneficial
Part 3: Solvency
Antiretrovirals decrease HIV transmission
De Cock et al- 2009
Kevin M De Cock a, Siobhan P Crowley a, Ying-Ru Lo a, Reuben M Granich a & Brian G Williams a <span style="color: black;">[Department of HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization, 20 avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.] </span>//Bulletin of the World Health Organization// 2009;87:488-488. doi: 10.2471/BLT.09.067330. ”Preventing HIV transmission with antiretrovirals” [[http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/7/09-067330/en/]]
“There is little…is on ART”

Antiretrovirals could stop transmission within five years
Landau- 2010
Elizabeth Landau, [CNN], “Expert: Using antiretroviral drugs early may curb HIV/AIDS spread”, [[http://articles.cnn.com/2010-02-20/health/hiv.antiretroviral.drugs_1_hiv-tests-antiretroviral-treatment-allergy-and-infectious-diseases?_s=PM:HEALTH]]
“Antiretroviral drugs that…years,” Williams said.”


T- Coercive

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A. Interpretation: Topical affs must provide assistance to governments for the provision of coercive interventions to protect the health of the public – voluntary measures taken to improve health are not topical. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mark A. **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Rothstein</span>**, Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine and Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the University of Louisville, **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">2002</span>** [“Public Health Law, Society, And Ethics: Rethinking the Meaning of Public Health,” </span>Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics (30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 144), Summer, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis]
“The third conception…and environmental regulation”
Standards:
Fairly balanced ground
Limits
Marcel **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Verweij</span>**, Senior Researcher and Lecturer at the Ethics Institute at Utrecht University, **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">and</span>** Angus **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Dawson</span>**, Senior Lecturer in Ethics at the Centre for Professional Ethics at Keele University, **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">2007</span>** [“The Meaning of 'Public' in 'Public Health',” Ethics, Prevention, and Public Health, Edited by Angus Dawson and Marcel Verweij, Published by Oxford University Press, ISBN 0199290695, p. 17 ]
“By contrast the…in some way”
Substantive education and productive policy making.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mark A. **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Rothstein</span>**, Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine and Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the University of Louisville, **<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">2002</span>** [“Public Health Law, Society, And Ethics: Rethinking the Meaning of Public Health,” </span>Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics (30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 144), Summer, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis]
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">“According to the…inappropriate government activities” </span>







=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**January-February**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
== == 
== == 

Equal Treatment AC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Observation 1: The affirmative burden is to prove only that a significant number of juveniles ought to be treated as adults in the criminal justice system. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Ought” implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Respect for autonomy is not just //a// rational requirement, it is //the// rational requirement. Velleman, J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], //Self to Self// (2006), 44. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“The value of…disregard for persons.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This requirement generates an obligation to treat individuals as ends-in-themselves. Velleman 2: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“If your happiness…over the latter.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">All people guilty of committing a crime ought to be punished. This ensures equality within a society. James Rachels [He received his Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, studying under Professors W. D. Falk and E. M. Adams. He taught at the University of Richmond, New York University, the University of Miami, Duke University and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, where he spent the last twenty-six years of his career.], "Punishment and Desert” Ethics in Practice. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“As we have…restores the balance.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Being consistent with applying fair punishment is key to preserving the social order. Howell:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">James C. Howell, former director of research and program development at the Office of Juvenile justice and Delinquency Prevention, 1997, Juvenile Justice & Youth Violence, p. 20 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“In their second…concepts of justice.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">S: Distributing fair punishment</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Morse explains the requirements for moral responsibility.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Rationality or normative…agent normatively rational.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Minimum competence is sufficient for moral responsibility. Morse 2: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“But not all…their normative competence.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention one is that juveniles are able to realize the significance of their actions, thus they are rational. Ward:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ward, Cynthia V., "Punishing Children in the Criminal Law" (2006). Faculty Publications. Paper 102. http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/102 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“The argument against…such a theory.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention two is that juveniles possess the same rational cognitive capacity that adults do. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">American Psychological Association. (1990). Brief for Amicus Curiae in support of appellees, Hodgson v. Minnesota, 497 U.S. 417, No. 88-805. Washington, DC: Author. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Psychologists have generated…supports these principles.”</span>


Equal Treatment AC v2

The affirmative only needs to prove that at least some juveniles ought to be treated in the same way as at least some adults.
Ought implies a moral obligation so I value morality.
Any form of consequentialism requires that individuals maximize the good even at one’s personal expense. David McNaughton and Piers Rawling, “Deontology,” Ethics in Practice, ed. Hugh LaFollette,
3rd edition, (Blackwell, Oxford, 2007), 40.
“Does someone have…to be struck.”
If two agents are equally responsible for the same act-type, then we ought to treat their individual acts equally. <span style="color: #333333;">Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." </span>//<span style="color: #333333; font-style: normal;">Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science</span>//<span style="color: #333333;">, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. RK</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">“As we have…restores the balance.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">Treating individual acts equally provides a reason for people to act morally. Rachels 2. </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">“To these reasons…to be effective.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">Criterion: Meeting the principle of equal retribution</span>
At least some juveniles are just as responsible as at least some adults for violent felonies.
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">An individual only needs minimal competence. <span style="color: #333333;">Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." </span>//<span style="color: #333333; font-style: normal;">Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science</span>//<span style="color: #333333;">, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. RK</span> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">“But not all…their normative competence.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">A) Age is an arbitrary distinction. <span style="color: #333333;">Maroney 09. </span></span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 11pt;">Maroney, Associate Professor at Vanderbilt University Law School, “The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice”, Notre Dame Law Review, Volume 85, 2009</span>
“Neuroscience also tends…not resolve them.”
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">B) Adolescents know the consequences of their actions. Ward, Cynthia V., "Punishing Children in the Criminal Law" (2006). Faculty Publications. Paper 102. http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/102 </span>
“The argument against…such a theory.”
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">C) Age is not always and necessarily relevant when treating people based on culpability. </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">“Individuals mature at…fact without justification.”</span>
D) Juveniles are not naïve risk-takers. Thomas J. Bernard, “The Cycle of Juvenile Justice”, [[http://www.amazon.com/Cycle-Juvenile-Justice-Thomas-Bernard/dp/0195071832]]
“Some youthful offenders…they are caught.”

Deterrence AC:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation. Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about …reject the competitors.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The deontological story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “There are at least… of practical rationality.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> the standard is maximizing good consequences.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> My sole contention is that treating juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults better deters crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Subpoint A: It is crucial to separate the concepts of deterrence and recidivism. General deterrence refers to discouraging would-be offenders from committing crime in the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Subpoint B: The impact of violent felonies is huge.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Juvenile arrest rates for murder rose 177 percent over 15 years. Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “The divergence of juvenile… been relatively steady.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We will face a future wave of violence worse than we’ve seen in the 90’s. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" (March 1996) FD “From 1990 to 1994… past ten years.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The number of juveniles committing murder will increase to 5,000 a year and can increase by even more. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/tjvfox2.pdf (March 1996) FD “Even if the… increase even more.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Subpoint C: Trying juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults reduces violent crimes.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Levitt 2- Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “Equation 4 is estimated… presented in Table 4.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Roughly 60 percent of the variation between juvenile and adult crime rates can be explained exclusively by the severity of punishment. Levitt 3 “Using the results… rates relative to adults.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This is not merely a spurious correlation. There are three causal warrants:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Increasing the severity of punishment increases the costs of crime. Bernard, Thomas J. The Cycle of Juvenile Justice. Oxford University Press: New York, 1992. (p. 169) “Some youthful offenders… if they are caught.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Trying juveniles as adults means their records are not expunged once they reach the age of majority. Barbara Boland “Fighting Crime: The Problem of Adolescents” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-) Vol. 71, No. 2 (Summer, 1980), pp. 94-97 “The confidential nature… his/her criminal career.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. The fact that relative differences in the punitiveness of juvenile systems independently confirms that deterrence is the causal mechanism. Levitt 4 “Evidence that a substantial… is the operative force.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Underview:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. I defend treating juveniles and adults in separate facilities. Barry C. Feld, [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Soci-ology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, “The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology”, 88:1 pp.64-136 FD “Punishing youth does… a voluntary basis.” ‘</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Age is a mitigating factor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. The round ought to be decided on the preponderance of evidence standard. </span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

Recidivism NC:
S- Maximizing good consequences
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Contention 1 is Recidivism. </span>
First, juveniles transferred to the criminal system have higher recidivism rates. Florida proves. Frontline; <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span> Frontline, “Juvenile Justice: Does Treating Kids Like Adults Make a Difference?” WGBH Educational Foundation, January 2001.
[[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/juvenile/stats/kidslikeadults.html]]
“A 1996 Florida…in juvenile courts”
Second, trying juveniles as adults results in no punishment increasing juveniles incentive to reoffend. Elsea:
“Trying juveniles in…an adult prison.”
Recidivism has four impacts. Jane Wilson [Stanford’s Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US], “Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States” Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
“The effects of…cannot be understated.”
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Contention 2 is violence in prison. Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons. Richard Redding [Professor of Law at Chapman University School], "Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency" Office of Justice Programs (June 2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">“Juveniles in adult…even more violent.”</span>

Constitutionality NC:
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">V- Morality</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moral claims are altered and defined by the promises we make. </span>**<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> H. L. A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (Apr., 1955), pp. 175-191.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">“The most obvious…else can complain.”</span>
S- **//consistency with the law//**.
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Agents have moral obligations to follow the law. <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span></span> H. L. A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (Apr., 1955), pp. 175-191. FD</span>
“Special rights are…those of disobedience"
It is unconstitutional to treat juveniles as adults in the criminal justice system. The supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional for juveniles to receive two kinds of punishment that adults receive. Patty Garin [Partner at Stern Shapiro Weissberg and Garin in Boston], "Graham v. Florida" Massachusetts Chapter www.nlgmass.org/2010/09/graham-v-florida
“In Roper v….on narrower grounds.”


Wrongful Convictions NC
V- Morality
Coercion is impermissible because it treats people as a mere means. Christine Korsgaard [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University], “The Reasons We Can Share: An Attack on the Distinction between Agent-Relative and Agent-Neutral Values,” Social Philosophy and Policy, Vol. 10, Issue 1, January 1993, p. 26 of 48.
“According to Kant…to what happens.”
S: preventing wrongful convictions.
There is a difference between the juvenile inquisitorial model of justice and the adult adversarial system. Franklin Stier [Professor of Law at California State University Dominguez Hills], "What can the American Adversary system learn from an inquisitorial system of justice?"
“Perhaps the most…of admitted evidence.”
The inquisitorial model of justice places a higher emphasis on the discovery of the truth. Michael Wilson et al "Stranded Between Partisanship and the truth? A comparative analysis of legal ethics in the adversarial and inquisitorial systems of justice" www.austlii.edu.au/au/journals/MULR/2005/14.html
“It is often…liberties and dignity.”


Infant Incapacitation NC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the status quo many states do not have legislation protecting minors’ right to remain silent. Instead they rely on the totality of circumstances test to determine whether individuals are capable to waiving their right to remain silent. </span>
Michael Wayne Brooks [George Mason University School of Law, J.D.] “KIDS WAIVING GOODBYE TO THEIR RIGHTS: AN ARGUMENT AGAINST JUVENILES' ABILITY TO WAIVE THEIR RIGHT TO REMAIN SILENT DURING POLICE INTERROGATIONS” George Mason Law Review Vol. 13 No. 219. 2004. AG
"Some states have...of infant incapacitation"
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">I advocate that we do the affirmative, but the US Supreme Court should adopt the infant incapacitation rule to prevent minors from waiving the right to remain silent without proper guardian or legal representation. Brooks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Because the capacity...of infant incapacity"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Three justifications:</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">First, Studies show that juvenile’s brains develop later than adults.</span>** </span> Donna M. Bishop and Hillary B. Farber.“THE PROMISE OF IN RE GAULT: PROMOTING AND PROTECTING THE RIGHT TO COUNSEL IN JUVENILE COURT: SYMPOSIUM 2007: Joining the Legal Significance of Adolescent Developmental Capacities with the Legal Rights Provided by In re Gault” Rutgers Law Review Vol. 60 No. 125. 2007. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"There are significant...experience and knowledge."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Second, studies have found that adolescents do not understand the implications of Miranda rights being administered, which affects the waiver process in the JJS. Bishop and Farber 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"In a more...to waive them." </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Juveniles are more susceptible to interrogation techniques which alters their account of the crime leading to false convictions. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Steven A. Drizin and Greg Luloff. [Steven Drizin is a Clinical Professor of Law. Northwestern University School of Law; Legal Director, Bluhm Legal Clinic's Center on Wrongful Convictions. Greg Luloff is a Law clerk to the Honorable J. Robin Hunt, Court of Appeals.] “Are Juvenile Courts A Breeding Ground for Wrongful Convictions?” Northern Kentucky Law Review Vol 34 No 257. 2007.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"There are several...placed upon them."</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thus, the Supreme Court should adopt the infant incapacity test. Brooks 3:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"The greatest obstruction...more securely guaranteed."</span>


=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**March-April**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
== == 

OH NOEZ GENOCIDE AC:

V-Morality
What a government should or should not do is determined strictly by a logic of rights protection. Sunstein and Vermuele
“In our view…fully discourage it.”
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This obligation extends to citizens of other countries. </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Charles R. Beitz [<span style="color: #262626;">Professor of Politics at Princeton University.</span>] “Bounded morality: justice and the state in world politics” International Organization 33,3, Summer 1979. P408. AG </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“The morality of…a higher morality.”</span>
S- Rights protection
Obs 1: The U.S. Government can regulate the behavior of PMFs to be in accordance with U.S. law.
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Devin Desai, J.D., 1997, Yale Law School, B.A., in Rhetoric, 1993, University of California, Berkeley. Visiting Professor, Thomas Jefferson School of Law., “Article: Have Your Cake and Eat It Too: A Proposal for a Layered Approach to Regulating Private Military Companies”, University of San Francisco Law Review, Lexis </span>
“Governments, regional security…United States government.”
PMFs are necessary to stop conflict in third world countries. Five reasons:
First, most of the major power militaries are unwilling to intervene in third world conflicts. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Doug Brooks – President (“Protecting People: The PMC Potential”, http://www.hoosier84.com/0725brookspmcregs.pdf), </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Doug, Brooks, International Peace Operations Association. </span>
<span class="Underline">“The stark fact…cannot be overemphasized.”</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, if PMCs were sent in Rwanda during the civil war, they could have seized and disabled anti-democratic propaganda and stopped genocide.**Milliard 3** – Major Todd S (“Overcoming Post-Colonial Myopia: A Call to Recognize and Regulate Private Military Companies”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA440071&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf), </span>
<span class="Underline">. Judge Advocate General Corps US Army </span>
<span class="Underline">“The Rwandan civil…PMC military services.”</span>
<span class="Underline">Third, PMCs provide services to humanitarian aid efforts that other military groups can’t. **Murphy Ian 10** (“Private Military Companies, Peacekeeping, and Africa States: A Critical Analysis of PMCs in Peacekeeping Operations in Africa”, </span>[[http://pearl.plymouth.ac.uk:8080/pearl_jspui/bitstream/10026.1/297/1/2010murphy357382phd.pdf]]<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">) Ian Doctor of Philosophy.: </span></span>
<span class="Underline">“CARE International, after…</span>professional security companies.”
Fourth, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If PMFs had been contracted in Rwanda when reports of genocide first surfaced, PMFs would have prevented genocide at the fraction of the eventual cost. Jayce Newton: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Consider the case…the eventual cost.”</span>

Fifth, AFRICOM is key to stability in Africa. Five reasons:
**Huddleston- 2010**
Ambassador Vicki Huddleston, [Deputy Assistant Secretary for Africa in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, at the Círculo de Bellas Artes (Madrid)], “Africa, AFRICOM, and the Path to Stability”, [[http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/wcm/connect/fb6a32004344bdbca9ffeb9b8a04b37a/00042_Huddleston_Africa_AFRICOM_Pact_Stability.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=fb6a32004344bdbca9ffeb9b8a04b37a]]
"AFRICOM contributes to...for these reasons"





==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 


Accountability NC:

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Since individuals have a right to self-government, they have a right to democratic participation. Christiano and Zalta <span style="color: black;">Christiano, Tom, "Democracy",</span></span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition)</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 11.0pt;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2008/entries/democracy/>.</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">: </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">“Some argue that…activities they share.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">S- Democratic accountability</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The government is not justified in military action if that action is not subject to the review of citizens. PMFs disconnect the public from military objectives by placing information out of reach. </span>
<span class="CitationChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Blakely 06</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> -- Gregg Blakely, staff writer for Peace Magazine, Political Science Honors B.A. from the University of Toronto, “Marketized Soldiering: How Private Military Companies Challenge Global Governance, Erode Accountability and Exacerbate Conflict,” Fall 2006. http://ir.lib.sfu.ca/retrieve/4187/etd2603.pdf<span class="CitationChar">. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">“Public involvement in…circumvents democratic review.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">SOFs CP</span>

<span class="Underline">Text: I advocate replacing PMFs where they are used with Special Operations Forces, or SOFs. </span>
<span class="Underline">Competition: The existence of PMFs are uniquely detrimental to SOFs. They lure their members away. </span>
**Smith- 2004**
Richard Vector Smith, “Can Private Military Companies Replace Special Operations Forces”, [MA Candidate, War Studies Programme, Royal Military College of Canada”, <span style="color: blue;">[[https://mail-attachment.googleusercontent.com/attachment?ui=2&ik=7eb07aead3&view=att&th=12e797ee9b0d5f39&attid=0.1&disp=inline&safe=1&zw&saduie=AG9B_P-9d_gdgzXwGhfnGJ2TbVmD&sadet=1299267492429&sads=aIB5aNxAA6tjeFOtmsRfa4l9uV8&sadssc=1]]</span>
<span class="Underline">“These private military…run SOF organizations.” </span>
<span class="Underline">Solvency: </span>
<span class="Underline">SOFs are accountable. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoD- 2010 </span>**
“Today’s Armed Forces: Special Operations Forces”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dod.gov/execsec/adr98/toc.html]]</span>, RK
<span class="Underline">“Ensure maximum flexibility…authority are paramount.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SOFs are empirically effective in solving third world conflicts and genocides. DoD: </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoD- 2010 </span>**“Today’s Armed Forces: Special Operations Forces”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dod.gov/execsec/adr98/toc.html]]</span>, RK 
<span class="Underline">“In support of…and Southern watch.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SOF is efficient at quick deployment and adapting. DOD: </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoD- 2010 </span>**“Today’s Armed Forces: Special Operations Forces”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dod.gov/execsec/adr98/toc.html]]</span>, RK 
<span class="Underline">“Stress SOF utility…operations core missions.” </span>