[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Greenhill Round One SK Withdrawal Aff== 

**South Korea 1aC with James Mantil**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should gradually but completely withdraw United States Forces Korea. Requisite funding and enabling mechanisms provided.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage One: Korean Conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The status quo policy of military posturing, threat constructions, military exercises, and assuming we know how North Korea reacts only increases tensions and risks all out war</span>**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paul Liem, November 25, 2010 </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">("Retaliation, Retaliation," Korea Policy Institute, accessed 11/30/10 http://www.kpolicy.org/projects-spotlight.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The frequency of U.S.-South Korea... leading to all-out war, be unbroken.</span>

**The United States has reemphasized its commitment to South Korea but the recent military tensions could lead to more incidences. Instability in North Korea and the succession process are contributing to the escalating tensions**
__**Christian Science Monitor 11/26**__ (Tom A. Peter, 11/26/10, "north Korea says on 'brink of war' as US, South Korea prepare for military ...", http://www.csmonitor.com/World/terrorism-security/2010/1126/North-Korea-says-on-brink-of-war-as-US-South-Korea-prepare-for-military-exercises)
The United States has reemphasized... or a combination of both.

**Recent attacks clearly increased the brink of war- the next time could spiral into full scale conflict**
__**Beck, November 25,2010**__ (Peter, "Korea tensions are the lastest in a long history" interview with Tony Jones Australian Broadcasting Company, accessed at http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2010/s3076885.htm)
If the recent aggression... spiral into war.

**Because of the US tripwire - miscalculation and escalation of the conflict could cause U.S. nuclear retaliation or global conflict**
__**Horween 09**__ (Matt, "Time to Remove U.S. Troops From South Korea", http://www.thestreet.com/story/10555800/opinion-time-to-remove-us-troops-from-south-korea.html)
If North Korea decides to move..Philippines in World War II.

**Conflict on the Korean peninsula especially nuclear use triggers significant impacts- it destroys the ozone layer, global agriculture, the economy, and the global nonproliferation regime**
__**Hayes and Hamel-Green, 10**__ (Peter, "The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia", January 5, accessed at http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)
The consequences of failing... American nuclear hegemony

**United States troops presence guarantees escalation from error and miscalculation and prevents a peaceful resolution on the Korean Peninsula. the US must withdraw its forces now**
__**Hale, November 28, 2010**__ (Cliff,"Stuck between a ROK and a hard place", accessed on 11/30/10, http://www.theshorthorn.com/content/view/21027/266/)
There is a reason why... business with the ROK.

**Presumption of history - when Jimmy Carter offered the plan back in the 1970s it worked- North Korea offered to reciprocate and move toward rapproachment**
__**Cumings 05**__ (Bruce, "Korea's Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p.474)
When the Carter administration...in the south once Korea was unified.

**The continued demonization of North Korea simplifies and marginalizes the Koreas, risking the very conflict the troops are intended to prevent**
**Cumings 05** __(Bruce, "Korea's Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p.474)__
The point is not that...if not a global holocaust.

**Realism doesn't apply to the Korean peninsula**
__**Kang 03**__ (David C., Spring 2003, "Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks", International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10)
During this time Asia...can strengthen the theories themselves.

**Put away your threat constructed right wing arguments - Asian countries not realist and conflict based on western assumptions are wrong and empirically disproven- reject the any risk mentality of the negative when it comes to Asia**
Kang 03 **__(David C., Spring 2003, "Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks", International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10)__**
Following the end of the Cold War...rather than dismissing them.

**Only a commitment to decrease US presence on the Korean peninsula sends the necessary signal of US commitment to peace which reduces North Korean threat perceptions are prevents all-out war in Asia**
__**Hui 09**__ (Zhang, June 2009, "don't play nuclear chicken with a desperate pariah", http://www.nuclearno.com/text.asp?13773, Accessed July 13,2010)
In retaliation for tightened...security assurances and guarantees.

**Advantage 2: The sexploitation of the Korean peninsula**
**Despite the "zero tolerance" policy military prostituttion continues in the context of Korea**
__**Kirk 08**__ (Gwyn, "Gender and U.S. Bases in the Asia-Pacific", March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)
Military prostitution continues despite...during the Vietnam War."

**The US military presence in Korea and the heightened state of US forces results in rape and other forms of violence against women**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Kirk 08 **__(Gwyn, "Gender and U.S. Bases in the Asia-Pacific", March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)__**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">violence against women is pervasive...political,economic, and social structures.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Sexual exploitation in the form of prostitution and sex trafficking is dehumanizing and is tantamount to slavery and must be confronted**</span>
__**Enriquez 99**__ (Jean, "Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare", http://www.catwap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/)
CATW asserts that trafficking...as less than human.

**We must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery such as human trafficking**
__**Schmitz 04**__ (Joseph E., "Implementing the Department of Defense 'Zero Tolerance' Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans", http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf)
A More fundamental answer...leadership standard.

**Patriarchy outweighs all and culminates in extinction. Our plan's confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions embedded in militarism is key to solve.**
__**Warren and Cady 96**__ (Karen and Duane, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12013, LV)
Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy...and global contexts.

**You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first**
__**Bromberg 09**__ (Sarah, "The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics", http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chatper1.html, 12/25/09, LV)
The evolution of ethical systems...and slaughtering of human beings.

**Only withdrawal of our military troops can prevent sexual exploitation - the plan is the only option to combat rape and sex trafficking**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Kirk 08**__ (Gwyn, "Gender and U.S. Bases in the Asia-Pacific", March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Militarism is a system of...and to act accordingly.</span>




<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">South Korea 1AC </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should gradually but completely withdraw United States Forces Korea. Requisite funding and enabling mechanisms provided. </span>**</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention 1: Inherency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">28,500 troops are stationed in South Korea in the squo.</span></span> </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Lasseter 10__** </span></span><span class="cardChar">(Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html]]</span>, JH)</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__The conflict …..__</span></span><span class="cardChar">standoff will end soon. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US military presence is expanding on the Korean peninsula despite opposition by local populations </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Kirk 2008__**</span></span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">The expansion of U.S. …..new bombing training site. </span></span></span>__</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2: Threat Construction—sixty years of US policy and rhetoric has created the tension that exists on the Korean peninsula—the entire situation is a construction borne out of the post world war two and cold war power politics. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Cold War mindset was a framework which justified U.S. creation of post war South Korean police state </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Cumings 2005__**</span></span> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 209) ncp </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">American policy…… East-West problem.</span></span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. falsely asserts that North Korea is a threat, despite North Korea wanting rapprochement – It is entrapped on the Cold War mentality. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**Kang 03**</span> </span>__<span class="cardChar">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">Most importantly, __<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">North Korea ……</span></span>__The Little Mermaid. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The US constructs North Korea as a rogue state. – creates a self fulfilling prophecy </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Bleiker__**</span></span>, Ph.D. international relations from the Australian National University, Jul <span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__2003__** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">(Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, </span></span> </span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> International Affairs, http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570 DA: 18/05/2010 pg. 4 jb, sob) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">The central argument …..solely to North Korea's actions. </span></span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Our “stick” approach empirically fails - trying to punish North Korea for their actions as a “rogue state” is a flawed policy framework </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Bleiker, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, 2003</span></span>__** (Roland Bleiker, “A Rogue is a Rogue is a Rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” Accessed on JSTOR, pg. 4, jb, sob) </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">One of the most revealing interpretations ………….the nuclear option.'2 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Empirically, longtime U.S. nuclear threats made North Korean nuclear proliferation inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Cumings Professor of History University of Chicago, 2005 </span></span>__**(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 470-71) ncp </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__If we assume that P’yongyang’s …….such weapons itself__</span></span>. </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Demonization and caricaturing of North Korea reflects and reify the marginalization of the Koreas, risking regional war and global holocaust </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Cumings 2005__** </span></span>(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) ncp </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">The point is not that North Korea ………………escalate to a regional if not a global holocaust</span></span>__. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">North Korean nuclear use triggers every impact – it destroys the ozone layer, global agriculture, the economy, and the global nonproliferation regime </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Hayes and Hamel-Green, Nautilus Institute, 10</span></span> </span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute and Michael, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, January 5, accessed at http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__The consequences of failing ……………….__</span></span>“the end of American nuclear hegemony.”8 </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention 3: The sexploitation of the Korean peninsula </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Despite the “zero tolerance” policy military prostitution continues in the context of Korea </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Kirk, Professor of Women Studies at Antioch, 2008</span></span>__** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__Military prostitution ……….__</span></span>during the Vietnam War. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The US Military presence in Korea and the heightened state of US forces results in rape and other forms of violence against women </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Kirk again in 2008__**</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Violence against …………and social structures. </span>__</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc265094054]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sexual exploitation of women in the form of prostitution and sex trafficking is dehumanizing and is tantamount to slavery and must be confronted. </span>**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Enriquez, Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in Asia Pacific, 1999 </span></span></span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">CATW asserts that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__trafficking in women …………..less than human.__ </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery such as human trafficking. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Schmitz, DOD Inspector General, 2004 </span>__**</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">“Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">A more fundamental answer……………….” leadership standard. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Patriarchy outweighs all and culminates in extinction. Our plan’s confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions embedded in militarism is key to solve. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Warren and Cady 1996</span></span>__** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Karen and Duane, Assistant Professors Macalester University and Hamline University, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12-13, LV) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 15pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Operationalized, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__the evidence of patriarchy ……………..__</span></span>and global contexts. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity. A vote against the plan is a vote in favor of a system where racism, rape, and sex trafficking are acceptable, and dehumanization is a norm. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Bromberg 2009__**</span></span> (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, 12/25/09, LV) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">The evolution of ethical systems ………………slaughtering of human beings.</span></span> </span>__</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention 4: Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Troop withdrawal necessary for South Korea to transcend U.S. Cold War driven imperialism – Without withdrawal, Koreans not only lack agency, but are exposed to dangerous miscalculations and denied necessary security stability in Northeast Asia </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Cumings 2005__**</span></span> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 470-71) ncp </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">The Cold War ………………..world remain unresolved.</span></span> </span>__</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The plan is key – a complete withdrawal of troops is the only way to ease tensions in the Korean peninsula. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__<span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**Scofield 04**</span> </span>__(David, Staffwriter for the Asia Times, Feb 28, “Korean Peace requires US compromise, troop exit”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/FB28Dg06.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, Date accessed: 6/28, JH) </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__A new deal__</span></span> today ……………..Korean quagmire. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Only troop withdrawal resolves North Korean threat perceptions and prevents all-out war in Asia </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Hui, 9 -__** </span></span>Zhang, Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, June 2009, “Don’t play nuclear chicken with a desperate pariah,” http://www.nuclearno.com/text.asp?13773, Date Accessed July 13, 2010 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">In retaliation for tightened ……………….security assurances and guarantees </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Presumption of History- is on the our side when we tried soft line policies it worked- North Korea open up to us but then we went back to hard line policies </span>** </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Cumings Professor of History University of Chicago, 2005 (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, //Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History//, p. 474) SH </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">When the Carter …………..Korea was unified. </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">      </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Only withdrawal of our military troops can prevent sexual exploitation—the plan is the only option to combat rape and sex trafficking </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Kirk, 2008__**</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Addressing Militarism </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__Militarism is a system ………………..and to act accordingly.__</span></span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Realism doesn’t apply to the Korean peninsula </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Kang professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college 03__** </span></span><span class="cardChar">(David C., Spring 2003, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks”, International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10, JH & BH) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">During this time Asia ………………………application can strengthen the theories themselves. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Put away your threat constructed right wing arguments—Asian countries not realist and conflict based on western assumptions are wrong and empirically disproven—reject the any risk mentality of the negative when it comes to Asia </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Kang, professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college 03__** </span></span><span class="cardChar">(David C., Spring 2003, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks”, International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10, JH & BH) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">Following the end of the Cold ………….rather than dismissing them. </span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==Post-Historicism K== 

**The 1AC takes focus away from structural inequities and disagreement to a "politics" of difference. However, difference without disagreement becomes the mantra of any system that avoids any active engagement in shaping politics turning the case and rendering us to a position of non-action**
**Michaels in 2k4**
(Walter Benn, Prof English @ U Illinois-Chicago, The Shape of the Signifier: 1967 to the End of History, ??-??)

This identification of the person...about the primacy of identity.

**And, this debate is about what they justify - even if they do not explicitly endorse identity, culture, etc., their position in relation to performance and meaning entails these simultaneous positions**
**Michaels in 2k4**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">(Walter Benn, Prof English @ U Illinois-Chicago, The Shape of the Signifier: 1967 to the End of History, ??-??)</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">That question can, of course, be asked...as part of Thomas Shepard's //Autobiography.//</span>**

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
**The elimination of disagreement renders all attempt to resist violence impossible - their position justifies such tenets as holocaust denialism.**
**Sherry in 96**
(Suzanna, Prof Civ Rts & Civ Lib @ U Minnesota, "The Sleep of Reason", 84 Geo. L.J. 453)

The consequences of accepting epistemological pluralism... neither completed nor defeated.

**Voting negative is a gesture of disagreement - this very gesture moves away from identitarian politics and calls into being a world where arguments organize politics rather than identity and difference - we should be indifferent to difference.**
**Michaels in 2k**
(Walter Benn, Prof English @ U Illinois-Chicago, "Political Science Fictions", New Literary History, 31.4)

In my own work over the last ten years...after identity politics but to live it.