Det[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 


V- morality

First. Morality is prescriptive

Mortimer Adler

“a prescriptive statement…ought to be”

Robert Nozick- Anarchy State and Utopia

“there are only individual…this upon him”

Thomas hill jr.
“There is…honoring it symbolically”

Vc- Preserving human worth

C1-
Sa.
Lee-
Hostages are persons…in fact harmed.”

S
C2

Securing the Bomb. Matthew Bunn, Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard University, Commissioned by the Nuclear Threat Initiative.April, 2010. www.nti.org/securingthebomb

“repeated assessments by….would be required.”

“there have been…weapon storage facilities.”

Schell, Jonathan. [Author, Fellow at Yale] “The Fate of the Earth and The Abolition” pg 26. 2000.
“The specific train of…eventually to an attack”


C3.

Alyn Ware. Health and Environmental Effects of the Production and Testing of Nuclear Weapons;NuclearFiles.org;Coordinator of the Parliamentary Network for Nuclear Disarmament, a project of the Middle Powers Initiative. . 2008.
Radiation released from…number 13 million.

The Four Paradoxes of Nuclear Strategy Author(s): Hans J. Morgenthau Source: The American Political Science Review, Vol. 58, No. 1 (Mar., 1964), pp. 23-35 Published by: American Political Science Association
“deterrence has thus…with every confrontation.”

Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation Author(s): Daniel S. Geller Source: The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc.
“the distribution of…of the opponent.”

Schell- same as above
“With some twenty.. infinity is still infinity.”


UTIL AC

V- Morality

VC-preventing extinction
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Schell, Jonathan. Schell, Jonathan. Stanford University Press “The Fate of the Earth and The Abolition”. 2000. </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"but it is clear...human history. "</span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">proliferation is happening now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Allison, Graham. "Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats." Foreign Affairs 89, no. 1 (January/February 2010): 74-85.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Already, North Koreas...Just in case."</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">Terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wittner, Lawrence [Lawrence Wittner is Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany. His latest book is Confronting the Bomb: A Short History of the World Nuclear Disarmament Movement]. “Nuclear Terrorism: How It Can Be Prevented.” The Huffington Post. January 11, 2010. <span style="color: #001ae5;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-terrorism-how-it_b_418720.html|http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-terrorism-how-it_b_418720.htm]]l</span></span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="color: #001ae5;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> "Such a disaster...to be obtained."</span></span></span></span>

<span style="color: #001ae5;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> </span></span></span><span style="color: #001ae5;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span></span><span style="color: #001ae5;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rhodes, Richard [affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award], Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety. December 14, 2009. <span style="color: #001ae5;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety]]</span>.</span></span>
=====<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"It's PAradoxical for...sending a message."</span></span></span>===== 

Accidents
<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Schell same as above</span></span>
<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"The specific train...to an attack."</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">A nuclear accident is inevitable</span></span>
<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> </span></span><span style="color: #000000;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sagan, Scott D. “The Limit of Safety: Organizations, Accidents and Nuclear Weapons.” Princeton (NJ), Princeton University Press, 1993.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Even if leaders...such organizations' members."</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;"> </span>
Deterrence
T<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">he Four Paradoxes of Nuclear Strategy Author(s): Hans J. Morgenthau Source: The American Political Science Review, Vol. 58, No. 1 (Mar., 1964), pp. 23-35 Published by: American Political Science Association</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">“deterrence has thus…with every confrontation.”</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation Author(s): Daniel S. Geller Source: The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">“the distribution of…of the opponent.”</span>


<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Holdren, John P. "Getting to Zero: Is Pursuing a Nuclear-Weapon-Free World Too Difficult? Too Dangerous? Too Distracting?" Discussion Paper 98-24, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, April 1998.</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"the cisac study...to conventional war."</span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span></span>


<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Inevitability of these actions</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Martin E. (Professor of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University. Dr. Hellman is best known as the inventor of the “public key” and “trap door” cryptographic techniques. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers). Nuclear War: Inevitable or Preventable? Foundation for Global Community. 2001. <span style="color: #001ae5;">[[http://www-ee.stanford.edu/%7Ehellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/hellman.html#Inevitability|http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/hellman.html#Inevitability]]</span> </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 19.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">" every day, their...war virtually inevitable"</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nuclear war means extinction. Michael Hogan, The Nuclear Freeze Campaign, 1994, p. 52.</span>
"In the fall of...number of scientists"










==Negative== 

Deterrence NC


Utilitarian Framework
Kantian Consequentialism, David Cummiskey, Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615, Published by: The University of Chicago Press
“In such a situation… to save many”
Deterrence
Victor Asal and Kyle Beardsley. A Strategic Approach to Nuclear Proliferation. Journal of Conflict Resolution. Journal of Peace Research 2007.
“Also in table… and non-nuclear opponents”
Asal and Beardsley 2
“As we can see… is relatively constant”



No First Use Counterplan

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">My advocacy is that all states adopt a no-first use policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Sagan </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 18px;">"The second objections...be significantly enhanced.</span></span>

Net Benefits
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 18px;">Sagan 2:</span></span>
"concerns about extended...non-proliferation benefits."


Same cite for all
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Scott D. Sagan. The Case for No First Use. Survival Magazine. June-July 2009.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]