[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Turkey Aff - Valley== 

Plan: The United States federal government should remove its B-61 bombs and all troops necessary to their maintenance from Incirlik Air Base in the Republic of Turkey.

Initially note – Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons now 
[J.J. Green, the national security correspondent, and Middle East proliferation expert for WTOP, CSPAN, and Voice of America, on WTOP “Iran ‘Definitely’ Building Nuclear Weapon”. 6/14/2010, http://www.wtop.com/?nid=25&sid=1979648 ] Saker
"There is no doubt <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Iran [...] </span>sources and Iran's own military activity. 

US withdraw of TNW’s from turkey grants them the credibility to prevent Iranian nuclearization
Kibaroglu 6/7/10 (Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”)
In addition to improvements in bilateral [...] <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S. nuclear weapons.</span>

Without this credibility Iran will nuclearize.
[Tulin Daloglu, Turkey expert for Foreign Policy, “Turkey Takes Sides”, published 4/16/2010. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/16/turkey_takes_sides?page=0,1 ] 
In principle, Erdogan shares Obama's [...] will have to blame is himself. 

This causes cascading proliferation
Rubin 9 – senior editor of the Middle East Quarterly, is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School (Michael, October 5, “Bad Options on Iran: An Israeli strike won't suffice”, http://www.meforum.org/2476/bad-options-on-iran )
For President Obama and most of [...] U.S.'s demise.

This results in nuclear war
Inbar 6 (Efraim, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University and Director of its Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies “The Need to Block a Nuclear Iran” Article was Peer Reviewed by David Leitner and Tamara Sternlieb, The Middle East Review of International Affairs, Vol 10 No 1 Article 7 March 2006) http://meria.idc.ac.il/journal/2006/issue1/jv10no1a7.html, AD: 7-31-09)
Further improvements in Iranian missiles would [...] stable nuclear deterrence in the region.

Independently the existence of Turkish TNW’s causes middle-east wildfire proliferation and war
Bell 2009 (Alexandra, Truman National Security Fellow, Aug 26, “Turkey’s Nuclear Crossroads,” www.Ploughshares.org)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Turkey has </span>quietly<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> held</span> NATO <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">tactical [...] </span>with whom I met would agree.

Terrorist attack would cause extinction 
Sid-Ahmed political analyst Sept 1 2k4 (Mohamed, “Extinction” Al-Ahram weekly, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm) 
We have reached a point in [...] <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, we will all be losers</span>.

Turkish nukes don’t deter or serve any purpose – only a risk of the advantage 
Bell and Loehrke 9 – manager at the Ploughshares Fund, Truman National Security Fellow, writer about U.S nuclear weapons in Turkey and research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund, graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
For more than 40 years, [...] country should be simple, right? 

[[#_Toc267330744]]
1. US-Russian relations are improving, but nuclear sharing technology threatens to halt relations 
Rogi, June 24, 2010 [ Josh, Opinions vary on state of US-Russian relations,” Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062305264.html]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U.S.-Russia [...] </span>are more difficult?" Gati said. 


2. Recent treaties and Russian policies have set the stage for US TNW withdraw, key to relations.
Kovalenko, May 19, 2010 [Natalya, Will US Tactical Nukes remain in Europe? The Voice of Russia, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html]
After the Russian and US Presidents [...] talks with Moscow without any preconditions. 


3. The plan is a confidence building measure – it sets a foundation for long-term Russian relations. 
Beach, 2009 [Hugh, The end of Nuclear Sharing, US Nuclear Weapons in Europe, December, http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a918528756&fulltext=713240928]
It seems that the continued presence [...] a strategic partner rather than adversary.


US-Russia have the ability to maintain a strong relationship – NOW is key
Dmitry V. Suslov, Deputy Director for Research at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, May 18, 2010, “U.S. - Russia relations after the New START treaty” http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20100518/159060786.html
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U.S.- [...] </span>dealing with a range of issues. 


U.S.-RUSSIA RELATIONS CHECK FOUR SCENARIOS OF NUCLEAR WAR
COHEN 1 (Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7, http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625&c=1&s=cohen) 
In these and other ways, [...] ? If not us, who?" 


And the proliferation of tactical nuclear weapons is the greatest threat the US faces today- leads to nuclear terrorism and justifies using nukes in war
Turner 2003 (Stansfield, Former Director of the CIA, former admiral in the Navy and acted as Commander in Chief of NATO’s southern flank, currently a senior research scholar at the University of Maryland, College Park School of Public Policy, Forward in the book Tactical Nuclear Weapons: Emergent Threats in an Evolving Security Environment)
Almost all discussions of nuclear arms [...] and fires were simply not addressed. 


Tactical nuclear weapons are a bigger threat than strategic nuclear weapons- we control the most probable internal link to a nuclear attack
Sokov 2002 (Nicolai Socov, “Issue Brief: Tactical Nuclear Weapons”, Nicolai Sokov is a senior research associate at the Center of Nonproliferation Studies, Monteray Institute of International Studies. He worked at the Institute of USA and Canadian Studies and the Institute of World Economy and International Relations in Moscow. From 1987-92 he worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union and Russia, he participated in Sstart I and Start II negotiations. He wrote the book Russian Strategic Modernization: Past and Future.)
In some respects, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">TNWs are [...] </span>others may well emulate this example. 



1. Turkey is trying to bring back Syria – Israel relations but it isn’t working

(Daily Outlook Afghanistan, first Afghan newspaper collection, 3/10/10 “Turkish Mediation in Syrian-Israeli Conflict” Lexis)

(Peace talks between Israel and Syria… regional politics may help this optimism come true.)

2. Water is the most probable scenario for war in the Middle East

Adel Darwish, Writer and commentator on the Middle East for the BBC, 5/30/03 “Analysis: Middle East water wars” http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2949768.stm

(After signing the 1979 peace treaty… reach a lasting and final settlement in the region.)

3. Israel and Syria will go to all-out war

(The New York Times 2/5/10 “Israeli Foreign Minister Adds Heat to Exchanges With Syria” Lexis)

(Israel's blunt-talking foreign minister… that war will move to the Israeli cities.'')

4. That spreads to full regional war

(Philippines News Agency 2/6/10 “Egypt cautions Israel vs war comments” Lexis)

(Egypt's Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul-Gheit… rounds of Turkey-mediated negotiations in 2008)

5. A war that breaks out in the Middle East would result in a global nuclear exchange.

John Steinbach, Nuclear specialist, Secretary of the Hiroshima-Nagasaki Peace Committee of the National Capitol Area,  ’2 	(Center for Research on Globalization, http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html)

(Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass… Middle East conflict could trigger a world conflagration." (44))


6. Withdrawing nukes lets Turkey bridge Syria – Israel dispute

(Mustafa Kibaroglu teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. He has held fellowships at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, the International Atomic Energy Agency, and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. June 2010 http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?Ver=1&Exp=07-20-2015&FMT=7&DID=2068796071&RQT=309&cfc=1)

(In addition to improvements in bilateral… criticism from Turkey's Middle Eastern neighbors.)

7. Turkey is key to keeping stability in the Middle East

Elliot Hen-Tov, Doctoral Candidate, and Bernard Haykel, Professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University, 6/18/10, (“Turkey’s Gain is Iran’s Loss”, New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/19/opinion/19haykel.html?_r=1&scp=1&sq=turkey's%20gain%20is%20iran's%20loss&st=cse)

(Since Israel’s deadly raid on the Turkish ship Mavi Marmara… from agriculture to TV programming.)

8. Turkey access to Israel solves Middle East water wars – Syria won’t block pipes

(MidEastWeb is a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting peace and coexistence in the Middle East. 2002 Water In the Middle East Conflict http://www.mideastweb.org/water.htm)

(The third conclusion is that feasible peaceful… pipes would have to go through Syria.)



==Nuclearism Aff - Valley (vs. Blake MM)== 


Inherency 

For false reasons of deterrence, we keep TNWs in Turkey 

Bell and Loehrke 9 – manager at the Ploughshares Fund, Truman National Security Fellow, writer about U.S nuclear weapons in Turkey and research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund, graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey” 

For more than 40 years, [...] Washington is to its NATO allies. 


The United States federal government should remove its nuclear forces from the Republic of Turkey. 



“Tactical” nuclear weapons are a unique threat—through attempts to humanize and civilize them, they appear acceptable, even if they are world-enders. 

Chossudovsky, ‘08 
[Michel, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=8048 “The US-NATO Preemptive Nuclear Doctrine: Trigger a Middle East Nuclear Holocaust to Defend “The Western Way of Life”] 

Neither NATO nor the Pentagon use [...] generation of more useable nuclear weapons." 

Turkish TNW’s uniquely lower the threshold for nuclear war 

Perkovich ‘9 (George, May, “Extended Deterrence on the way to a nuclear free world” pg 15 http://www.icnnd.org/research/Perkovich_Deterrence.pdf) 

The discussion thus far relates to [...] greater the risks of nuclear conflict. 

Extinction is inevitable in the status quo. The constant threat of extinction through nuclear weapons will destroy deterrence and lead to war. 

Schell (Anti-nuclear advocate) 2k [Jonathan, The Fate of the Earth and the Abolition] 

Even to put this question, [...] attempt to protect their own countries. 

The status quo has routinized extinction—the ends and means of nuclearism are inseparable. 

Duane L. Cady (Hamline University, Minnesota) 1989 “From Warism to Pacifism” p. 48 

Thermonuclear exchange begins not with the [...] /intimidation/domination outcome achieved. 

AND, Specifically, Their authors are trapped in nuclearism—their impact claims only make sense within their paradigm – looking below the surface reveals that their claims are indefensible 

Cohn (Research Fellow, Center for psychological studies, Harvard) 1987 [Carol, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals,” Signs: Journal of Women and Culture in Society 12, n. 4, pp. 687-718] 

Much of their claim to legitimacy [...] for public debate about nuclear policy. 


Solvency 

Withdrawing nukes is best—we need to retract the security reasons for denying the Armenian genocide. Confronting this historical fact solves: 
- future genocides, 
- nuclear numbing, and 
- inevitable nuke war. 

Lifton & Markusen (Psychiatrist, John Jay College & PhD., Sociology, university. Of MN) 1990 [Robert Jay & Eric, The Genocidal Mentality] 

Leaders also play a role in [...] ethical requirements for confronting that threat. 

We engage because we need to fear the horrible potential of nuclear weapons. Our anti-nuclear instrumental action allows us to couple eco-safety with the terror of nukes—our only hope is to change the way students view the world 

Daniel L. Zins 93 (Associate Professor of Liberal Arts at the Atlanta College of Art and has published essays in College English, The Hollins Critic, Papers on Language and Literature, and elsewhere.) “Nuclear Education in the Post-Cold War Era” Children’s Literature Association. Volume 18, Number 3, Fall 1993. MUSE 

Is it time for nuclear age [...] the ominous problem of nuclear proliferation. 

We need to fully engage with the nuclear state—we have in-round solvency that specific approaches to nuclear politics are the only way to prevent extinction through nuclear fatalism. 

Daniel L. Zins 93 (Associate Professor of Liberal Arts at the Atlanta College of Art and has published essays in College English, The Hollins Critic, Papers on Language and Literature, and elsewhere.) “Nuclear Education in the Post-Cold War Era” Children’s Literature Association. Volume 18, Number 3, Fall 1993. MUSE 

For young people, an issue [...] a hasty closure to human history. 

The only way to avoid the inevitable nuclear and ecological extinction is our dual focus on the bomb and the environment. 

Daniel L. Zins 93 (Associate Professor of Liberal Arts at the Atlanta College of Art and has published essays in College English, The Hollins Critic, Papers on Language and Literature, and elsewhere.) “Nuclear Education in the Post-Cold War Era” Children’s Literature Association. Volume 18, Number 3, Fall 1993. MUSE 

"Human history," H. [...] that we occupy" (255). 

This dual approach is the only way to maintain nuclear education—conservatives will backlash at anything that doesn’t incorporate additional concerns 

Daniel L. Zins 93 (Associate Professor of Liberal Arts at the Atlanta College of Art and has published essays in College English, The Hollins Critic, Papers on Language and Literature, and elsewhere.) “Nuclear Education in the Post-Cold War Era” Children’s Literature Association. Volume 18, Number 3, Fall 1993. MUSE 

However misguided, distorted or unfair [...] , to nuclearism and militarism.3 

Reducing reliance is best—immediate abolition causes nuke war 

NYE (Harvard Professor) '86 [Joseph, Nuclear Ethics, p. 98] 

What is good for the long [...] American bishops introduce a useful distinction. 

Nuclearism is a universal; we solve though psychologically and physically intervene against its universality 

Piyush Mathur (Doctoral candidate in science and technology studies at Virginia Tech. His dissertation is on environmental communication) “Nuclearism: The Contours of a Political Ecology” Social Text 19.1 (2001) 1-18 MUSE. 

Insofar as Nandy refers to this [...] and producer of a treacherous universality. 

Nuclearism renders the weapons visible, but the method behind their use is obscured. We need to engage the tangible and material experiences of nuclearism by examining the local effects it 
As students affected in our everyday lives by nuclearist discourse, we can re-code nuclearism and de-mask the false apocalypses of the status quo. 

Joseph Masco 06, “Nuclear Borderlands: The Manhattan Project in Post-Cold War New Mexico”, pp. 4-5, accessed online at URL: http://press.princeton.edu/chapters/s8185.html 

The "unthinkability" of the [...] in the twenty-first century. 

The question of international political theory is secondary to the issue of the perspectives which inform the articulation of the theories- Our impact is simply Prior to their impact. 

Owen 02 (David, Reader on Political Theory at the University of Southampton, “Re-orienting International Relations: On Pragmatism, Pluralism and Practical Reasoning,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 31, No. 3, pp. 653-673) 

We can clarify the confusion with [...] of the recent IR theory wars. 

Our method is the most descriptive: the nuclear method is the only feasible starting point: status quo nukes totally define states. We need this starting point for any spillover, which the alt can’t access. 

Joseph Masco 06, “Nuclear Borderlands: The Manhattan Project in Post-Cold War New Mexico”, pp. 23-25, accessed online at URL: http://press.princeton.edu/chapters/s8185.html 

Nuclear weapons, as "impassioned [...] large extent, through the bomb. 





=Negative= 

==Fem/Gender== 


The aff’s understanding of international relations is profoundly gendered—it situates the state as the center of power relations and objectifies everything outside the blinders of predictive security discourse—this calls into question their entire political strategy
Ruiz 05 [Tricia Ruiz, CSU Hayward, “Feminist Theory and International Relations: The Feminist Challenge to Realism and Liberalism”, Soundings Journal, 2005, http://honors.csustan.edu/journals/Soundings.pdf] 

How do feminists use gender …. detrimental to, women 


The aff’s preoccupation with military presence is part of a larger project of crisis-based politics. War is not an event but rather a continual force that causes violence.
Cuomo 96 (Chris J. Hypatia, “War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday Violence”, Bloomington: Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Iss. 4; pg. 30) 

Philosophical attention to war has typically ... and communities during peacetime. 


The logic of patriarchy can only end in total 
Betty Reardon, Director of the Peace Education Program at Teacher's College Columbia University, 93, “Women and Peace: Feminist Visions of Global Security,” p. 30-2 

A clearly visible element …. in world politics. (Shelly 1983). 


It’s not enough to just add woment – vote negative to fundamentally alter the way we approach international relations
Laura Sjoberg, assistant prof of political science @ University of Florida, 2008, "The Norm of Tradition: Gender Subordination and Women's Exclusion in International Relations”, p. 177-178. 

If what is “traditional” is ….. world(s) in which we live” (1999, 37). 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]