[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**The United States has become the sovereign. The policy of assassinations and target killings is sheltered with denial of information for access and deaths of civilians.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0px;">Josh Meyer, 2006 (“CIA Expands Use of Drones in Terror War”, google, accessed 6/26/10)-WeyDespite protests from other countries, the United States... believes they are branching out to gain recruits, financing and influence.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0px;">**Warfare has evolved into the destruction of “targets” through the soldiers median of the computer screen creates an optical detachment that makes any kind of ethical relation to the silhouettes of people seen in-between crosshairs impossible**Gregory 2007 [Derek, Dept. of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, ‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely…’ Targets, civilians and late modern war, Arab World Geographer 9 (2007): 88-112//HS]//The second refinement of late modern war... those who have been injured and killed there.</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;"> **The United States federal government should end target killing and assassination forces in topic countries.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; letter-spacing: 0px; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;">**Target killings are the ultimate form of preemption. The threat isn’t specified. It can emerge at any moment. There is no reason for its hatred. These false claims force us to act like them in a hunt designed to antagonize threats to attack justified by what might have been.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Massumi 2007 (Brian, Massumi is currently teaching at <span style="font: 11px Georgia;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universit%C3%A9_de_Montr%C3%A9al|__Université de Montréal__]]</span>, in the Communication Sciences Department and in the Media and Communications division at European Graduate School in Saas-Fee. He received his <span style="font: 11px Georgia;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ph.D|__Ph.D__]]</span> in Philosophy from Yale University in 1987)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Deterrence does not work...and remains politically actuatable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**This sovereign targeting of bodies is the absolute face of violence. In the realm of preemption all actions are a justified should be or might have been while those not guilty are killed and the executioners praised. Politics is vaporized as precrime logic decides who lives and who dies in racist fashion that justifies slaughter of anyone denied the right to life.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, <span style="font: 11px Georgia;">[[http://fastcapitalism.com|__http://fastcapitalism.com__]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">At present, the time of the preemptive... the consensus of the preemptive in all its forms.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**Iraq, Kosovo, Bosnia and Afghanistan are only preview of wars justified in the name of humanitarian biopolitics. Because unending threats to the population must be neutralized, global biopolitics structurally necessitates nuclear annihilation.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster, UK and Julian Reid, Lecturer in International Relations at Kings College London, UK, and Professor of International Relations at the University of Lapland, Finland. The Liberal Way of War: Killing to Make Life Live. 2009. 30-3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">One way of expressing the core problematic that we pursue ...an infinity of securitization and fear.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**Vote affirmative to break the confines of pre-emption and the state’s control over the right to live or die. The alternative brings about new democratic norms that break out of pre-emption**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, <span style="font: 11px Georgia;">[[http://fastcapitalism.com/|__http://fastcapitalism.com/__]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Wrong. The fact remains that the victim of the London police... in disagreement with the preemptive is none other than but now.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px;">**The challenge to sovereign killing is a prerequisite to understand the devaluing of human life that is at the root of all war. The a priori ethical concern of our times is who decides who is valuable, who lives and who dies.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Williams, Kristian. "Good Grief."</span>
In These Times//. 19 Nov. 2009. Web. 02 July 2010. <<span style="font: 11px Georgia;">[[http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/5197/good_grief/|__http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/5197/good_grief/__]]</span>>. AD
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; margin: 0px; min-height: 12px; text-align: justify;">Whose life is worth... but it is so much worse when they happen to be correct.</span>
<span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; margin: 0px 0px 5px; min-height: 12px; text-align: justify;">**Violence sustains itself through a constant reiteration of sovereignty and control. A refusal to act enforces the realization that fueling the war machine cannot protect us, and endangers global populations who we are inevitably dependent on.**</span><span style="display: block; font: 11px/19px Georgia; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0px;">Judith Butler, professor of comparative literature at Berkeley, Frames of War. 2009. P. 178-4.State violence often articulates itself through... by which war is wrought time and again.</span></span>










=Negative= 

[[media type="custom" key="8380992"]]