[[toc]]

**More information is available [[2010-2011 — St. Mark's (TX) — Rishee Batra & Alex Miles|from the main page]].**

==1AC Korea - Greenhill== 

**<span class="Underline">Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground forces from the Republic of Korea. </span>**

**<span class="Underline">1AC Nuclearization Advantage</span>**

**<span class="Underline">U.S. troops don’t deter North Korea—military presence only prevents China and South Korea from stabilizing and de-nuclearizing the peninsula</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Erickson, 10** – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/, JMP)</span>
<span class="Underline">On the night of March 26 the South Korean 1,200-ton warship Cheonan patrolled the boundary waters between North and South Korea. At 10:45 an explosion near the bow rocked the vessel and sank the Cheonan, taking the lives of 46 crew members with it. Although the investigation is still ongoing, the South Korean Defense Minister has declared that a torpedo is the likeliest source of the blast. North Korea appears to have destroyed the South Korean warship.</span>
<span class="Underline">Normally such an unprovoked attack would start a war, but the Korean peninsula is not a normal place. The Koreans, with their strong sense of nationalism, remain divided along the 38th parallel, with a 2.5 mile “demilitarized zone” between them. Meanwhile approximately 28,000 US troops still help guard the border. An armistice formally ended hostilities in Korea in 1953, but officially the war never ended. No peace treaty was ever signed. One year ago, the North formally and ominously withdrew from the armistice.</span>
<span class="Underline">North Korea, a tiny country with the world’s 4th largest standing army, is the most militarized society in the world. It has a standing army of 1.2 million soldiers, and a peasant militia with as many as 4 million reserves. Some 13,000 artillery pieces, dug into the hills within range of the South Korean capital of Seoul, are poised to obliterate the South’s most important city upon “The Dear Leader’s” command. Some estimates suggest that as many as one million South Koreans could die under such an assault. Then there’s the matter of North Korea’s several nuclear weapons.</span>
<span class="Underline">South Korea, officially the “Republic of Korea,” has about half as many soldiers as the North, but they are better trained and far better equipped. South Korea is wealthy and technologically advanced. North Korea has half the population and 1/30th the economy of the South. While the rulers of the North live lavishly, famine killed a million people in the 1990s, and the United Nation’s World Food Program is worried that this year may witness the worst food shortages since then. Starving people can be dangerous people. Historically North Korea uses its military, its only strength, as leverage to obtain outside assistance.</span>
<span class="Underline">South Korea today might well be able to ultimately defend itself against the North, but the bloodshed would be horrific. A key factor in any future conflict is Seoul’s location so near the North. Experts suggest (See “Is Kim Jong-il Planning to Occupy Seoul?” ) that a recently revised North Korean military strategy consists of swiftly taking Seoul and holding the city’s millions of people as hostages.</span>
<span class="Underline">All of this begs a couple of important questions. How many more South Korean ships can be torpedoed before the South retaliates, surely starting a larger war? And, what are 28,000 American troops doing in the middle of this Korean powder keg? As the sinking of the Cheonan clearly indicates, the sparks are already flying.</span>
<span class="Underline">The permanent US military deployment in South Korea is a Cold War anachronism. There is absolutely no reason that a nation as advanced and prosperous as South Korea cannot defend itself from its pathetically backward northern brothers and sisters. A well-known night-time satellite image taken from space shows a brilliant South and a North languishing in the Dark Ages.</span>
<span class="Underline">The US presence creates political dysfunction while it minimally protects South Korea. US soldiers on South Korean soil breed resentment. Thousands of nationalist South Korean students regularly take to the streets to protest the Americans soldiers in their country and to call for unification between North and South.</span>
<span class="Underline">South Korean and US government policies are often awkwardly out of step with each other, with America often having the far more hawkish posture, as it did during the W. Bush years. American security guarantees have perhaps sometimes led the government of the South to engage in policies of inappropriate appeasement toward the North.</span>
<span class="Underline">The threat of South Korea investing in nuclear weapons to counter the North might, for example, finally persuade China to put sufficient pressure of North Korea. A South Korea determined to match North Korean nuclear weapons development might paradoxically further the goal of a nuclear-free Korean peninsula.</span>
<span class="Underline">Most crucially, from an American point of view, the US Army is stretched too thin to play much of a role in protecting South Korea. As things stand, American soldiers are little more than targets for North Korean artillery and missiles. A defense of Seoul, its re-conquest, and forcible regime change in the North are all beyond US military capabilities at this time, given its commitments elsewhere. US participation on the ground in a new Korean War would also stress the US federal budget beyond the breaking point.</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States never properly created a new foreign and defense policy when the Cold War ended. Instead, it has generally maintained its Cold War military posture, with bases and commitments strewn throughout the globe, even as new challenges since 911 have called American forces to new missions. The US military presence in Korea is a Cold War artifact that needs to be brought home before it’s too late.</span>

**<span class="Underline">The plan is the vital concession for Chinese co-operation on North Korea – also resolves territorial disputes and prevents decline in relations</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Carpenter 10**—vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, 3 August 2010, China Spats, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778, RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">Relations between China and the United States have become decidedly testy in recent weeks. Sharp disagreements over policy toward North Korea and the status of disputed islands in the South China Sea especially have raised tensions.</span>
<span class="Underline">The spat regarding North Korea erupted in the aftermath of the sinking of the South Korean naval vessel Cheonan. Obama administration officials were surprised and disappointed at China's reaction. U.S. policy makers were already annoyed at Beijing's long-standing reluctance to pressure its ally regarding its provocative nuclear program. But China's failure to condemn Pyongyang's rogue behavior in the Cheonan episode was seen as inexcusable.</span>
<span class="Underline">Nevertheless, the Chinese government did not waver in its support of North Korea. Beijing insisted that the UN Security Council resolution condemning the Cheonan sinking not name Pyongyang as the perpetrator. Washington reluctantly accepted such language rather than risk a Chinese veto, but U.S. officials were not happy, and they publicly criticized China's stance.</span>
<span class="Underline">While that dispute was flaring, tensions erupted regarding the South China Sea. At an ASEAN Regional Forum meeting in Hanoi, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton asserted that “the United States has a national interest in freedom of navigation, open access to Asia's maritime commons, and respect for international law in the South China Sea.” She went on to advocate a binding code of conduct for the various nations, including China, that make claims to disputed islands in that body of water. Clinton also proposed the development of an institutional process for resolving those disputes, and indicated that the United States wanted to participate in that process.</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing's reaction was swift and hostile. Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi portrayed Clinton's remarks as “an attack” on China. Questioning Washington's sincerity on the issue, he stated that “nobody believes there's anything threatening the region's peace and stability.” Finally, Chinese leaders made it very clear that they believed the United States had no legitimate role to play in resolving competing territorial claims in the South China Sea.</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing's uncooperative attitude has played into the hands of hawks in the United States. Writing in the pages of the Wall Street Journal, American Enterprise Institute scholar Daniel Blumenthal praised Clinton for standing up “to China's bullying.” But he regarded such surprising fortitude merely as a good beginning. He went on to propose that the United States orchestrate a de facto diplomatic and military containment policy against Beijing.</span>
<span class="Underline">China's behavior has become a matter of understandable concern. But the United States must pick its battles in terms of taking hard-line stances. We can't prevail on every issue. Many of the same experts and pundits who want the Obama administration to adopt an uncompromising attitude on territorial claims and navigation rights in the South China Sea and pressure China regarding its lack of effective help regarding North Korea also want Washington to confront Beijing on such matters as Taiwan, China's currency valuation, the treatment of domestic dissidents and the status of Tibet. There is a marked unwillingness to set priorities.</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing's failure to rein in an increasingly reckless Pyongyang is a legitimate security issue for the United States. So too are China's breathtakingly broad claims in the South China Sea. China regards virtually that entire sea as its territorial waters—something that, if enforced, would have profound implications for international navigation and commerce. As the world's leading maritime and trading power, the United States cannot tamely accept such a brazen attempt to change the status of international waters through which much of the world's commerce flows.</span>
<span class="Underline">But even on those issues, Washington needs to understand that some concessions may need to be made to secure Chinese cooperation. It is unrealistic to expect, for example, that China will incur the risks involved in pressuring North Korea if the United States offers nothing in return. Beijing worries that coercing Pyongyang could cause Kim Jong-il's regime to unravel—perhaps even cause the North Korean state itself to implode, much as East Germany did at the end of the 1980s. That development would produce massive refugee flows into China, and possibly result in the emergence of a united Korea closely allied to the United States and with a U.S. military presence on the peninsula.</span>
<span class="Underline">If we want China to take on serious risks to tame North Korea, we have to offer some incentives. Promising to assist Beijing in dealing with the probable refugee problem would seem to be the absolute minimum. In all likelihood, Chinese leaders would also want a commitment to phase out American military bases in Korea if the North Korean threat were neutralized. Yet Washington has not offered the slightest hint of concessions on either issue. U.S. officials implicitly expect Beijing to accept the risks entailed in getting tough with Pyongyang but receive nothing at all in return.</span>

**<span class="Underline">This is key to overall Chinese relations</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Bandow 9** (Spring, Doug, “A New Approach to Counter Nuclear Proliferation on the Korean Peninsula,” International Journal of Korean Studies, p55-83,http://www.icks.org/publication/pdf/2009-SPRING-SUMMER/4.pdf, DA 9/1, MaT)</span>
<span class="Underline">But American engagement may not be enough. The PRC could play a particularly important role in dissuading the North from its nuclear course. Indeed, H.D.S. Greenway of the Boston Globe has advocated building on "the new climate of U.S.-Chinese cooperation of late." 94 Such a strategy would offer at least one additional benefit. Working together to defuse the North Korean nuclear crisis successfully would make it easier to resolve other disputes between Washington and Beijing, thereby laying the groundwork for a wide-ranging partnership in the years and decades ahead. Nevertheless, the most important and immediate goal remains halting nuclear proliferation in Northeast Asia. </span>

**<span class="Underline">U.S.-China relations solve every scenario for extinction—economic decline, global insecurity, warming, prolif, and terrorism are all inevitable without significant bilateral co-operation</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Cohen 9** (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef) </span>
<span class="Underline">The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over the next months, years, and decades has the potential to have a greater impact on global security and prosperity than any other bilateral or multilateral arrangement. In this sense, many analysts consider the US.-China diplomatic relationship to be the most influential in the world. Without question, strong and stable U.S. alliances provide the foundation for the protection and promotion of U.S. and global interests. Yet within that broad framework, the trajectory of U.S.-China relations will determine the success, or failure, of efforts to address the toughest global challenges: global financial stability, energy security and climate change, nonproliferation, and terrorism, among other pressing issues. Shepherding that trajectory in the most constructive direction possible must therefore be a priority for Washington and Beijing. Virtually no major global challenge can be met without U.S.-China cooperation. The uncertainty of that future trajectory and the "strategic mistrust" between leaders in Washington and Beijing necessarily concerns many experts and policymakers in both countries. Although some U.S. analysts see China as a strategic competitor—deliberately vying with the United States for energy resources, military superiority, and international political influence alike— analysis by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) has generally found that China uses its soft power to pursue its own, largely economic, international agenda primarily to achieve its domestic objectives of economic growth and social stability.1 Although Beijing certainly has an eye on Washington, not all of its actions are undertaken as a counterpoint to the United States. In addition, CSIS research suggests that growing Chinese soft power in developing countries may have influenced recent U.S. decisions to engage more actively and reinvest in soft-power tools that have atrophied during the past decade. To the extent that there exists a competition between the United States and China, therefore, it may be mobilizing both countries to strengthen their ability to solve global problems. To be sure, U.S. and Chinese policy decisions toward the respective other power will be determined in large part by the choices that leaders make about their own nations interests at home and overseas, which in turn are shaped by their respective domestic contexts. Both parties must recognize—and accept—that the other will pursue a foreign policy approach that is in its own national interest. Yet, in a globalized world, challenges are increasingly transnational, and so too must be their solutions. As demonstrated by the rapid spread of SARS from China in 2003, pandemic flu can be spread rapidly through air and via international travel. Dust particulates from Asia settle in Lake Tahoe. An economic downturn in one country can and does trigger an economic slowdown in another. These challenges can no longer be addressed by either containment or isolation. What constitutes the national interest today necessarily encompasses a broader and more complex set of considerations than it did in the past As a general principle, the United States seeks to promote its national interest while it simultaneously pursues what the CSIS Commission on Smart Power called in its November 2007 report the "global good."3 This approach is not always practical or achievable, of course. But neither is it pure benevolence. Instead, a strategic pursuit of the global good accrues concrete benefits for the United States (and others) in the form of building confidence, legitimacy, and political influence in key countries and regions around the world in ways that enable the United States to better confront global and transnational challenges. In short, the global good comprises those things that all people and governments want but have traditionally not been able to attain in the absence of U.S. leadership. Despite historical, cultural, and political differences between the United States and China, Beijing's newfound ability, owing to its recent economic successes, to contribute to the global good is a matter for common ground between the two countries. Today there is increasing recognition that no major global challenge can be addressed effectively, much less resolved, without the active engagement of—and cooperation between—the United States and China. The United States and China—the worlds first- and third-largest economies—are inextricably linked, a fact made ever more evident in the midst of the current global financial crisis. Weak demand in both the United States and China, previously the twin engines of global growth, has contributed to the global economic downturn and threatens to ignite simmering trade tensions between the two countries. Nowhere is the interconnectedness of the United States and China more clear than in international finance. China has $2 trillion worth of largely U.S. dollar-denominated foreign exchange reserves and is the world's largest holder—by far—of U.S. government debt. Former treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson and others have suggested that the structural imbalances created by this dynamic fueled the current economic crisis. Yet. China will almost certainly be called on to purchase the lion's share of new U.S. debt instruments issued in connection with the U.S. stimulus and recovery package. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's February 23.2009, reassurance to Beijing that U.S. markets remain safe and her call for continued Chinese investment in the U.S. bond market as a means to help both countries, and the world, emerge from global recession underscored the shared interest—and central role—that both countries have in turning around the global economy quickly. Although China's considerable holdings of U.S. debt have been seen as a troubling problem, they are now being perceived as a necessary part of a global solution. Similarly, as the worlds two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, China and the United States share not only the collateral damage of energy-inefficient economic growth, but a primary responsibility to shape any ultimate global solutions to climate change. To date, cooperation has been elusive, owing as much to Washington's reluctance as to Beijing's intransigence. Painting China as the environmental bogeyman as an excuse for foot-dragging in policymaking is no longer an option; for its part, China, as the world's top polluter, must cease playing the developing-economy card. Yet energy security and climate change remain an area of genuine opportunity for joint achievement. Indeed, U.S.-China cooperation in this field is a sine qua non of any response to the energy and climate challenges. The sheer size of the Chinese economy means that collaboration with the United States could set the de facto global standards for etficiency and emissions in key economic sectors such as industry and transportation. Climate change also provides an area for cooperation in previously uncharted policy waters, as in emerging Arctic navigational and energy exploration opportunities. Washington and Beijing also share a deep and urgent interest in international peace and stability. The resumption of U.S.-China military contacts is a positive development. As two nuclear powers with worldwide economic and strategic interests, both countries want to minimize instability and enhance maritime security, as seen by parallel antipiracy missions in the waters otT Somalia. Joint efforts in support of United Nations peacekeeping, nonproliferation, and counterterrorism offer critical areas for bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Certainly, regional and global security institutions such as the Six-Party Talks concerning North Korea or the UN Security Council require the active engagement of both Washington and Beijing. Even more broadly, crisis management in geographic regions of mutual strategic interest like the Korean peninsula, Iran, or Burma require much more Sino-U.S. communication if the two countries are to avoid miscalculation and maximize opportunities to minimize human sutfering. Increasing the number of mid-level military-to-military exchanges would help in this regard. The United States and China could do more to cooperate on law enforcement to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in Western China. Afghanistan is competing with Burma as the main provider of narcotics to China; Washington could use its influence with the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul to develop a joint antinarcotics program. This could potentially build networks and joint capabilities that might be useful for U.S.-China cooperation on the issue of Pakistan. In addition, Washington should also encourage NATO-China cooperation along the Afghan border. Collaborating under the auspices of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) might provide an additional framework for Beijing and Washington to address Central Asian security issues in a cooperative manner. 1he SCO, which includes Pakistan as an observer and will convene a multinational conference on Afghanistan in March 2009, has long made curbing narcoterrorism in Afghanistan a priority. In addition, the VS. Drug Enforcement Agency and the Chinese Anti-Narcotics Bureau should expand cooperation on interdiction and prosecution of heroin and meth traffickers. To be sure, there are a number of areas of serious divergence between Washington and Beijing. This should surprise no one. The United States has disagreements with even its allies. Two large powers with vastly dilferent histories, cultures, and political systems are bound to have challenges. History has shown, however, that the most effective way of addressing issues is for the U.S. and Chinese governments to engage in quiet diplomacy rather than public recrimination. In the U.S.-China context, there is often little to be gained—and much to be lost in terms of trust and respect—by a polarizing debate. Any differences, moreover, must not necessarily impede Sino-U.S. cooperation when both sides share strong mutual interests. I;. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that "the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function."3 Effective policy toward China by the United States, and vice versa, will require this kind of dual-minded intelligence. Moreover, working together on areas of mutual and global interest will help promote strategic trust between China and the United States, facilitating possible cooperation in other areas. Even limited cooperation on specific areas will help construct additional mechanisms for bilateral communication on issues of irreconcilable disagreement. In fact, many of the toughest challenges in U.S.-China relations in recent years have been the result of unforeseen events, such as the accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in May 1999 and the EP-3 reconnaissance plane collision in April 2001. Building trust and finding workable solutions to tough problems is the premise behind the Obama administrations foreign policy of smart power, as articulated by Secretary of State Clinton. Smart power is based on, as Secretary Clinton outlined in her confirmation hearing, the fundamental belief that 'We must use... the full range of tools at our disposal—diplomatic, economic, military, political and cultural—picking the right tool, or combination of tools, for each situation."' As the CS1S Commission on Smart Power noted in November 2007, "Smart Power is neither hard nor soft—it is the skillful combination of bothIt is an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships and institutions at all levels... .°5 As such, smart power necessarily mandates a major investment in a U.S.-China partnership on key issues. 'The concept enjoys broad support among the Chinese and American people and, by promoting the global good, it reaps concrete results around the world. There should be no expectation that Washington and Beijing will or should agree on all, or even most, questions. But the American and Chinese people should expect their leaders to come together on those vital issues that require their cooperation. U.S.-China partnership, though not inevitable, is indispensable.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Lack of Chinese leadership and cooperation encourages North Korean aggression and guarantees that miscalculation escalates—it’s a pre-requisite to denuclearization and a stable peace</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Economist 10** (27 May 2010, The nightmare scenario, http://www.economist.com/node/16216482?story_id=16216482, RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">DID the warped Machiavellians of Pyongyang miscalculate when they launched the torpedo that blew apart a South Korean warship two months ago? Proof of one of the worst breaches of the armistice that ended the Korean war 57 years ago has roiled waters far beyond the Korean peninsula. Escalating tensions have even helped rattle global financial markets. Thus far, North Korea’s reckless belligerence has mostly been met with an impressive show of resolve by South Korea, Japan and America. But North Korea could yet raise the stakes again. Time for all of North Korea’s neighbours to start thinking of how they might together deal with some of the unthinkables they have hitherto tried hard to ignore (see article).</span>
<span class="Underline">South Korea has responded vigorously to the results of an international investigation that proved North Korea sank the Cheonan, killing 46 sailors. It has slapped on trade sanctions, closed its waters to North Korean ships and resumed a long abandoned propaganda blitz across the border. The measures, designed to squeeze the regime of Kim Jong Il without giving it an excuse to retaliate, demonstrate a welcome coolness and steeliness in South Korea’s president, Lee Myung-bak. Shrewdly, he has mostly let the facts themselves call for censure of the Kim regime by the United Nations Security Council. He has the full support of President Barack Obama, who has stood America’s military might behind South Korea.</span>
<span class="Underline">But Mr Kim is no pushover. He has matched South Korea’s moves with his own. And there is still a risk that he will follow up with more provocations. This would test South Korea’s nerve, not least if there are more financial tremors that jeopardise the country’s economic stability. Mr Lee needs to maintain the calm determination he has shown so far. When dealing with extortionists like those in North Korea, it is better in the long run to show strength not weakness.</span>
<span class="Underline">It is China that has come out of the affair looking pusillanimous. Pressed by Hillary Clinton, America’s secretary of state, to chastise North Korea, in public Chinese officials avoided even mentioning the attack on the Cheonan and merely called for restraint on all sides (see article). They presumably fear jeopardising the stability of their renegade ally. But that is not just feeble, it is silly. Letting Mr Kim get away with this outrage will only tempt him to try more.</span>
<span class="Underline">What if…</span>
<span class="Underline">If China cannot have a grown-up discussion with America about something as clear-cut as the attack on the Cheonan, how much greater will be the danger of miscommunication in the event of something hitherto unthinkable happening: an outbreak of war, say, a nuclear incident, or the collapse of the regime. Anything that sparked fears of “loose nukes” or a refugee crisis, with American and Chinese troops aiming nervously at each other across North Korean territory, could quickly make the Korean peninsula the most dangerous place on earth. China ignores such risks at its peril.</span>
<span class="Underline">Of course neither a conflagration nor an end to the regime may be round the corner. Despite a suspected stroke in 2008, Mr Kim has tightened his political grip. His power does not appear to have been shaken even by a disastrous currency reform late last year that further impoverished hard-pressed North Koreans. He has used the Cheonan affair to stir up nationalism at home, by thundering about the threat of invasion.</span>
<span class="Underline">But the Dear Leader is not immortal, and when he dies the succession is likely to be fraught with danger. At that point the neighbouring powers will desperately need to talk to each other through mechanisms that currently barely exist.</span>
<span class="Underline">Each has had its own reason to look the other way. South Korea is loth to contemplate a breakdown in the north because of the cost of unification, given a disparity in living standards that is far greater than newly united Germany had to cope with. America is distracted by Afghanistan and other hotspots. China is too concerned about maintaining the figleaf of stability on its north-eastern flank to discuss the frailty of the regime. Instead all three countries, along with Japan and Russia, have focused their attention on the denuclearisation of North Korea in six-party talks which Mr Kim has used to squeeze money out of all five in exchange only for broken promises.</span>
<span class="Underline">But the Cheonan must surely change that. For the only predictable thing about the Kim regime is its unpredictability. Planning for the other contingencies that might be in store will be difficult. Done publicly, it could encourage Mr Kim to lash out even more aggressively. But one way or another it needs to involve all five powers with a stake in North Korea’s future; no one should feel left out. There are pressing practical issues, such as how to control refugee flows and whose special forces—China’s or America’s—might secure North Korean nuclear weapons in the event of the regime’s collapse. These discussions could lead on to more sensitive ones, such as whether the peninsula should be reunified, or North Korea made into a buffer as a UN protectorate of some sort.</span>
<span class="Underline">Before any of that can happen, China needs to recognise the dangers of doing nothing. If the Cheonan incident helps its leaders do that, the 46 sailors will not have died in vain.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Failure to de-nuclearize North Korea guarantees nuclear conflict – causes global famine and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean** of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community.</span>
<span class="Underline">At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions.</span>
<span class="Underline">But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: </span>
<span class="Underline">That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4</span>
<span class="Underline">These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span>

**<span class="Underline">Makes nuclear proliferation throughout Asia inevitable—guarantees nuclear conflict</span>**
**Cimbala, 10 -** Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)
<span class="Underline">Failure to contain proliferation in Pyongyang could spread nuclear fever throughout Asia. Japan and South Korea might seek nuclear weapons and missile defenses. A pentagonal configuration of nuclear powers in the Pacific basis (Russia, China, Japan, and the two Koreas – not including the United States, with its own Pacific interests) could put deterrence at risk and create enormous temptation toward nuclear preemption. Apart from actual use or threat of use, North Korea could exploit the mere existence of an assumed nuclear capability in order to support its coercive diplomacy. As George H. Quester has noted:</span>
<span class="Underline">If the Pyongyang regime plays its cards sensibly and well, therefore, the world will not see its nuclear weapons being used against Japan or South Korea or anyone else, but will rather see this new nuclear arsenal held in reserve (just as the putative Israeli nuclear arsenal has been held in reserve), as a deterrent against the outside world’s applying maximal pressure on Pyongyang and as a bargaining chip to extract the economic and political concessions that the DPRK needs if it wishes to avoid giving up its peculiar approach to social engineering.</span>
<span class="Underline">A five-sided nuclear competition in the Pacific would be linked, in geopolitical deterrence and proliferation space, to the existing nuclear deterrents in India and Pakistan, and to the emerging nuclear weapons status of Iran. An arc of nuclear instability from Tehran to Tokyo could place U.S. proliferation strategies into the ash heap of history and call for more drastic military options, not excluding preemptive war, defenses, and counter-deterrent special operations. In addition, an eight-sided nuclear arms race in Asia would increase the likelihood of accidental or inadvertent nuclear war. It would do so because: (1) some of these states already have histories of protracted conflict; (2) states may have politically unreliable or immature command and control systems, especially during a crisis involving a decision for nuclear first strike or retaliation; unreliable or immature systems might permit a technical malfunction that caused an unintended launch, or a deliberate but unauthorized launch by rogue commanders; (3) faulty intelligence and warning systems might cause one side to misinterpret the other’s defensive moves to forestall attack as offensive preparations for attack, thus triggering a mistaken preemption.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Asia is the most probable scenario for escalation </span>**
**Tellis 4—**Senior Associate at Carnegie. PhD from U Chicago. Served in the U.S. Department of State as Senior Advisor to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, and briefly on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Strategic Planning and Southwest Asia (Ashley, Assessing America’s War on Terror: Confronting Insurgency, Cementing Primacy, December 2004, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf, AMiles) 
<span class="Underline">One analyst, Gaurav Kampani, summarized the problem arrestingly: Three out of the world’s four remaining states suspected of possessing chemical weapons are in Asia, and all of the states with biological weapons programs are Asian as well. Similarly, five of the current eight nuclear weapon powers are located on the continent, which is also home to the two other countries widely suspected of pursuing nuclear weapons programs—North Korea and Iran. The intersection of mass destruction capabilities and the rise of religious extremism, political disaffection, economic disarray, and deep interstate and intrastate conflicts make Asia the most disaster- prone region in the world.89 </span>

**<span class="Underline">1AC China War</span>**


**<span class="Underline">Tensions with China are running hot – risks deliberate and miscalculated conflict</span>**
**Yuan 10 –** Associate Professor at the Center for International Security Studies in Sydney, Australia (Jingdong, August 20, 2010, Asia Times, Deep Reasons for China and US to bristle, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LH20Ad01.html, RBond)
<span class="Underline">China's strong reaction to the United States' call for multilateral negotiation to resolve territorial disputes in the South China Sea fits the rising tide of tensions between Beijing and Washington over a number of issues. </span>
<span class="Underline">Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi stated that interventions last month from US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton suggested the US was ganging with other countries in the region against China. Chinese analysts also point to US-South Korea military exercises staged in the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan as nothing but provocation and infringements of China's maritime interests. </span>
<span class="Underline">However, beneath the public exchanges are deeper reasons for the apparently more assertive and even confrontational posture being adopted by both sides. For the United States, China's continuing economic rise and growing military power pose serious challenges, both to its predominance in Asia and its ability to deal with global issues ranging from nuclear non-proliferation to climate change. China's economy seems on a roll compared with a stagnant US economy, where unemployment has remained unacceptably high since the financial crisis started two years. China is on target to replace Japan as the world's second-largest economy. </span>
<span class="Underline">Military modernization also marches on in China, with a focus on a strategy of anti-access and area-denial that could seriously threaten the ability of the US navy to gain access to the region. A report released this week by the Pentagon points to Chinese procurement and deployment of anti-ship ballistic and cruise missiles, new submarines and surface ships, and asymmetrical capabilities such as cyber warfare. </span>
<span class="Underline">Washington is concerned that growing economic power and military capabilities could embolden the Chinese leadership to take a more assertive line in foreign policy and become less willing to cooperate with the international community on issues where China's role is critical. At the same time, such a role also requires Beijing to sacrifice its own interests for the larger public good, including measures to deal with climate change and Iran's nuclear program. </span>
<span class="Underline">Of particular concern is what Washington views as China's deliberate efforts to nudge the US out of Asia. Chinese assertions that the South China Sea is one of its core interests on a par with Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang indicates that Beijing will no longer tolerate foreign meddling on the territorial issue and could strong-arm other parties to the dispute into submission on its own terms.</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing has equal, if not greater, grievance against US actions that it considers detrimental to Chinese national interests. The arms sales and President Barack Obama's meeting with the Dalai Lama are viewed as continued American interference in China's domestic affairs. </span>
<span class="Underline">On the Taiwan issue in particular, cross-strait relations have been relatively stable ever since Ma Ying-jeou took the president's office in Taipei. Bilateral economic ties have continued to deepen and the two sides have recently signed the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement (ECFA) that would further facilitate bilateral economic interactions. Cross-strait ties have also been strengthened through direct flights and educational and tourist agreements. Under such circumstances, US arms sales touched off strong reactions from Beijing. </span>
<span class="Underline">Chinese analysts argue recent US policy shift toward Asia is aimed at constraining and even containing China's rise and influence in the region. US calls for resolving maritime disputes in the South China Sea are interpreted by Beijing as deliberate attempts to draw some of the parties to the dispute into US embrace for the latter's strategic objective of reasserting dominance after a period of neglect. </span>
<span class="Underline">An indication of this strategy is reflected in the apparently warming ties between Washington and Hanoi. The two countries recently marked their 15th anniversary of diplomatic relations with joint naval exercises involving the USS John McCain. What is most significant is the reported US-Vietnam negotiation of nuclear cooperation where the US would allow Vietnam to enrich uranium.</span>
<span class="Underline">US-South Korean naval exercises in the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan, which included the participation of the aircraft carrier USS George Washington and ostensibly as a show of resolve and response to North Korea's alleged sinking of the South Korean ship the Cheonan, are viewed by Chinese analysts as a provocation. Added to this was the new US-ROK ''2+2'' meeting held in Seoul that involve the two countries' foreign and defense ministers. The signal is not lost to Beijing: Washington's efforts to strengthen military alliances in the region are aimed at reasserting US dominance and containing China's influence. Underlying the growing tension and maneuvering is the lack of mutual trust and in-depth strategic communication. This has left much room for mutual suspicion, misapprehension, and even miscalculation. And this is taking place at a time the US is seeking to reassert its primacy in Asia while China is trying to claim what it views its rightful place in the region. The contest could put East Asia's stability and prosperity at great peril to the detriment of all involved. </span>
<span class="Underline">Clearly, managing the changing Sino-US relations is a critical task for leaders and strategists in both countries. However, differences in perceptions and interests, coupled with domestic politics in China and the United States, make such a task at once difficult and imperative. Obama needs to assert himself and dispel the notion that he is weak and too accommodative on foreign policy issues. In China, the pending leadership transition also raises the stakes for contenders to appear firm on issues vital to China's core interests. </span>
<span class="Underline">It is not inevitable that the two countries are destined on a slippery slide to confrontation. After all, too much is at stake and neither power can afford another cold war in the 21st century. However, such recognition is hardly a guarantee that future conflicts can be avoided. Much depends on whether cooler heads will prevail in Beijing and Washington even if they have to live with a strategic rivalry for decades to come.</span>


**<span class="Underline">Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence risks superpower conflict </span>**
**Emmott, 10** – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece, JMP)
<span class="Underline">It is time to worry rather more, by focusing instead on China and its policy towards North Korea. For what China’s reaction should tell us is that China’s interests in the Korean Peninsula are different from those of the West, of South Korea or of Japan. And in that divergence of interest lies danger: it makes North Korea the likeliest flashpoint for a potential conflict between China and America.</span>
<span class="Underline">On other issues, the Chinese leadership is widely lauded for its fast and effective decision making — on bulldozing old city centres, for example, or building motorways and power stations, or giving aid to African governments in return for mining rights. Far better than those fusty old democracies, mutter the admirers. So why, we should all be asking, are they so slow to make up their minds about North Korea and its acts and threats of war?</span>
<span class="Underline">The official line is that China is concerned about stability in North Korea and fears a huge influx of refugees across its long border with that country if Mr Kim’s regime should collapse. A further line, peddled more quietly by Chinese officials, is that China doesn’t really have much influence over those strange, unpredictable Koreans. So all it can do is take part in the six-party talks over North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, an on-off exercise that gathers together America, China, Japan, Russia and the two Koreas, urge everyone to show restraint, and hope for the best.</span>
<span class="Underline">This line, always pretty thin, is looking ever thinner. The idea that Chinese security forces would not be capable of crowd control in the border region beggars belief. Dealing with refugees might be awkward, and even costly, but as a reason for tolerating military adventurism it is simply not credible. Nor is the notion of Chinese impotence: most of North Korea’s trade is with China, most of its oil supply comes from there, and virtually the only foreign companies in North Korea are Chinese. It would be pretty easy for China to “keep its boot on Kim’s neck”, as Americans like to say these days.</span>
<span class="Underline">So why doesn’t it? The answer, surely, must be that China prefers to keep North Korea the way it is. Strategically, it provides a buffer against Japan and averts the prospect of a troublesome and eventually powerful unified Korea in the future. This has been the case ever since Mao Zedong sent in Chinese troops to rescue the North during the Korean War of 1950-53. This preference would not matter much as long as the North Korean regime looked basically stable and was a danger principally to its own people. But this is no longer the case.</span>
<span class="Underline">Imagine what could happen when Kim Jong Il dies — which, being 68 and unhealthy, he might suddenly do. Suppose there is a struggle over the succession, one that could turn bloody, given that North Korea is said to be the world’s most militarised society. America, well aware that North Korea has about half a dozen nuclear warheads, will feel an urgent need to send troops in to seize nuclear materials. South Korea will, like Helmut Kohl in 1989, feel an urgent, historic need to ignore the huge costs and push for unification: the North is family, after all.</span>
<span class="Underline">And China? My guess is that it would send its troops to the border, and probably across it, “in the interests of stability”, but actually to keep North Korea independent and under Chinese tutelage. The stage would thus be set for the first 21st-century confrontation between two superpowers.</span>
<span class="Underline">This is one of the biggest risks facing the world. To reduce it, China needs to be engaged in open dialogue about North Korea, its behaviour and, above all, its future. It may not be seemly to discuss what to do when a regime collapses, especially one of an ally, but that is increasingly necessary in the case of the Kim dynasty.</span>
<span class="Underline">Communication between the Chinese and American militaries remains patchy, with efforts to set up hotlines and the like slow to come to fruition. The chances of a misunderstanding in a moment of tension are high. Communication between the political leaderships is better, if still very stilted. The Cheonan sinking could be the last chance to force China to face up to the fact that its North Korean dependant is not just embarrassing but dangerous, to force it to discuss the future of the Korean Peninsula, to force it to join the 21st century rather than staying stuck in the 1950s. Unless that happens, next time it could really be war. </span>
<span class="Underline">Military presence is aimed at containing China—causes a self-fulfilling prophecy that guarantees war in Asia</span>
Klare 6—professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 2006 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]
<span class="Underline">Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives has been a vigorous, if largely unheralded, effort by the Department of Defense (DoD) to bolster US military capabilities in the Asia-Pacific region. The broad sweep of US strategy was first spelled out in the Pentagon's most recent policy assessment, the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), released on February 5. In discussing long-term threats to US security, the QDR begins with a reaffirmation of the overarching precept first articulated in the DPG of 1992: that the United States will not allow the rise of a competing superpower. This country "will attempt to dissuade any military competitor from developing disruptive or other capabilities that could enable regional hegemony or hostile action against the United States", the document states. It then identifies China as the most likely and dangerous competitor of this sort. "Of the major and emerging powers, China has the greatest potential to compete militarily with the United States and field disruptive military technologies that could over time offset traditional US military advantages" - then adding the kicker - "absent US counter-strategies." According to the Pentagon, the task of countering future Chinese military capabilities largely entails the development, and then procurement, of major weapons systems that would ensure US success in any full-scale military confrontation. "The United States will develop capabilities that would present any adversary with complex and multidimensional challenges and complicate its offensive planning efforts," the QDR explains. These include the steady enhancement of such "enduring US advantages" as "long-range strike, stealth, operational maneuver and sustainment of air, sea and ground forces at strategic distances, air dominance, and undersea warfare". Preparing for war with China, in other words, is to be the future cash cow for the giant US weapons-making corporations in the military-industrial complex. It will, for instance, be the primary justification for the acquisition of costly new weapons systems such as the F-22A Raptor fighter, the multi-service Joint Strike Fighter, the DDX destroyer, the Virginia-class nuclear attack submarine, and a new intercontinental penetrating bomber - weapons that would just have utility in an all-out encounter with another great-power adversary of a sort that only China might someday become. In addition to these weapons programs, the QDR also calls for a stiffening of present US combat forces in Asia and the Pacific, with a particular emphasis on the US Navy (the arm of the military least used in the ongoing occupation of and war in Iraq). "The fleet will have a greater presence in the Pacific Ocean," the document notes. To achieve this, "The navy plans to adjust its force posture and basing to provide at least six operationally available and sustainable [aircraft] carriers and 60% of its submarines in the Pacific to support engagement, presence and deterrence." Since each of these carriers is, in fact, but the core of a large array of support ships and protective aircraft, this move is sure to entail a truly vast buildup of US naval capabilities in the Western Pacific and will certainly necessitate a substantial expansion of the US basing complex in the region - a requirement that is already receiving close attention from Admiral Fallon and his staff at PACOM. To assess the operational demands of this buildup, moreover, this summer the US Navy will conduct its most extensive military maneuvers in the Western Pacific since the end of the Vietnam War, with four aircraft-carrier battle groups and many support ships expected to participate. Add all of this together, and the resulting strategy cannot be viewed as anything but a systematic campaign of containment. No high administration official may say this in so many words, but it is impossible to interpret the recent moves of Rice and Rumsfeld in any other manner. From Beijing's perspective, the reality must be unmistakable: a steady buildup of US military power along China's eastern, southern and western boundaries. How will China respond to this threat? For now, it appears to be relying on charm and the conspicuous blandishment of economic benefits to loosen Australian, South Korean, and even Indian ties with the United States. To a certain extent, this strategy is meeting with success, as these countries seek to profit from the extraordinary economic boom now under way in China - fueled to a considerable extent by oil, gas, iron, timber, and other materials supplied by China's neighbors in Asia. A version of this strategy is also being employed by President Hu Jintao during his current visit to the United States. As China's money is sprinkled liberally among such influential firms as Boeing and Microsoft, Hu is reminding the corporate wing of the Republican Party that there are vast economic benefits still to be had by pursuing a non-threatening stance toward China. China, however, has always responded to perceived threats of encirclement in a vigorous and muscular fashion as well, and so we should assume that Beijing will balance all that charm with a military buildup of its own. Such a drive will not bring China to the brink of military equality with the United States - that is not a condition it can realistically aspire to over the next few decades. But it will provide further justification for those in the United States who seek to accelerate the containment of China, and so will produce a self-fulfilling loop of distrust, competition and crisis. This will make the amicable long-term settlement of the Taiwan problem and of North Korea's nuclear program that much more difficult, and increase the risk of unintended escalation to full-scale war in Asia. There can be no victors from such a conflagration.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Escalation is likely – impact is full-scale US/China nuclear war</span>**
**Dodge, 5** (Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, p. 415-416)
<span class="Underline">In the summer of 2005, Chinese Major-General Zhu Chenghu threatened the United States with nuclear attack, stating that, “If the Americans draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, the PRC realizes that it must be able to deter U.S. military intervention. The idea is to convince the United States and the world that China is both capable and, more importantly, willing to inflict grievous casualties on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. Efforts toward this end have been manifested over recent years in the form of greatly increased military spending, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical nuclear weapons, and the formation of a naval warfighting strategy that emphasizes asymmetric attacks on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation. Put simply, this piece argues that China’s warfighting doctrine is misguided, unrealistic, and dangerous. It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because it makes nuclear war with the United States far more likely. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, China’s acquisition of advanced foreign weaponry, its expectation that the United States will back down at the first hint of casualties, and its belief that nuclear weapons can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, China may act on its irredentist policies when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition. Finally, the loss of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, will cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, leaving only nuclear options. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of inadvertent escalation. Originally formulated in reference to late ColdWar conflict scenarios, these ideas are greatly germane to any future Sino-U.S. conflict. It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. </span>

**<span class="Underline">Independently, motivating Beijing to take a greater regional role ensures its peaceful rise</span>**
**Bandow, 09** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)
<span class="Underline">So Washington should exhibit humility about its ability to force change. As Secretary Clinton observed, “We have to continue to press them. But our pressing on those issues can’t interfere” with cooperation on other issues. Ultimately a positive relationship with Beijing is more likely to lead to a more liberal China. The result is not foreordained, but as always engagement offers the better bet. The United States shouldn’t hesitate to promote its ideals, but it must recognize its limits in enforcing them.</span>
<span class="Underline">Washington also should look on benignly as the PRC expands its commercial and diplomatic ties around the world. Even a sober military analyst like Tom Ricks of the Washington Post recently warned: “I am not sure what China is up to in Africa. But I have the nagging thought that we will figure it out in 15 years and be sorry.”</span>
<span class="Underline">Yet the United States and Soviet Union spent most of the cold war sparring for influence in the Third World to little meaningful effect. Money was spent and lives were lost, but in the end it didn’t much matter who was numero uno in Vientiane, Kinshasa, Luanda or Managua. It matters even less today. As my Cato colleague Ben Friedman puts it, “There is little that China can do in Africa to make it stronger or to damage U.S. interests.” If Beijing wishes to invest heavily in places with little geopolitical heft, why should the United States object?</span>
<span class="Underline">Even more important, Washington needs to back away from any kind of arms race with the PRC. The latest Pentagon Joint Operating Environment 2008 ominously declared that while Beijing doesn’t “emphasize the future strictly in military terms,” the Chinese do calculate “that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific.” The annual Pentagon assessment of PRC military spending appears to show Beijing’s conscious effort to build a force capable of deterring American intervention against China in East Asia. As a result, Aaron Friedberg, until recently Vice President Cheney’s chief foreign-policy adviser, worries that the balance of power “is beginning to shift in way that, under the wrong set of circumstances, could increase the risk of miscalculation and conflict.”</span>
<span class="Underline">Yet the question is, what balance of power? Beijing poses no threat to America’s homeland or even Pacific possessions and will not do so for decades, if ever. The United States possesses a far stronger military to start—eleven carrier groups to none, for instance—spends five or more times as much as the PRC on defense (excluding the costs of Afghanistan and Iraq) and is allied with most important industrial states in Asia and Europe. There is no Chinese threat or potential threat to America.</span>
<span class="Underline">At issue is relative influence in East Asia and the security of Washington’s friends in that region. Yet the PRC so far has been assertive rather than aggressive and those nations, particularly Japan and South Korea, could do much more individually and collectively for regional security. Washington should not hesitate to sell arms to friendly states, including Taiwan, despite Chinese protests, but should leave them with responsibility for their own defense. Of course, a policy of continued restraint by Beijing will make it far easier for the United States to back away.</span>
<span class="Underline">In any case, there is little that Washington can do, at least at acceptable cost, to maintain U.S. dominance along China’s borders, as the PRC—whose economy already ranks number two or three, depending on the measure, in the world—continues to grow. Washington would have to devote an ever larger amount of resources to the military, in the midst of economic crisis, to ensure its ability to overcome far more limited Chinese capabilities. Even then, Beijing is unlikely to forever accept U.S. hegemony. Confrontation if not conflict would be likely.</span>
<span class="Underline">The better option would be to temper America’s geopolitical pretensions and accept a more influential PRC in its own region. China will grow in power, irrespective of Washington’s wishes. America’s chief objective should be to ensure that this rise is peaceful, as Beijing has promised.</span>
<span class="Underline">U.S.-China diplomatic relations passed the thirty-year mark last fall. The relationship has survived great challenges and is likely to face even greater ones in the future. But despite inevitable differences between the two nations, much depends upon strengthening their ties. The twenty-first century will turn out far differently—and positively—if America and the PRC prove willing to accommodate each other’s economic and geopolitical ambitions.</span>
<span class="Underline">Chinese aggression escalates and goes nuclear</span>
Adams, 09 – reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan (3/31/09, Jonathon, Global Post, “The dragon sharpens its claws,” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china-and-its-neighbors/090331/the-dragon-sharpens-its-claws)
<span class="Underline">TAIPEI — It's the stuff of dark sci-fi scenarios; the war that nobody wants.</span>
<span class="Underline">But the most recent Pentagon report on China's military power — released last week — shows how high the stakes have become, in the unlikely event the United States and China ever do come to blows.</span>
<span class="Underline">China has the world's fastest-growing military. It is building state-of-the art fighter jets, destroyers, and anti-ship missiles worth billions of dollars. It's just confirmed it will build an aircraft carrier.</span>
<span class="Underline">And according to the Pentagon, it's now fielding a new nuclear force able to "inflict significant damage on most large American cities."</span>
<span class="Underline">Most disturbing, Chinese military officials have publicly threatened to use that capability against the United States — in a conflict over Taiwan.</span>
<span class="Underline">"China doesn't just threaten war, it threatens nuclear war," said John Tkacik, a China expert and former U.S. diplomat, at a forum in Taipei last weekend. "This is the kind of thing that rattles cages in the U.S."</span>

**<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>**
**Cheong 2k –** East Asia Correspondent (Ching Cheong, The Straits Times, “No one gains in war over Taiwan,” 6-25-2000, Lexis-Nexis Universe)
<span class="Underline">A cross-strait conflict, even at the lowest end of the intensity scale, will suffice to truncate, if not to reverse, the steep GNP growth trends of the past few years. Other than the quantifiable losses from disrupted trade flows, there is also the longer-term damage to consider. For example, it took Taiwan almost three decades to establish itself as the third largest producer of information technology (IT) products in the world. It is now the island's single largest foreign exchange earner. The Sept 21 earthquake last year demonstrated the risk involved in Taiwan's dependence on the IT industry. A few days of power blackouts disrupted chip-manufacturing operations on the island, which in turn sent prices of these components soaring worldwide. Not surprisingly, a scramble followed for alternative sources of supply. A blockade lasting three months will devastate the industry in Taiwan. Similarly, it has taken China more than two decades to establish itself as the second largest recipient of private direct investment. In recent years, such investment has amounted to more than 20 per cent of China's total capital formation. A capital outflow will follow if there is trouble across the strait. Other than China and Taiwan, Japan's economy is likely to be hurt too if the blockade disrupts its "life-line" -the sea lane through which flows its supplies of oil and other commodities. Though no physical loss will be incurred, the blockade will force up prices across the board as Japan is so dependent on this sea lane. The Asean region stands to gain in the short run. Those with strong IT industries, like Singapore and Malaysia, will carve a big slice from what was previously Taiwan's share. Similarly, as investment flees China, the Asean countries might be able to intercept this flow and benefit thereby. Politically, the blockade is likely to provoke Sino-phobia in the region. Japan's rightwing forces will seize this golden opportunity to demand a revision of the post-war Constitution prohibiting its rearmament. Asean countries having territorial disputes with Beijing in the South China Sea will beef up their defence budgets. Ethnic Chinese population in these countries may have to contend with increased suspicion or worse as Sino-phobia rises. The US stands to gain. So long as its stays on the sidelines, it does not lose the Chinese market. At the same time its defence industry gains as countries in the region start stocking up on arms in anticipation of trouble. DESTROYING THE TAIWAN MILITARY THE medium intensity scenario postulates a situation in which Beijing wages a war against Taiwan. The objective here is to obliterate its military capability which is seen as underpinning its independence movement. The outcome: Taiwan is brought to its knees but only after widespread death and destruction have been inflicted on the island and the coastal provinces of China. In this scenario, the US while feeling obliged to support Taiwan militarily is not party to a full-scale war with China. Washington's primary concern would be to keep it to a "limited war" to prevent hostilities from spinning out of control. Limited though it may be, the war will set back the economies of China and Taiwan by at least two to three decades. All the short-term gains enjoyed by the Asean countries in the low-intensity scenario will be nullified as the conflict intensifies. In this medium-intensity scenario, no one gains. Politically, all countries are forced to take sides. This decision is particularly hard to make in those countries having a sizeable ethnic-Chinese population. THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

**<span class="Underline">The plan is key to assure China benign intent – spurs its co-operation on Six Party Talks</span>**
**Karotkin 10**—Senior China Analyst with the Department of the Navy (Jesse, 27 May 2010, All Eyes on China in Wake of Cheonan Sinking, China Brief Volume: 10 Issue: 11, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=36431&tx_ttnews[backPid]=13&cHash=7b6d6a4171, RBatra)
<span class="Underline">China’s longstanding relationship with North Korea has come under greater international scrutiny since the March 26 sinking of the 1300-ton South Korean corvette Cheonan near the de facto maritime boundary between North and South Korea. The apparent torpedo attack killed 46 of 104 sailors aboard Cheonan and prompted intense speculation and recrimination in Seoul as South Korea scrambled to investigate. The multinational investigation team reported on May 20 that, “evidence points overwhelmingly to the conclusion that the torpedo was fired by a North Korean submarine. There is no other plausible explanation” [1]. The team displayed components of the North Korean torpedo discovered on the seabed. While Pyongyang adamantly denied culpability, even China, the North’s key economic benefactor, has not challenged the investigation results. </span>
<span class="Underline">Given China’s role as both a permanent member on the UN Security Council and North Korea’s most meaningful diplomatic partner, Beijing will play a pivotal role in any effort to punish the North Korean regime. With the investigation results now public, Seoul is seeking to marshal the international community, particularly China, to take tough action. Faced with compelling evidence, Beijing is under mounting pressure to show that it will support international norms and that it is committed to checking Pyongyang’s provocative behavior. At the same time, Beijing’s interest in protecting the North Korean regime makes it wary of pushing Kim Jong-il into a more precarious position. </span>
<span class="Underline">As China attempts to portray itself as a “responsible stakeholder” on a broad range of issues from anti-piracy to counter-proliferation, its historical relationship with North Korea has become a growing liability. Although the Cheonan incident could prompt some Chinese officials to take a harder look at the political costs of this special relationship, policy change is unlikely in the near term. The “Dear Leader's” recent visit to Beijing underscored the durability of this bilateral relationship (See "Kim Jong Il's Secret Visit to Beijing," China Brief, May 13). China’s strategic interest in a stable North Korea is likely to trump its desire to demonstrate “responsibility” by backing tough international sanctions.</span>
<span class="Underline">Capability and Motive</span>
<span class="Underline">North Korea’s motives for attacking the Cheonan are likely to remain a subject of speculation. Prior to taking office in early 2008, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak made clear his intent to take a harder line toward the North. Much to Pyongyang’s displeasure, Lee reversed the so-called “sunshine policy” of predecessors Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun, which had provided North Korea with billions of dollars in aid while extracting few concessions from Pyongyang. Like many critics of the sunshine policy, Lee contended that the aid amounted to "unilateral appeasement" [2]. The sinking of the Cheonan could validate Lee’s charge that unconditioned aid amounted to “peace for tribute.”</span>
<span class="Underline">North Korea might also have attacked the Cheonan to avenge a November 2009 skirmish between North and South Korean ships in the Yellow Sea. According to South Korean Navy officials, the encounter left a North Korean patrol boat “engulfed in flames” with an uncertain number of North Korean casualties. In contrast, the South Korean ship involved sustained only minor damage (Korea Times, November 16, 2009; New York Times, November 10, 2009). Denying South Korean assertions that the North Korean patrol boat had crossed the Northern Limit Line boundary, Pyongyang called the November incident a “grave armed provocation” and (unsuccessfully) demanded an apology form the South.</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite Pyongyang’s protestations of innocence over the Cheonan incident, early media reports suggested that North Korean officials were privately touting the attack as a retaliatory victory. According to one South Korean report, a North Korean Worker’s Party Secretary tacitly confirmed North Korean responsibility for the attack to an audience of fellow Party members, proclaiming, “The Korean People’s Army has recently taken merciless revenge on its enemies. After our retaliation, South Korea has been so afraid of our military strength” (Donga Ilbo [South Korea], April 28). While it is difficult to confirm the truth of either the remark or the report, such comments point to a possible North Korean motive for the attack on the Cheonan.</span>
<span class="Underline">All Roads Pass Through Beijing</span>
<span class="Underline">Calling for “resolute countermeasures” against North Korea, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak expressed his desire to deal with Pyongyang “through strong international cooperation” (Christian Science Monitor, May 20). Park Hyung-jun, the senior political affairs secretary to President Lee, underscored China’s central role in any international response to the Cheonan incident. Park noted that “we will explain [the investigation results] to China in full, so that we can have China play its role in the issue.” As a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council, the host of the Six-Party Talks, and North Korea’s principal benefactor, China will exercise immense influence over the type and severity of any punishment meted out against Pyongyang.</span>
<span class="Underline">In response to the Cheonan report and Seoul’s accompanying call for sanctions, North’s Korea’s Central News Agency insisted this constitutes an “intolerable, grave provocation [and] a declaration of war” (KCNA, May 24). Characterizing the Cheonan incident as a “conspiratorial farce to harm and stifle the DPRK”, Pyongyang pledged to “mete out a thousand-fold punishment to the puppet war thirsty forces” (KCNA, May 26). North Korea later indicated it would fire upon South Korea’s loudspeakers that are slated to resume propaganda messaging along the demilitarized zone (Seoul Hankyoreh, May 26).</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing’s vague official commentary and high-level diplomatic contact with North Korea in the wake of the sinking triggered significant concern in South Korea (Yonhap [South Korea], May 24). Beijing’s guarded statements reflect an effort to appear impartial and focused on preventing escalation rather than assigning blame or delivering justice. A PRC Foreign Ministry spokesperson called on all parties to “remain cool and exercise restraint” (Xinhua News Agency, May 7). China's deputy foreign minister characterized the incident as “unfortunate” but refrained from blaming North Korea (Global Times [China], May 21). Meanwhile, the Beijing Review reiterated Beijing’s general opposition to economic sanctions against Pyongyang, suggesting they are politically ineffective and only cause the public to suffer (Beijing Review, May 17).</span>
<span class="Underline">Of greater significance to South Korean observers, Hu welcomed Kim Jong-Il to Beijing on 20 April, just days after South Korean President Lee consulted with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Shanghai. South Korean commentators suggested that Beijing’s unexpected invitation to the North Korean leader was inappropriate and insulting given the cloud of suspicion hanging over the Kim regime (Yonhap, May 12 and 13; JoongAng Ilbo [South Korea], May 8).</span>
<span class="Underline">South Korean media expressed concern that China’s strategic interest in North Korean stability will override any pressure to deal firmly with Pyongyang. The moderate Korea Times predicted that even the most damning evidence concerning North Korean involvement in the Cheonan sinking will not lead Beijing to change its stance on North Korea (The Korea Times, May 10). The more conservative JoongAng Ilbo called South Korea’s “strategic partnership” with Beijing “a delusion,” insisting that China will always embrace strategies that enable it to exercise influence over the Korean Peninsula (JoongAng Ilbo, May 8).</span>
<span class="Underline">China to Shape Response Options</span>
<span class="Underline">Most analysts downplay the likelihood of South Korea military retaliation, suggesting that the desire to avoid escalation will prompt Seoul to employ diplomatic and economic measures as it has done in the past. Seoul can pursue several punitive options short of military action. The most obvious first step involves further tightening the flow of international aid into North Korea and suspending remaining inter-Korean economic cooperation. China could limit this tactic’s effectiveness, however, by increasing its already-significant bilateral assistance.</span>
<span class="Underline">Seoul is seeking United Nations action in tandem with economic pressure. Here, too, China will play a critical role as a permanent, veto-wielding member of the Security Council. Although Beijing supported U.N. Resolution 1874, which imposed political and economic sanctions on North Korea following Pyongyang’s 2009 nuclear test, it did so only after significantly weakening the initial language. Equally important, North Korea’s responsibility for the nuclear test was beyond question. Absent an admission of guilt regarding the Cheonan incident, it will be difficult to prove North Korean involvement with absolute certainty. Even a shred of doubt may be used by the Chinese leadership to shape and water down proposed sanctions, regardless of how credible Beijing finds the investigation results.</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, Seoul could indefinitely suspend its participation in the stalled Six-Party Talks. Beijing could dilute the effect of this measure by persuading or pressing others of the six to proceed with talks. During meetings with Kim Jong-Il in early May, the Chinese elicited a pledge from Pyongyang to move toward a resumption of the Six-Party Talks (South China Morning Post, May 12; Kyodo World Service, May 13). Should South Korea remain on the sidelines indefinitely, it may run the risk of being marginalized as other participants engage North Korea on substantive issues.</span>
<span class="Underline">The Growing Cost of Supporting Pyongyang</span>
<span class="Underline">The economic and ideological divide between China and North Korea has grown exponentially since the late 1970s, when Beijing embarked on its path of “reform and opening.” Where China has become increasingly integrated with the international community and supportive of international norms, the impoverished and isolated North Korean leadership has shunned pressure from China and others to reform.</span>
<span class="Underline">Beijing’s growing international engagement is motivated in part by a desire to bolster its international image. Over the past decade in particular, Beijing has sought to assure the world of its “peaceful development,” insisting that China will not destabilize the existing order as it becomes more powerful. Beijing has also seemingly embraced the U.S. formulation of becoming a “responsible stakeholder,” implying that it will more actively contribute to the global order from which it benefits. Beijing has curtailed its weapons proliferation, contributed naval forces to the multinational anti-piracy mission in the Gulf of Aden and leveraged its unique relationship with Pyongyang as an asset in the Six-Party Talks. The Cheonan incident illustrates the threat that Pyongyang can pose to Beijing’s desired narrative.</span>
<span class="Underline">From the standpoint of China’s “image doctors,” it would be logical to conclude that China is paying a high price for its longstanding association with Pyongyang. Beijing’s critics cite the Cheonan incident as evidence of contradictory policies on the Korean Peninsula. A strident editorial in the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post stated that Beijing is attempting to play “both sides,” insisting that the Chinese leadership “cannot both run with the hare and hunt with the hounds” (South China Morning Post, May 12).</span>
<span class="Underline">In recent weeks, mainland Chinese media has expressed unusually candid criticism of North Korea, characterizing the regime’s nuclear ambitions as “proud” and irresponsible. The Global Times asserted that Pyongyang is “playing a dangerous game with Northeastern powers while relying on its comparatively weak national strength” (Global Times, May 13). The Guangming Ribao critically noted that Pyongyang has “inflexibly chosen to tread a military first policy… to develop nuclear weapons, [and] stir up disturbances” while relying on China for foreign assistance (Guangming Wang, May 17). Meanwhile, China Daily, which serves as the official English-language mouthpiece, challenged foreign media assertions that China was “backing Pyongyang” in the wake of the Cheonan attack (China Daily, May 12). Chinese media tactfully referred to Kim Jong-Il’s visit as “unofficial,” adding that Pyongyang—not Beijing—chose the timing of the trip (Xinhua News Agency, May 7; China Daily, May 12).</span>
<span class="Underline">No Major Shift in the Near Term</span>
<span class="Underline">While Mao Zedong famously called China and North Korea “as close as lips and teeth,” the ideological language of kinship has long since vanished from China’s official script. In the wake of the Cold War, the two countries have taken starkly different political and economic paths. Beijing values North Korea primarily as a buffer against U.S. forces in the South, sustaining North Korea for strategic rather than ideological reasons [3]. Chinese media characterized Hu’s visit with Kim Jong-Il as part of a longstanding effort to promote and maintain “stability” on the peninsula (Beijing Review, May 17; China Daily, May 12)</span>
<span class="Underline">Should the North Korean regime implode, Beijing could face several undesirable consequences, including a flood of refugees into China, protracted war or chaos on the peninsula, or a successor regime that is antagonistic toward China. Beijing also worries that “precipitous reunification” with the South could leave U.S. forces stationed north of the 38th parallel [4]. This is particularly important as many Chinese scholars and commentators express the fear that the United States is pursuing a strategy to “encircle” China [5].</span>
<span class="Underline">As the international community deals with the Cheonan incident, Beijing will be forced to balance its strategic interest in North Korean stability against its desire to project a benign and cooperative international image. If world opinion unifies behind levying serious penalties against Pyongyang, China will find itself in a corner, with pressure not to obstruct the process. At the same time, Beijing sees a regime in Pyongyang that is very vulnerable, particularly given Kim Jong-Il’s failing health and the likelihood of a power transition in the coming years.</span>


**<span class="Underline">The talks don’t have to be successful – maintaining them alone is enough to prevent miscalculation and reduce the risk of nuclear war</span>**
**Dunn 7 –** former Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and served as Ambassador to the 1985 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference. (Summer 07, Lewis A. Dunn, IFRI Security Studies Center, Proliferation Papers, “Deterrence Today Roles, Challenges and Responses,” http://www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/Deterrence_Today_Dunn_2007.pdf, JMP)
<span class="Underline">Further, even if the Six-Party Talks prove unable in the near-term to come up with a deal mutually acceptable to all parties, it could be desirable to keep that forum alive. It would provide at least one venue for continuing contacts between the United States and North Korea as well as among the wider group of countries. Such contacts could prove helpful in avoiding future miscalculation, lessening the risk of a nuclear confrontation, and in more generally opening a channel for strategic exchanges with North Korea to complement U.S. extended deterrence to Japan and South Korea. Continuation of the Six-Party Talks eventually could lead to yet another effort to convince the North Korean leadership to give up its nuclear weapons in return for some combination of acceptance of its regime, political-security normalization, and economic benefits.8 </span>

**<span class="Underline">Miscalculation on the peninsula guarantees global escalation</span>**
**STRATFOR, 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula, JMP)
<span class="Underline">Managing Escalation</span>
<span class="Underline">But no one, of course, is interested in another war on the Korean Peninsula. Both sides will posture, but at the end of the day, neither benefits from a major outbreak of hostilities. And despite the specter of North Korean troops streaming under the DMZ through tunnels and wreaking havoc behind the lines in the south (a scenario for which there has undoubtedly been significant preparation), neither side has any intention of invading the other.</span>
<span class="Underline">So the real issue is the potential for escalation — or an accident that could precipitate escalation — that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own national (and contradictory) definitions of where disputed boundaries lie and with rules of engagement loosened, the potential for sudden and rapid escalation is quite real.</span>
<span class="Underline">Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall.</span>
<span class="Underline">For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War. During that time it was feared that a second Korean War could all too easily escalate into and a thermonuclear World War III, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward.</span>
<span class="Underline">Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But current tensions are quickly escalating to a level unprecedented in the post-Cold War period, and the constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further. </span>


**<span class="Underline">Troop presence is the biggest obstacle to Chinese co-operation and re-unification—key to stabilize a post-regime collapse North Korea </span>**
**Van Nguyen, 09 –** freelance contributor who has written for Asia Time Online, OpEdnews and Foreign Policy Journal. (10/31/09, Peter, UPI Asia, “U.S. bases are obstacle to Korean reunification,” http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/13/us_bases_are_obstacle_to_korean_reunification/1193/, JMP)
<span class="Underline">The United States and South Korea recently agreed on a contingency plan in case the North Korean government collapses. The plan includes joint military operations to control the influx of refugees and to secure the North’s nuclear weapons. It also outlines the reunification of the two Koreas under a liberal and democratic leadership, with the cooperation of China.</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States believes that if the North collapsed, China would have to back reunification to demonstrate that it is a responsible player in regional cooperation. But in order to get the Chinese to endorse the plan, the United States would have to give up its strategic military bases in South Korea and order a complete withdrawal of U.S. troops from the region.</span>
<span class="Underline">Both Koreas have been constantly eyed by foreigners due to their geostrategic value in Northeast Asia. For China, Japan and the United States, the Koreas have provided a buffer zone for more than half a century since the end of the Korean War.</span>
<span class="Underline">The Korean peninsula is also seen as a predetermined battlefield if war breaks out between China, the United States and Japan. This would leave the warring states relatively untouched, as the three nations could avoid hitting each other’s territories, which would escalate the conflict and make it difficult for all parties to disengage for fear of losing face. But both Koreas would have to face the brunt of a full-scale war.</span>
<span class="Underline">For China, protecting North Korea means keeping the United States and its allies from encroaching on its border. China would rather maintain the status quo than accept a reunified Korea under South Korean administration. Therefore, China will do its best to stabilize North Korea and rebuild its political structure in line with Chinese interests.</span>
<span class="Underline">China might be forced to accept a reunified Korea if it wants to maintain an international image as a peace-promoting country. However, unless it gets some kind of security guarantee without losing the strategic balance in the region, there is little incentive for it to allow reunification to take place unchallenged.</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the end of the Korean War the United States has maintained a large military contingent in South Korea to deter an invasion attempt by the North. The U.S. military presence keeps China’s ambitions in check and in the bargain offers Japan some security, as the Japanese fear reprisals from the Chinese for atrocities committed during World War II. Besides, China’s growing economic and military clout has increased the necessity for a military presence in South Korea.</span>
<span class="Underline">However, U.S. military bases in South Korea could pose the greatest obstacle to a peaceful reunification of the Koreas. Even a unified Korea might not want the U.S. military, as reunification would make the objective of providing deterrence against the North redundant.</span>
<span class="Underline">A U.S. military base in a united Korea would only strain ties with China, as it would be difficult to explain why it was required if the North Korean threat no longer exists.</span>
<span class="Underline">Also, millions of North Koreans have a deeply embedded resentment against the United States and are highly suspicious of its geopolitical moves in the region. Many believe that the South Korean government is a puppet of the United States. Stationing troops in Korea after reunification would only reinforce this belief.</span>
<span class="Underline">This would create a deep rift within the Koreas and threaten to derail the reunification process. The complete withdrawal of all U.S. military bases and personnel from the Korean peninsula should follow after a timetable has been set, allowing the new Korea to handle its own security.</span>
<span class="Underline">The question is, will the United States pull out all its troops in order to allow the peaceful reunification of the Koreas? The United States has been dreading a scenario in which its military bases in South Korea could come under threat.</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States may not withdraw its troops, as that would leave a strategic vacuum. It would risk losing influence over Korea to China, whose economy is touted to race ahead of that of the United States.</span>
<span class="Underline">Although complete U.S. withdrawal would be ideal, an alternative would be to allow China to set up bases in the northern part of Korea, similar to Kyrgyzstan allowing Russia and China to set up bases to ease their concerns over the U.S. military presence.</span>
<span class="Underline">This would have its challenges, however, and might increase the chances of military confrontation. But regardless of the implications and consequences, the United States will hesitate to remove its bases.</span>
<span class="Underline">China would probably ask for a U.S. troop withdrawal as a precondition to the reunification of the two Korea’s under a liberal and democratic government.</span>

**<span class="Underline">North Korean implosion inevitable – Six party talks key to avert post-collapse catastrophe</span>**
**Foster-Carter 5** (2/17, Honorary senior research fellow in sociology and modern Korea at Leeds University, “The Six-Party Failure,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/0516A_Carter.html)
<span class="Underline">The grassroots are restive too. A Seoul non-governmental organization (NGO) lately released the first-ever video of dissidents in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Sunshine cheerleaders rubbished this, but the real question is: What took them so long? Half-baked reforms have seen inflation soar and rations slashed. Yet if the state no longer provides, the old social contract is dead. Ever more North Koreans will start to ask the Janet Jackson question of their rulers: What have you done for me, lately? It is crucial to see the big picture and take the long view. The key North Korea question is how and when - not whether - this ghastly failed regime will cease to be. Just possibly it might manage to morph into something more sensible, like China and Vietnam. But that looks a long shot. It is only prudent to guard against and plan for much bumpier landings. Here, the sagging six-party process just might have a use after all. As Professor Francis Fukuyama has argued, the other five could reconstitute themselves as a permanent regional security body, which Northeast Asia has sorely lacked hitherto. Item 1 on the agenda, urgently, is to agree who will or will not intervene if North Korea blows, or collapses into chaos. That will be a moment of peril. A century ago, Korea's three neighbors fought two wars for control of a dying kingdom. A terrible war also followed the superpowers' partition of the peninsula in 1945. Now, as another Korean dynasty looks moribund, it is vital that all concerned cooperate to prevent a tough transition becoming a third cataclysm. That is the real issue in Korea now; not just nukes, still less the fate of a hexagonal table in Beijing. </span>


**<span class="Underline">The impact is great power war between China and Russia and the U.S.</span>**
**Stares and Wit 9** (January, Senior fellow for Conflict Prevention and director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct senior research fellow at the Weatherhead East Asia Institute, Columbia University, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea”)

<span class="Underline">Under these circumstances, the uncertainty and stress imposed by a lengthy and perhaps ultimately inconclusive leadership struggle on the overall system of governance might prove too much. As numerous cases from around the world attest, totalitarian states––despite outward signs of strength––are remarkably brittle when stressed by internal forces. North Korea is an exceptional state for all the reasons outlined, but at a certain point the pressures could become too intense for the country to stay intact. In this case, earlier predictions of collapse and the end of North Korea as an independent sovereign state might finally come to pass. These various scenarios would present the United States and the neighboring states with challenges and dilemmas that, depending on how events were to unfold, could grow in size and complexity. Important and vital interests are at stake for all concerned. North Korea is hardly a normal country located in a strategic backwater of the world. As a nuclear weapons state and exporter of ballistic missile systems, it has long been a serious proliferation concern to Washington. With one of the world’s largest armies in possession of huge numbers of long-range artillery and missiles, it can also wreak havoc on America’s most important Asian allies––South Korea and Japan––both of which are home to large numbers of American citizens and host to major U.S. garrisons committed to their defense. Moreover, North Korea abuts two great powers—China and Russia––that have important interests at stake in the future of the peninsula. That they would become actively engaged in any future crisis involving North Korea is virtually guaranteed. Although all the interested powers share a basic interest in maintaining peace and stability in northeast Asia, a major crisis from within North Korea could lead to significant tensions and––as in the past–– even conflict between them. A contested or prolonged leadership struggle in Pyongyang would inevitably raise questions in Washington about whether the United States should try to sway the outcome.5 Some will almost certainly argue that only by promoting regime change will the threat now posed by North Korea as a global proliferator, as a regional menace to America’s allies, and as a massive human rights violator, finally disappear. Such views could gain some currency in Seoul and even Tokyo, though it seems unlikely. Beijing, however, would certainly look on any attempt to promote a pro-American regime in Pyongyang as interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state and a challenge to China’s national interests. This and other potential sources of friction could intensify should the situation in North Korea deteriorate. The impact of a severe power struggle in Pyongyang on the availability of food and other basic services could cause tens and possibly hundreds of thousands of refugees to flee North Korea. The pressure on neighboring countries to intervene with humanitarian assistance and use their military to stem the flow of refugees would likely grow in these circumstances. Suspicions that the situation could be exploited by others for political advantage would add to the pressure to act sooner rather than later in a crisis. China would be the most likely destination for refugees because of its relatively open and porous border; its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has reportedly developed contingency plans to intervene in North Korea for possible humanitarian, peacekeeping, and “environmental control” missions.6 Besides increasing the risk of dangerous military interactions and unintended escalation in sensitive borders areas, China’s actions would likely cause considerable consternation in South Korea about its ultimate intentions toward the peninsula. China no doubt harbors similar fears about potential South Korean and American intervention in the North. Should the situation unravel further and North Korea begin to collapse entirely, another set of issues would come to the fore and likely place still more strain on allied cooperation and regional stability. For South Korea, the disintegration of the North Korean state would present both the opportunity to reunify the Korean people and the challenge of coping with the aftermath of change. Having seen the enormous social and economic costs that reunification imposed on Germany, Seoul might balk at rapid absorption and choose instead a slower, incremental path—assuming it had the choice. Although Washington’s inclination will be to defer to Seoul’s wishes, it may still prefer not to delay or risk the opportunity for Korean reunification that it has long seen as desirable for the stability of northeast Asia. The possibility, therefore, of discord arising between Washington and Seoul over the pace and character of reunification is not inconceivable. In any case, Washington’s acute concern about the security and safety of North Korea’s nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction might force it to take unilateral action. Such action could put it at odds with Seoul, not to mention Beijing. Tokyo’s legitimate concerns would also need to be taken into account. China’s likely preference in such circumstances would be to sustain North Korea as an independent state for as long as possible. Should that goal prove untenable, Beijing would seek to preserve important Chinese interests, such as maintaining strategic depth, regional influence, and economic stability—all of which could bring it into conflict with Washington and Seoul. The prospect of North Korea being absorbed by South Korea and U.S. forces potentially being deployed near China’s northeastern border are matters of acute concern. The same fears helped trigger China’s entry into the Korean War. Moscow undoubtedly shares many of Beijing’s concerns, though Russia appears less poised to intervene should the situation deteriorate. Its diplomatic and possibly logistical support would still be critical in managing a major crisis on the peninsula. However, with the deterioration in U.S.-Russia relations since the Georgia crisis of August 2008, Russia’s role in any future North Korean contingency might not be as passive or as cooperative as many have so far assumed. How the potential challenges associated with sudden, destabilizing change in North Korea are handled will have profound consequences for the subsequent evolution of Korea, the stability of northeast Asia, and the future course of U.S.-China relations. Unfortunately, there are good reasons to be concerned about the level of preparedness of all the principal actors, including the United States and its allies, and with it the potential for misunderstanding and outright discord. </span>

==2AC - Impact Overview== 

<span class="Underline">**Ozone depletion guarantees extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Earth & Society 98** (A Project out of the University of Michigan -- THE OZONE LAYER: IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF OZONE EDUCATION – http://www.umich.edu/~gs265/society/ozone.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">The ozone layer is essential for human life. It is able to absorb much harmful ultraviolet radiation, preventing penetration to the earth’s surface. Ultraviolet radiation (UV) is defined as radiation with wavelengths between 290-320 nanometers, which are harmful to life because this radiation can enter cells and destroy the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of many life forms on planet earth. In a sense, the ozone layer can be thought of as a UV filter, or our planet’s built in sunscreen (Geocities.com, 1998). Without the ozone layer, UV radiation would not be filtered as it reached the surface of the earth. If this happened, cancer would break out and all of the living civilizations, and all species on earth would be in jeopardy (Geocities.com, 1998). Thus, the ozone layer essentially allows life, as we know it, to exist.</span>

==2AC - AT Prolif Good== 

**Proliferation increases the risks of conventional war and nuclear terrorism—the Kargil war proves**
**Sagan 7**—Caroline S.G. Munro professor of Political Science at Stanford University and co-director of Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC), graduated from Oberlin College (B.A. in Government, 1977) and completed his Ph.D. at Harvard University (Scott, “A Nuclear Iran”, Journal of International Affairs, Spring/Summer2007, Vol. 60, Issue 2, EBSCO, RBatra)
Thank you for this invitation. Nuclear weapons are horribly destructive. And, in theory, any statesmen in any state should be strongly influenced by the fear that his or her cities could be destroyed by an adversary But in reality, as opposed to theory, nuclear weapons are not controlled by states. They are not controlled by statesmen. They are managed by imperfect, normal human beings inside imperfect, normal organizations.
To understand in which situations nuclear weapons are likely to produce successful deterrence and in which situations they are less likely to, we need to open the black box of decisionmaking inside states to look at who controls and manages the actual nuclear weapons or devices that are being built. We fail currently to do that in our thinking about Iran.
There is a creeping fatalism occurring in the American debate about this subject. Many policymakers and scholars are fatalists in thinking that there is nothing we can do, short of using military force, to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And that fatalism is often coupled with deterrence optimism, best exemplified by Kenneth Waltz's thinking.
Proliferation fatalism and deterrence optimism interact in a particularly diabolical manner; the more we think it inevitable that Iran is going to acquire nuclear weapons, the more we are tempted--through wishful thinking--to say, "Well, maybe it won't matter." And the more we bolster our belief that it won't matter, the less we are willing to take the necessary diplomatic and strategic steps that could potentially stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.
I think diplomacy could still work in Iran and a military attack would not be a wise move today But, for now, I'd like to focus my brief remarks on why we should really worry about nuclear weapons in the hands of the Iranian regime.
Let me start by noting that today, as in the past, Kenneth Waltz refers back to the Cold War, saying that the United States didn't want the Soviet Union to acquire nuclear weapons, and, when it did, Moscow still didn't use them against us. Deterrence worked. He refers to the People's Republic of China, saying we didn't want them to get nuclear weapons--we even thought of preventive war--but the result wasn't so bad. Deterrence worked.
And yet, these two states, China and the Soviet Union, were monolithic governments through most of the Cold War. Indeed, the rare moments when they were not monolithic were some of the most dangerous periods in recent history. At the end of the Cold War when the Soviet Union collapsed and during China's Red Guard Cultural Revolution, there were serious threats to the safety and control over their respective nuclear weapons.
Instead of looking at the Cold War with nostalgia and projecting its legacy to assess the meaning of potential nuclear weapons in Iran, let us look instead at the more recent history of a state in Iran's neighborhood: Pakistan. Three of the dangers that can occur in theory when a new nuclear state emerges really did occur, and in spades, in Pakistan.
First is the danger of nuclear weapons promoting aggression of the state which holds them--that is, acquiring the protection of a nuclear shield which will enable the state to be more aggressive in a conventional manner.
Second, there is the problem of terrorist theft.
And third, the problem of potential loose controls and sales of nuclear weapons to terrorists.
All three of these problems occurred when Pakistan got nuclear weapons. The first is often called the stability-instability paradox: a situation of stability between two countries who both have nuclear weapons that can lead one country to think that it can be more aggressive conventionally because it is protected from a nuclear retaliation by its nuclear shield.
In Pakistan decisionmaking is not centrally controlled, as it was in the Soviet Union during the Cold War. When Pakistan acquired nuclear weapons there were many inside its military who said, "This our chance to do something about Kashmir," so they misled then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif into approving an operation which sent Pakistani soldiers disguised as Mujahedeen guerrillas into Indian controlled Kashmir near the town of Kargil in the winter of 1998.
When the Indians threatened to retaliate, the Pakistani military reportedly began to ready its missiles for nuclear strikes. It took a brave (and one of the last) act of Pakistani civilian Prime Minister Sharif to order the disguised Pakistani forces in Indian-held Kashmir to pull back.
Nuclear weapons created that particular problem and sparked the Kargil war.
The second problem is the vulnerability-invulnerability paradox: For nuclear weapons to have a deterrent effect, they must be invulnerable to a first strike from an adversary to allow for the possibility of retaliation. During times of peace, Pakistan creates this invulnerability by putting its nuclear weapons under lock and key in Pakistani military bases, so terrorists are unable to seize them. But in a crisis or a conventional war they have every incentive to take those nuclear weapons to the countryside, where they can be hidden and would be less vulnerable to an attack. And yet the countryside is exactly where they are more vulnerable to terrorist seizure.This problem can be best illustrated by an incident during the 1999 Kargil crisis. According to the Washington Post, officers within Pakistan's intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency, proposed the following idea to address the vulnerability of its nuclear weapons to an Indian attack: "Let's hide them in Afghanistan--the Indians will never be able to attack them there."( n1) Such an operation would reduce the vulnerability of an Indian attack but would certainly increase the likelihood that Al-Qaeda, the Taliban or another jihadi group could seize the weapons.
The third problem is the loss of control and the potential that someone inside a nuclear state could give nuclear weapons to another non-nuclear state.
Professor Waltz argues that we do not need to wonder whether new nuclear states will take good care of the nuclear weapons--they have every incentive to do so.
"They," an abstract entity called the state, may have the incentive to do so. But other actors inside these states may not have similar incentives.
Look at the history of the A.Q. Kahn nuclear network in Pakistan. With help from others, a senior scientist, acting in his own interest and greed, began to sell bomb design and centrifuge technology. He sold the actual centrifuges and bomb design to Libya, and he offered them to Iraq in 1991, though Saddam Hussein turned down the offer, thinking it was a CIA ploy. A.Q. Khan helped initiate the Iranian nuclear program in 1987, selling them centrifuges and other technologies. He sold similar items to North Korea.
**Prolif creates incentives to escalate—pre-emptive strikes __guarantee conflict__**
**Morgan 8**, et al—snr pol sci analyst, RAND. Ph.D. in policy studies, U Maryland; M.A.A.S. in airpower. Report prepared, part of Project Airforce (Forest, Dangerous Thresholds, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG614.pdf]]</span>, AMiles)
States that develop nuclear weapons do not do so in a strategic vacuum. While there may be nonsecurity-related motives for acquiring nuclear capabilities, such as the belief that doing so will garner the state and its leaders prestige, regimes that seek nuclear weapons most often do so principally to improve their security and bolster their coercive leverage vis-à-vis regional or global rivals. Consequently, the imminent emergence of a new nuclear state alarms neighbors and other actors that have interests in the region, impelling them to consider what options they have to redress their own security in the face of this new threat. If they have the ability to do so, one or more may try to prevent an embryonic nuclear program from reaching fruition, as Israel did with its 1981 air raid on the Iraqi nuclear reactor at Osiraq.4 More often, however, states in the race to develop nuclear weapons have cleared the final hurdle without suffering military intervention, creating or intensifying security dilemmas between them and their rivals and making subsequent confrontations more dangerous. Confrontations with new nuclear states raise serious risks of escalation, not only because the state or coalition opposing the newly armed regime is threatened, but also because the emergent nuclear capability itself may be vulnerable. It takes time for emergent states to produce enough fissile material to build more than a handful of weapons. Early on, the weapons are not mated to delivery vehicles, are typically stored at a central location, and may even consist of unassembled components. All of this can make them inviting targets for adversaries in the event of a crisis. Emergent nuclear powers may lack sophisticated strategic warning and attack-assessment systems, adding to their vulnerability and feeding their leaders’ sense of insecurity. Such vulnerability to a disarming first strike—or, in the parlance of nuclear deterrence, lack of a “survivable second-strike capability”—generates pressures to escalate on both sides. Knowing that an adversary is tempted to strike the emergent state’s nuclear capability preemptively puts pressure on that regime to use its weapons before they are lost. Conversely, the adversary, fearing the weapons and sensing that the enemy is pressured to use them, feels increasingly driven to preempt. These escalatory pressures are more severe, and the results potentially more catastrophic, if both sides are new nuclear states with similar vulnerabilities. 
==2AC - AT First Strike China== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">First strike fails</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bin 6</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">- Dir. Arms Control and Prof @ Tsinghua (2006, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth,” China Security, Iss. 4, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213&Itemid=8&lang=zh, D.A. 8/22</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rather than exploring why China chooses to do so, Lieber and Press use this fact as evidence to support their point on U.S. nuclear primacy.3 If the authors paid more heed to China’s choice of a small and low-alert nuclear arsenal they would find their deductions faulty, including technical problems in their calculations. All the calculations in their paper, including the sensitivity analyses, focus on the hardness of the targets as well as strike capabilities, which are determined by the lethal distance, accuracy, and reliability of U.S. nuclear weapons. However, the calculations in the paper are based on a fundamentally unrealistic assumption: that is, the United States can detect and locate all Russian and Chinese long-range nuclear weapons. The authors never state this assumption in their paper – perhaps unknowingly so, as most former calculations do not discuss the issue of target detection. In other previous studies, where the numbers of surviving nuclear weapons in a calculation are much larger than zero, it may be alright to ignore the factor of intelligence. But, if such a calculation gives a result of almost zero surviving targets in a nuclear exchange, the intelligence factor becomes highly salient and therefore cannot be ignored. The authors understand that “… one surviving mobile ICBM might destroy a U.S. city …” So their sensitivity analysis tries to prove that no single Russian long-range nuclear weapon can survive even if the U.S. nuclear weapons are not as effective as assumed. However, the real problem is that if the United States does not know where some nuclear weapons are in Russia or China, the United States cannot destroy them even with superior numbers and performance of nuclear weapons. It is instructive to know that once the Soviet Union (and later, Russia) felt that it had a sufficient number of nuclear weapons to survive a first U.S. nuclear strike, it chose to sign the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties (START) I and II that entail on-site inspections to verify the numbers and locations of the Russian long-range nuclear weapons. If Russia feels that not a single one of its nuclear weapons can survive a first strike by the United States, it may consider not revealing all its nuclear weapons to the United States. In fact, unlike the START treaties, the new Moscow Treaty does not require similar on-site inspections. It is evident, even more so in China’s case, that it has never declared the number or location of its nuclear weapons. Naturally, the United States relies on its intelligence to identify and locate China’s nuclear weapons and then uses this information to decipher which objects and how many objects appear to be nuclear weapons and where they are located. The calculations in their paper do prove that the United States can destroy all the objects that have been identified by U.S. intelligence as nuclear weapons. However, the paper misses the central point of whether the entirety of Chinese long-range nuclear weapons have been identified and located by U.S. intelligence or whether all the objects that are identified in China are real nuclear weapons. The paper simply omits possible deficiencies of intelligence. Furthermore, the performance of U.S. intelligence in the first Iraq war and the Kosovo war suggests that the United States may miss more than just a few large military targets. Technically speaking, it is a relatively simple countermeasure for China to conceal a few actual ICBMs and to deploy decoy missiles – given the large size of the Chinese territory. No matter how the United States increases the number, accuracy, and reliability of its nuclear weapons, even if used in a surprise attack, it has no means of destroying those Chinese ICBMs that its intelligence has not found. Thus, there is no method or model by which Lieber and Press can determine with any certainty that the number of surviving Chinese ICBMs after a surprise U.S. strike (equal to the number of undetected Chinese ICBMs) will be zero, and it seems far more likely survivability would be greater than zero. The definitive conclusion that the surviving Chinese ICBMs must be zero is technically wrong as it omits the intelligence deficiency. The uncertainties of the calculations in the paper are much greater and much more serious than indicated by the authors, and certainly goes beyond their single scenario of an enemy target surviving because a U.S. submarine commander does not believe his launch order. However, the greatest concern is that U.S. leaders actually believe that zero retaliation from China is possible, as predicted by Lieber and Press, and behave incautiously. Zero retaliation is an illusion, and if taken seriously it would bring dire risks to the United States.</span></span>

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2AC—Navy Addon</span>== 
**The U.S. is over-extended—plan’s key to divert money to the navy**
**Sinnreich 10**—master's degree in foreign affairs from Ohio State, former Army Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Richard Hart, 2 August 2010, Choices Left Unmade, [[http://security.nationaljournal.com/2010/08/us-military-power-preeminence.php]], RBatra)
We're not Edwardian Britons. But we suffer from comparable strategic over-extension. I don't suggest that we abandon old friends or ignore new enemies. I do believe that it's past time to prioritize both. Personally, I find it incomprehensible that we're more willing to invest billions in South-central Asia than in Mexico, more willing to maintain U.S. ground forces in a South Korea perfectly capable of defending itself than to spend the same money to refurbish and expand dangerously declining naval capabilities, and more willing to expand our military presence abroad than to find alternative ways of managing a terrorist threat that I consider to be overblown in any case.
Those who would frame the issue as a contest between continued overseas engagement and irresponsible withdrawal trivialize the problem. Neither our prosperity nor our sense of responsibility would allow us to withdraw altogether from overseas involvement, including military involvement. But we have the right as well as the obligation to define for ourselves the terms of that engagement, and to restrict it -- and the military capabilities it underwrites -- to commitments that our resources are able to support.
**That’s key to deter and stop great power war**
**Conway 7**, et al (James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, [[@http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]]) 
Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous to global stability as war among major powers. Maintenance and extension of this Nation’s comparative seapower advantage is a key component of deterring major power war. While war with another great power strikes many as improbable, the near-certainty of its ruinous effects demands that it be actively deterred using all elements of national power. The expeditionary character of maritime forces—our lethality, global reach, speed, endurance, ability to overcome barriers to access, and operational agility—provide the joint commander with a range of deterrent options. We will pursue an approach to deterrence that includes a credible and scalable ability to retaliate against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces. Win our Nation’s wars. In times of war, our ability to impose local sea control, overcome challenges to access, force entry, and project and sustain power ashore, makes our maritime forces an indispensable element of the joint or combined force. This expeditionary advantage must be maintained because it provides joint and combined force commanders with freedom of maneuver. Reinforced by a robust sealift capability that can concentrate and sustain forces, sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore. 

==[[#_Toc271195031]]== 
**Withdrawal will crush Obama’s political capital – Carter proves**
**Feffer, 04** –contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of //North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis// (6/23/04, John, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]], JMP)
North Korea has argued that it is under threat of U.S. attack and considers U.S. troops in South Korea a longstanding provocation. So let's try something new by putting U.S. troop presence on the negotiating table. With the advice and consent of our South Korean allies, the Bush administration should offer a timetable for the removal of all U.S. troops from the peninsula. A Democrat would be hard pressed to offer such a deal. When Jimmy Carter tried to withdraw U.S. troops from the peninsula, he hit major resistance from Washington insiders. Only the hawks in Washington have the political capital to push through a complete withdrawal.
Plan’s massively unpopular – Congress, Pentagon, and South Korea lobbies oppose
<span class="tagChar">Harrison 2</span> (Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement, p. 180-182)
Why has the <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">presence of U.S</span></span>. ground f<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">orces in South Korea remained politically inviolate in Washington for nearly five decades</span></span>? Part of <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the answer lies in</span></span> the searing psychological legacy of the Ko¬rean War and the resulting <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">imagery of North Korea as</span></span> irrational and <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">threatening,</span></span> a new "Yellow Peril," <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">an imagery inflated by fears </span></span>that it will develop long-range missiles. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This imagery has persisted</span></span> despite the North-South summit meeting of June 2000 and the subsequent visits of North Korea's second-ranking leader, Vice-Marshal Jo Myong Rok, to Washington, and of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to Pyong¬yang. Indeed, Albright was widely criticized for legitimizing a brutal dictatorship. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Some of the answer lies in the superficial appeal of the strategic arguments</span></span> examined in part 5: <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">that the U.S. presence helps stabilize</span></span> a volatile part of the world <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">and that any change in the U.S. posture would be seen as a "retreat" from Asia</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">But the key reason</span></span> why <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">States is stuck to South Korea "like Brer Rabbit</span></span> was <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">to the Tar Baby" is that Seoul has shown remarkable skill and determination in resisting any change. The impact of the negative images and the positive strategic arguments has been maximized over the years by sustained and effective South Korean lobbying efforts, aided by sympathizers in the Pentagon and in defense industries with a stake in Korea. The payoffs to members of Congress</span></span> exposed in the 1976 "Koreagate" scandal <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">were not isolated cases</span></span>. A former Washington station chief of the South Korean CIA, Gen. Kim Yoon Ho, has told of how <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">he arranged support for legislation relating to</span></span> U.S. military aid and the <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U.S. force presence by channeling big export contracts to states with cooperative representatives</span></span> in Congress, especially exports subsidized under a variety of U.S. economic and military aid programs. The manipulation of pricing in such contracts offered easy opportunities for rake-offs to middlemen. In South Korean eyes, anything that will keep the United States in South Korea is morally justified because Washington was largely to blame for the division of the peninsula and remains obligated to stay until reunifica¬tion is achieved. "<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The South Korean Embassy swings a lot of weight in Washington</span></span>," observed David E. Brown, former director of Korean affairs in the State Department, in 1997. "Long-tended friendships between conservatives in both capitals give extra potency to the political clout they wield."' <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">South Korean influence in Washington has been reinforced by the support of legions of U.S. military officers</span></span> with fond memories of their years in Korea. The semi-imperial trappings of U.S. military life there are epitomized by three eighteen-hole golf courses, one of which occupied some of the most valuable real estate in Seoul until former Ambassador James Lilley persuaded the U.S. Army to relocate it. "The pain it took to do this," Lilley recalled, "is symptomatic of the military's resistance to giving up its perks. They told me about how they have to keep up morale to retain personnel, but you can't do this at the expense of your relations with the host country."" For officers with their families, the nine U.S. military installations in the South are self-sufficient enclaves equipped with most of the comforts of home and largely insulated from the local society. For the footloose, there are kiesang hostesses, the Korean equiva¬lent of Japanese geisha. Most important, for the top brass of the U.S. Army, Korea is the last and only place left in the world where a four-star general can be a "commander in chief" presiding over an operational command in a foreign country. All of the nine other "CinCs" with re¬gional and functional commands have their headquarters in the United States.

==2AC - AT DA Reunification Bad== 

**Reunification’s inevitable**
**Parker 3** – U.S. Colonel (Richard H. Parker, “US Military Presence in a Unified Korea,” Strategy Research Project, 4/7/03, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414532]])
Recently, top aides to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld stated that the United States should consider reducing its military presence in Korea—without abandoning its responsibility to protect a close ally. They argue that with the tremendous capabilities provided by modern technology, coupled with a much more powerful South Korea military, an opportunity exists to drawdown forces.1 According to many, Korean unification is no longer a question of “if”, but simply “when”. 2 Once it occurs, there will be demands from both sides of the Pacific for reduction, or complete withdrawal, of US forces from Korea. Although North Korea’s public admission of a nuclear weapon program3 causes immediate concern, the greater issue may be whether a unified Korea maintains a nuclear weapon capability—or, whether Japan heads in that direction.

**Reunification is key to East Asian Stability**
<span class="cite">Shuja 3<span style="font-weight: normal;">—Assistant Professor of International Relations’03 (Sharif M., “Korean Unification, August, Adjunct Assistant Professor of International Relations at Bond University, Queensland, </span></span>**<span class="cite">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2242/is_1651_283/ai_107897403/?tag=content;col1]]</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">, jkim)</span></span>
Unification would also change the tenor of relations in northeast Asia. With a single democratic government on the Korean Peninsula, many regional sources of tension would vanish. While a united Korea's chosen alliances and alignments might matter greatly to the powers of the Pacific, they would probably not constitute a casus belli. With open and accountable governance, civilian rule and enthusiasm for commercial progress, a united Korea's foreign policy would likely be moderate and pragmatic--as the ROK's foreign policy beyond the peninsula is today. A united Korea's domestic arrangements could also affect international politics; the example of a solid civil society in Korea would support neighbouring Russia's quest for stable civil institutions and encourage their development in China. The spillover economic benefits of reunification also have a political payoff, integrating the countries of the region in a set of cooperative commercial relationships. The striking point about a successful Korean reunification is that it would benefit all the populations of northeast Asia. Those dividends are by no means assured, but careful and concerted effort can bring them within each. The foregoing implications are reason enough to venture into a speculation about a possibility of Korean reunification. 
**Global nuclear war**
Ogura & **Oh, 97** – *teaches Marxist Economics at Toyama University in Japan, AND **teaches political economy at Waikato University in New Zealand (Toshimura Ogura and Ingyu Oh, Monthly Review, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” April 1997, [[@http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n11_v48/ai_19693242/pg_8]])**
**North Korea, South Korea, and Japan have achieved quasi- or virtual nuclear armament. Although these countries do not produce or possess actual bombs, they possess sufficient technological know-how to possess one or several nuclear arsenals. Thus, virtual armament creates a new nightmare in this region - nuclear annihilation. Given the concentration of economic affluence and military power in this region and its growing importance to the world system, any hot conflict among these countries would threaten to escalate into a global conflagration.**

==2AC-Environment==

Non-unique—
a. multiple development projects are already destroying DMZ ecosystems
Soh 2k **(Ji-young, 31 October 2000, [DMZ Ecosystem] DMZ-Ecological Paradise in Jeopardy, [[http://www.mtholyoke.edu/%7Ejeehan/ppage4p.html|http://www.mtholyoke.edu/~jeehan/ppage4p.html]], RBatra)**
**Local groups in Kyonggi and Kangwon Province are hurrying to develop the area into a major tourist site, and major corporations are also eyeing the area for launching future projects that promise to be lucrative. Other ideas such as building a veterans museum, a meeting center for separated families, an industrial complex, or cultivating the area for farming are being proposed. Even more serious is the damage which is being done at this very moment. Environmentalists' concerns do not seem farfetched, as some valuable habitats and swamps located near the Sachon River have already shown damage due to the preliminary construction of the railroad. As the railroad and highway are about to be built straight across the Sachon River, the destruction of the river's ecosystem is also considered unavoidable. ``The government is recklessly overturning 10m of soil to remove the mines, without even considering the migration routes of wild animals,'' said Ahn Chang-hee, director of the Northern Kyonggi Korean Federation for Environmental Movement.**

b. backfiring and railroads – plan’s key to solve forest ecosystems
Washington U 7 **(DMZ's Destruction, no date given but it cites the redevelopment of the Kyung-Eui railroad wich happened in 2007, [[http://soilslab.cfr.washington.edu/esc110/2004Winter/project-examples/Korean%20DMZ/destruction.html]], RBatra)**
**Recently, the effects of redevelopment process of the Kyung-Eui rail road (which is a rail road that connects the South Korea and the North Korea) and other development theories are making a dramatic mood of development on the DMZ which has remained as a ¡°untouched land¡± for over half a century. The governing groups of Kyung-Ki, Kang-Won and many others are hurrying for the touring developments and also large companies like Hyundai are very interested in them either. Some other organizations are suggesting to make a veteran¡¯s memorial, encounter building of dispersed families, supply depot, industrial complex, or farm land. But the environmental experts say that they will cause destruction of the DMZ and the adjacent area as well under the name of development program. As the DMZ is an important resource and an ecological treasurehouse and was secured by an unfortunate contemporary history, strictly preservation premised and organized basis of development must be arranged.**
**Back Fire Tactics**
**Every year around March and April, the adjacent areas around DMZ are destroyed by North and South Korea¡¯s back fire tactics. It is to obtain the field of vision for the guard against the enemy¡¯s penetration, and to obtain the field of fire to fight against whenever the penetration begins. This is one of the reasons why it is hard to find a tree measuring more than the both arms¡¯ span around. Back firing each other led to an end for the perennial plants.**
**Generally, destroyed forests recover to the stable form over a period of time, but the DMZ is not within the purview of it. Annual back fire tactics block the time for the DMZ to recover to a stabilized forest.**
**About 78% of the forests of the DMZ is made up of trees that are under 20 years old. No more than a few years ago, there were fumes like cannon smoke during the Korean War every March and April of the year. Although it was the season for the white crane¡¯s migration, back firing tactic was still active. Many people have witnessed elks and roe deers running out of the forest to the farm lands to escape the fire and smoke. Because of this annual tactical forest fire, wild animals of the DMZ is suffering continuously.**
No impact to biodiversity 
Washington Post 97 **(8/29, Three Studies Show Diversity Can't Guarantee Ecosystem Strength, http://www-tech.mit.edu/V117/N38/shorts2.38w.html, AG)**
**<span class="Underline">Ecologists have long maintained that diversity is one of nature's greatest strengths, but new research suggests that diversity alone does not guarantee strong ecosystems. In findings that could intensify the national debate over endangered species and habitat conservation, three new studies suggest a greater abundance of plant and animal varieties doesn't always translate to better ecological health. At least equally important, the research found, are the types of species and how they interact. Separate experiments in California, Minnesota and Sweden, found that diversity often had little bearing on the performance of ecosystems - at least as measured by the growth and health of native plants. In fact, the communities with the greatest biological richness were often the poorest in terms of productivity and nutrient cycling. One study compared plant life on 50 remote islands in northern Sweden that are prone to frequent wildfires from lightning strikes. Scientist David Wardle of Landcare Research in Lincoln, New Zealand, and colleagues at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences found that islands dominated by few species of plants recovered more quickly than nearby islands with more biological diversity. Similar findings were reported by University of Minnesota researchers who studied savannah grasses, and by Stanford's Vitousek and colleague David Hooper, who concluded that functional characteristics of plant species were more important than the number of varieties in determining how ecosystems performed.</span>**

Precautionary principle is warrantless bad policy making
Simon 95 **(Julian, State of Humanity, p 358-9)**
**<span class="Underline">The argument that because we do not know how many species are being extinguished, we should therefore take steps to protect them, is logically indistinguishable from the argument that because we do not know at what rate the angels dancing on the head of a pin are dying off, we should undertake a vast program to preserve them. And it smacks of the condemnation to death of witches in Salem on the basis of “spectral evidence” by “afflicted” young girls, changes that the accused could not rebut with any conceivable material evidence. If something is unknowable at present but knowable in principle, then the appropriate thing is to find out. This does not necessarily mean finding out by direct observation only. A solid chain of empirical evidence can lead to a reasonable conclusion. But there must be some reasonable chain of evidence and reasoning. If something is unknowable in principle, at least with contemporary techniques, then there is no warrant for any public actions whatsoever. To assert otherwise is to open the door to public actions and expenditures on behalf of anyone who can generate an exciting and frightening hypothetical scenario.</span>**




==<span class="Underline">2AC - Consult NATO</span>== 


<span class="Underline">perm, defensive args, theory</span>


NATO says no—they won’t rubber stamp any U.S. policies
Kolko 3 **(Gabriel, research professor emeritus at York University in Toronto, CounterPunch, "A Geopolitical Earthquake?" www.counterpunch.org/kolko02182003.html, Downloaded on 2-15-2005)**

**Today, NATO's original raison d'être of imposing American hegemony is now the core of the controversy that is now raging. Washington cannot sustain this grandiose objective because a reunited Germany is far too powerful to be treated as it was a half-century ago, and Germany has its own interests in the Middle East and Asia to protect. Germany and France's independence is reinforced by inept American propaganda on the relationship of Iraq to Al-Qaeda (from which the CIA and British MI6 have openly distanced themselves), overwhelming antiwar public opinion in many nations, and a great deal of opposition within the U. S. establishment and many senior military men to a war with Iraq. The furious American response to Germany, France, and Belgium's refusal, under article 4 of the NATO treaty, to protect Turkey from an Iraqi counterattack because that would prejudge the Security Council's decision on war and peace is only a contrived reason for confronting fundamental issues that have simmered for many years. The dispute was far more about symbolism than substance, and the point has been made: some NATO members refuse to allow the organization to serve as a rubber stamp for American policy, whatever it may be.**



NATO cohesion low now and NATO is useless
Bacevich, IR prof, 9 **(Andrew, a professor of history and international relations at Boston University, “How do we save NATO? We quit”, April 02, 2009, http://articles.latimes.com/2009/apr/02/opinion/oe-bacevich2, ZBurdette)**

**Over time, the Soviet threat diminished and eventually disappeared. Since then, however, an alliance once regarded as the most successful in all of history has lost its way. When the end of the Cold War left Russia temporarily weakened, the United States and its allies wasted no time in exploiting that weakness. NATO pressed eastward, incorporating into its ranks nations that had previously formed part of the Soviet empire and of the Soviet Union itself. American policymakers urged the alliance to expand its reach, abandoning its defensive posture to become an instrument of intervention. According to the conventional wisdom of the 1990s, NATO needed to go "out of area" or it would surely go "out of business." This program of enlarging both NATO's territorial expanse and its ambitions has now reached an impasse. Through its military punishment of Georgia last year, Russia has signaled it will not tolerate further encroachments into what the Kremlin sees as its legitimate sphere of influence. Meanwhile, through its ineffective performance in Afghanistan -- NATO's most ambitious "out of area" contingency -- the alliance has revealed the extent to which its capabilities and its cohesion have eroded. Present-day NATO is a shadow of what it once was. Calling it a successful alliance today is the equivalent of calling General Motors a successful car company -- it privileges nostalgia over self-awareness.**



NATO is resilient – any disputes are self-correcting
Thies 9 —**has held full-time teaching positions in political science at U Conn, UC Berkeley, and the Catholic University of America. PhD, pol sci, Yale. (Wallace, Why NATO Endures, 18-23, AMiles)**

**Consider next the goal of relating changes in situational context – from noncrisis to crisis and then back again – to changes in behavior, processes, and outcomes. A crisis, James Christoph has suggested, offers an opportunity to view a political system under greater-than-usual stresses and strains.92 What actually happens when NATO is supposedly in crisis? Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the NATO-in-crisis literature is how little it has to say on this question other than that officials in various NATO capitals become angry with each other, criticize one another, maybe even insult each other, and so on. But this is a thoroughly unsatisfactory answer for at least three reasons. First, there are strong theoretical grounds for believing that tensions and strains among NATO members are normal rather than exceptional. Two important literatures – (1) realism (both the classical and structural variants)93 and (2) collective goods theory 94 – highlight different independent variables, but they both suggest that conflict within NATO is to be expected. And there certainly is a lot of evidence to support their claims in this regard. Presidents and prime ministers have come and gone, governments of the center-left have supplanted those of the center-right and vice versa, but for more than half a century now NATOmembers have been more or less continually at odds on how the costs and risks of looking after their common interests both within Europe and outside it should be apportioned among themselves. Since there is abundant evidence that just about every member believes it is doing more than its fair share while the others are not, 95 these intra-NATO disputes about who should do what and who should pay for what are a constant feature within the Alliance and thus insufficient to justify the term ‘‘crisis.’’ Second, a long-term alliance of liberal democracies should have strong selfhealing tendencies. Even Robert Kagan, one of the more strident proponents of the claim that NATO is doomed,96 concedes that the urge to reconcile will always be strong because democracies find it difficult to ‘‘operate effectively over time without the moral support and approval of the [rest of the] democratic world.’’97 Precisely because NATO is the most successful alliance ever created, it has become ‘‘a symbol of unity used by every ally with demands to make on one another.’’98 As long as there is a NATO, its members can use appeals to Alliance solidarity to gain leverage in their dealings with one another – leverage that would be lost forever if they acted the way the NATO-in-crisis literature suggests they want to or will act. Third, a long-term alliance of liberal democracies will likely develop multiple lines of cleavage and agreement running through it. Just because a few members disagree on one or even several issues, it doesn’t mean that all members disagree about everything or even about a lot of things.99 Hence members who disagree at present are unlikely to push those disagreements too far because they don’t want to jeopardize (1) their relations with the members that are not much involved in the latest intra-NATO spat, and (2) the uncontroversial parts of their relationship with those with whom they do disagree. The NATO-in-crisis literature by and large overlooks these selfhealing tendencies because it focuses almost entirely on how NATO crises begin. But these self-healing tendencies are important (1) because they help us understand how and why NATO survives despite the repeated claims that collapse is imminent, and (2) they suggest that the healing process will already have begun even as the gloom-and-doom brigade is proclaiming that the end is near (again). If we are to understand why NATO has shown such ‘‘remarkable resilience and adaptability ,’’100 we need to know not only how and why these so-called crises begin but also what happens as they blossom, wane, and then fade away. getting out of a blind alley A scholarly concept like ‘‘crisis’’ is valuable only to the extent that it contributes to cumulative knowledge about an important subject, like alliances in general and NATO in particular. It can do so in three ways: (1) by identifying a class of situations that have enough in common that they can be reliably distinguished from situations outside the class, (2) by facilitating comparisons among items that fall within the class, for example, the relative severity or intensity of NATO crises, and (3) by contributing to the development of empirically verifiable hypotheses that relate variations in situational context (crisis vs. noncrisis – the independent variable) to variations in political behavior, political processes, and political outcomes (the dependent variables). On all three counts, the NATO-in-crisis literature is sadly deficient. Concerning the first of these, the NATO-in-crisis literature tells us next to nothing about what actually happens when NATO is said to be in crisis, other than that members grow exasperated with each other, their representatives behave badly in public, and so on. Second, the NATO-in-crisis literature has little to say about why NATO is the longest lasting and by far the most successful multilateral alliance since the emergence of the modern state system; indeed, the NATO-in-crisis literature strongly suggests that NATO’s accomplishments should not have occurred and that the Alliance should have collapsed years ago. Third, by focusing on how the latest crisis is both new and different – and thus a plausible candidate for the label ‘‘worst ever’’ – the NATO-in-crisis literature has severely limited the prospects for cumulative knowledge about the Alliance. In short, the NATO-in-crisis literature highlights essentially transient phenomena – bad language, petty behavior – while neglecting interesting possibilities such as self-healing tendencies that allow the Alliance to overcome disagreements among its members, and not just once but again and again. Despite decades of claims that the Atlantic Alliance stands on the brink of collapse, we know little more about what this brink looks like, and what it means for political behavior and political outcomes, than we did when warnings that the Alliance was in crisis first began to circulate in the 1950s. Indeed, observers writing about NATO in the twenty-first century continue to use the same tired cliche´s and strained metaphors as generations of their predecessors. It is this absence of cumulative knowledge that is the NATO-in-crisis literature’s defining characteristic. If we are to get out of this conceptual blind alley, there are three lines of inquiry that should be pursued. First, has any member of the Atlantic Alliance ever crossed the crisis threshold, in the sense of becoming indifferent between staying in and getting out? There are three reasons for believing that the answer to this question is ‘‘no.’’ First, during the Cold War, as structural realist writers have repeatedly pointed out, rivalry with the Soviet Union was a powerful force for cohesion within NATO.101 Realignment of the sort that was common during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries was effectively precluded by the combination of bipolarity and the East– West ideological split. Only the United States could offset Soviet power in Europe, and the Soviet Union was an unsuitable partner for reasons that require no elaboration. Second, since the end of the Cold War, institutionalist writers such as John Duffield, Robert McCalla, and Celeste Wallander have offered reasons why the Alliance not only endures but thrives, in the sense of taking on new members and new missions.102 Third, in no small part because of reasons one and two, there are few obvious cases of members even approaching the crisis threshold, aside from Great Britain in 1956 (Suez), West Germany in 1957–1958 (the Kampf dem Atomtod103), and maybe Greece in 1974 (Turkey invades Cypress).104 Even if the answer to the crisis threshold question is indeed ‘‘no,’’ there is still the apparent paradox identified earlier – namely, alliances other than NATO are almost never said to be in crisis despite their propensity to collapse, while NATO is often said to be in crisis, despite expanding and even thriving. Upon closer examination, this disparity in the treatment of NATO and other alliances proves to be not very surprising. The alliances found in pre-1939, multipolar Europe were generally formed for a single reason – to steal a province or two from a rival, to gain added strength in anticipation of a looming conflict, to gain some say over another state’s policies in order to prevent it from causing trouble.105 The near-equality in power among the leading states of multipolar Europe and the absence of divisive ideological issues meant that prospective allies were often plentiful rather than few. States with several potential allies to choose from (plus the option of neutrality) and only a few interests in common are likely to be quick to contemplate alternatives to current alliance arrangements. Alliances that rest on a narrow base of shared interests are likely to shatter when those interests are called into question by a better opportunity elsewhere. Put differently, a few shared interests are unlikely to induce political leaders to do the work needed to repair an alliance (or even agonize over whether to do so) once the prospect of something better appears on their political horizon. Pre-1939 alliances rarely lasted long enough to experience a ‘‘crisis’’ stage in their existence; their members simply abandoned each other in favor of new arrangements with other partners. The Atlantic Alliance, in contrast, was never intended to rest on just one or a few common interests. It was intended to be a permanent alliance among liberal democratic states that had so many interests in common that they preferred to act collectively rather than look out for themselves individually. 106 Hence even when NATO members disagree (and maybe disagree intensely) on one or a few issues, they are still likely to agree on many other issues, and because they agree on many things and not just a few, they are much less likely than pre-1939 allies to push disagreements to the point at which they become indifferent between exerting themselves to repair the rifts among them and looking for new arrangements elsewhere. Pre-1939, statesmen often tried to bait their allies into doing something that would provide a pretext for dissolving an unwanted alliance, or even provoke them into breaking the alliance themselves. NATO members, in contrast, have not tried to provoke each other into withdrawing from the obligations specified by the North Atlantic Treaty; indeed, suggestions that NATO members should even try to do so are virtually nonexistent.107 In effect, it is precisely because NATO members agree on so many things that they can afford to engage in prolonged tussles over one or a few points of disagreement. What has appeared to so many as a source of weakness is better understood as a source of strength. Pre-1939 allies generally did not engage in prolonged bickering over the terms of their partnership; they just abandoned each other in search of better arrangements elsewhere. NATO members bicker all the time, but they invariably find ways to reconcile too. Hence a second line of inquiry should be to look more carefully at what sets NATO apart from pre1939 alliances and post-1945 alliances outside of Europe. What happened when the members of those alliances had to choose between pleasing an ally and confronting it? How did they respond, and why? These questions are the subject of Chapters 2, 3, and 4. Third, why have NATO members stuck with each other for so long despite so many irritations and mutual exasperation? Two complementary lines of research suggest themselves here. First, it was suggested earlier that NATO exhibits important self-healing tendencies – specifically, the greater the value that NATO members place on their relationships with other members who are not much involved in the current crisis (alternatively, the greater the value that they place on issues or forms of cooperation that are not part of the current dispute), the more willing they should be to make the exertions necessary to reconcile with those members with whom they are disputing something. The fact that the Alliance has survived so many allegedly fatal crises suggests that something more than luck is involved here. We need to know what that something is.**



==<span class="Underline">2AC - K Security</span>== 
<span class="Underline"> Evolution proves violence is inevitable and explains realism </span>


Thayer 4 – **Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi]**

**<span class="Underline">The central issue here is what causes states to behave as offensive realists predict. Mearsheimer advances a powerful argument that anarchy is the fundamental cause of such behavior. The fact that there is no world government compels the leaders of states to take steps to ensure their security, such as striving to have a powerful military, aggressing when forced to do so, and forging and maintaining alliances. This is what neorealists call a self-help system: leaders of states are forced to take these steps because nothing else can guarantee their security in the anarchic world of international relations. I argue that evolutionary theory also offers a fundamental cause for offensive realist behavior. Evolutionary theory explains why individuals are motivated to act as offensive realism expects, whether an individual is a captain of industry or a conquistador. My argument is that anarchy is even more important than most scholars of international relations recognize. The human environment of evolutionary adaptation was anarchic; our ancestors lived in a state of nature in which resources were poor and dangers from other humans and the environment were great—so great that it is truly remarkable that a mammal standing three feet high—without claws or strong teeth, not particularly strong or swift—survived and evolved to become what we consider human. Humans endured because natural selection gave them the right behaviors to last in those conditions. This environment produced the behaviors examined here: egoism, domination, and the in-group/out-group distinction. These specific traits are sufficient to explain why leaders will behave, in the proper circumstances, as offensive realists expect them to behave. That is, even if they must hurt other humans or risk injury to themselves, they will strive to maximize their power, defined as either control over others (for example, through wealth or leadership) or control over ecological circumstances (such as meeting their own and their family's or tribes need for food, shelter, or other resources).</span>**

<span class="Underline">No impact </span>
O’Kane 97 – **Prof Comparative Political Theory, U Keele (Rosemary, “Modernity, the Holocaust and politics,” Economy and Society 26:1, p 58-9, AG)**

**<span class="Underline">Modern bureaucracy is not 'intrinsically capable of genocidal action' (Bauman 1989: 106). Centralized state coercion has no natural move to terror. In the explanation of modern genocides it is chosen policies which play the greatest part, whether in effecting bureaucratic secrecy, organizing forced labour, implementing a system of terror, harnessing science and technology or introducing extermination policies, as means and as ends. As Nazi Germany and Stalin's USSR have shown, furthermore, those chosen policies of genocidal government turned away from and not towards modernity. The choosing of policies, however, is not independent of circumstances. An analysis of the history of each case plays an important part in explaining where and how genocidal governments come to power and analysis of political institutions and structures also helps towards an understanding of the factors which act as obstacles to modern genocide. But it is not just political factors which stand in the way of another Holocaust in modern society. Modern societies have not only pluralist democratic political systems but also economic pluralism where workers are free to change jobs and bargain wages and where independent firms, each with their own independent bureaucracies, exist in competition with state-controlled enterprises. In modern societies this economic pluralism both promotes and is served by the open scientific method. By ignoring competition and the capacity for people to move between organizations whether economic, political, scientific or social, Bauman overlooks crucial but also very 'ordinary and common' attributes of truly modern societies. It is these very ordinary and common attributes of modernity which stand in the way of modern genocides. </span>**

<span class="Underline">Epistemology not first </span>
Owen 2—**Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton (David, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)**

**<span class="Underline">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology” often signals this philosophical turn’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, such a philosophical turn is not without its dangers and I will briefly mention three before turning to consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that it has an inbuilt tendency to prioritise issues of ontology and epistemology over explanatory and/or interpretive power as if the latter two were merely a simple function of the former. But while the explanatory and/or interpretive power of a theoretical account is not wholly independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), it is by no means clear that it is, in contrast, wholly dependent on these philosophical commitments. Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded. It may, of course, be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful in accounting for this class of problems (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) and, if this is the case, it is a philosophical weakness—but this does not undermine the point that, for a certain class of problems, rational choice theory may provide the best account available to us. In other words, while the critical judgement of theoretical accounts in terms of their ontological and/or epistemological sophistication is one kind of critical judgement, it is not the only or even necessarily the most important kind. The second danger run by the philosophical turn is that because prioritisation of ontology and epistemology promotes theory-construction from philosophical first principles, it cultivates a theory-driven rather than problem-driven approach to IR. Paraphrasing Ian Shapiro, the point can be put like this: since it is the case that there is always a plurality of possible true descriptions of a given action, event or phenomenon, the challenge is to decide which is the most apt in terms of getting a perspicuous grip on the action, event or phenomenon in question given the purposes of the inquiry; yet, from this standpoint, ‘theory-driven work is part of a reductionist program’ in that it ‘dictates always opting for the description that calls for the explanation that flows from the preferred model or theory’.5 The justification offered for this strategy rests on the mistaken belief that it is necessary for social science because general explanations are required to characterise the classes of phenomena studied in similar terms. However, as Shapiro points out, this is to misunderstand the enterprise of science since ‘whether there are general explanations for classes of phenomena is a question for social-scientific inquiry, not to be prejudged before conducting that inquiry’.6 Moreover, this strategy easily slips into the promotion of the pursuit of generality over that of empirical validity. The third danger is that the preceding two combine to encourage the formation of a particular image of disciplinary debate in IR—what might be called (only slightly tongue in cheek) ‘the Highlander view’—namely, an image of warring theoretical approaches with each, despite occasional temporary tactical alliances, dedicated to the strategic achievement of sovereignty over the disciplinary field. It encourages this view because the turn to, and prioritisation of, ontology and epistemology stimulates the idea that there can only be one theoretical approach which gets things right, namely, the theoretical approach that gets its ontology and epistemology right. This image feeds back into IR exacerbating the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>**

nk/ china real threats

The role of the ballot’s to simulate policy action—it’s a voter—

<span class="Underline">a. Predictability—other frameworks are infinite and unclear, causing judge intervention and making it impossible for the aff to win</span>

<span class="Underline">b. Education—our framework is key to understand policy language and shape real-world change. Even if you don’t have to defend a concrete option, the ballot should only focus on which political strategy is preferable—key to effective debate</span>
McClean 1, **SOCIETY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF AMERICAN PHILOSOPHY – GRADUATE AND PHILOSOPHER – NYU [DAVID E., “THE CULTURAL LEFT AND THE LIMITS OF SOCIAL HOPE”, http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/2001%20Conference/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]**

**<span class="Underline">Leftist American culture critics might put their considerable talents to better use if they bury some of their cynicism about America's social and political prospects and help forge public and political possibilities in a spirit of determination to, indeed, achieve our country - the country of Jefferson and King; the country of John Dewey and Malcom X; the country of Franklin Roosevelt and Bayard Rustin, and of the later George Wallace and the later Barry Goldwater. To invoke the words of King, and with reference to the American society, the time is always ripe to seize the opportunity to help create the "beloved community," one woven with the thread of agape into a conceptually single yet diverse tapestry that shoots for nothing less than a true intra-American cosmopolitan ethos, one wherein both same sex unions and faith-based initiatives will be able to be part of the same social reality, one wherein business interests and the university are not seen as belonging to two separate galaxies but as part of the same answer to the threat of social and ethical nihilism. We who fancy ourselves philosophers would do well to create from within ourselves and from within our ranks a new kind of public intellectual who has both a hungry theoretical mind and who is yet capable of seeing the need to move past high theory to other important questions that are less bedazzling and "interesting" but more important to the prospect of our flourishing - questions such as "How is it possible to develop a citizenry that cherishes a certain hexis, one which prizes the character of the Samaritan on the road to Jericho almost more than any other?" or "How can we square the political dogma that undergirds the fantasy of a missile defense system with the need to treat America as but one member in a community of nations under a "law of peoples?"</span>**
**<span class="Underline">The new public philosopher might seek to understand labor law and military and trade theory and doctrine as much as theories of surplus value; the logic of international markets and trade agreements as much as critiques of commodification, and the politics of complexity as much as the politics of power (all of which can still be done from our arm chairs.) This means going down deep into the guts of our quotidian social institutions, into the grimy pragmatic details where intellectuals are loathe to dwell but where the officers and bureaucrats of those institutions take difficult and often unpleasant, imperfect decisions that affect other peoples' lives, and it means making honest attempts to truly understand how those institutions actually function in the actual world before howling for their overthrow commences. This might help keep us from being slapped down in debates by true policy pros who actually know what they are talking about but who lack awareness of the dogmatic assumptions from which they proceed, and who have not yet found a good reason to listen to jargon-riddled lectures from philosophers and culture critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."</span>**




==2AC - Deterrence DA== 


<span class="Underline">Airpower will inevitably decline—collapses alliance credibility</span>
Auslin 10—**former associate history professor @ Yale, AEI's director of Japan Studies (Michael, 19 August 2010, Make No Mistake, Air Power Keeps Us Safe, http://www.aei.org/article/102438, RBatra)**

**<span class="Underline">Yet since the fall of the Soviet Union and in the counterinsurgency wars that define Iraq and Afghanistan, air superiority has not been an issue. Unfortunately, the result is an increasing neglect of America's air forces. As much as the Navy, the Air Force provides a unique global reach and presence for America. Indeed, given the vast distances the U.S. must cover in order to fight wars, provide humanitarian assistance, and keep an eye on crisis spots, the Air Force is even more crucial in ensuring timely, nearly instantaneous response.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">But in current defense plans, the Air Force has to keep flying 30-year old fighters until the new F-35 comes on line only slowly later in this decade. In the meantime, it will retire 250 F-15s and F-16s before they can be replaced by the F-35, putting further stress on combat readiness and ability to contribute in Afghanistan.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Last year, the White House killed the F-22 program, prematurely ending production of the most advanced fighter in the world, and leaving Air Force commanders with a fraction of the F-22s they need to ensure air superiority and to use as the most flexible intelligence asset in the sky.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Bombing runs are carried out by bombers built as long ago as the early 1960s, and our planes are refueled by half-century old tankers.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Secretary of Defense Robert Gates canceled, then restarted the next generation bomber program, meaning there will be no new bomber at least until 2025, and the Pentagon has been trying to kill the C-17, America's most advanced transport plane, even as demand for airlift operations is prematurely aging the fleet.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Some may question why the U.S. needs such a large air force, when no other country has even a fraction of our capabilities. But no other nation has America's global responsibilities, either.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">A modern, balanced air force is a central ingredient in America's defense strategy, and is the prerequisite to being able to intervene in the earliest stages of a conflict.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Moreover, American airmen will soon face more capable adversaries, as other nations are building up their air forces, most notably China, which is introducing advanced fighter aircraft and new weapons designed to keep U.S. aircraft carriers at bay, and Russia, which has just test flown a fifth-generation challenger to America's F-22.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Even more worrisome, countries such as Iran and North Korea are installing integrated air defenses that only our tiny fleet of F-22s can be assured of penetrating. Our capability of entering any airspace we want to will be steadily degraded in coming years, reducing the credibility of our defensive alliances with countries such as South Korea and Japan.</span>**


<span class="Underline">Plan causes troop shift to Japan—no risk of ending their alliance</span>
Bandow 98 – **Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance (Doug Bandow, “America’s Obsolete Korean Commitment”, Orbis, 42(4), Fall, Ebsco)**

**<span class="Underline">Seoul might object to a U.S. attempt to improve relations with the North, but America should not allow its policy to be held hostage by Seoul. Finally, Washington should use the prospect of an American troop withdrawal-something long demanded by Pyongyang-to challenge the North to respond in kind by demobilizing some troops and withdrawing others from their advanced positions along the Demilitarized Zone. The alternative to serious arms reductions would be an ROK military build-up and an arms race that the North could not afford. This program would not oblige the United States to disturb its other security relations in the region, nor would devolving defense responsibility onto the ROK itself prevent the basing of American aircraft, bases, fleets, and troops elsewhere in the region, such as Japan. Neighboring states might be displeased by the US. decision, but they would have to recognize its logic. Over the long term there would be no serious American loss of “credibility,” the all-purpose criticism of any proposed change in the status quo. Credibility is only lost when expectations are not met, but expectations can be changed. Japan, in particular, would have little choice but to accept the American decision, since it would presumably prefer to preserve its own relationship with Washington irrespective of the state of American ties with Seoul. U.S. defense commitments in East Asia survived the loss of Cambodia and Vietnam, earlier partial withdrawals from Korea, and departure from the Philippines. They would survive a pull-out from Korea.</span>**


U.S. would assure Japan – solves prolif
Halloran 5 **(Richard, Former NYT Military Correspondent, “Time for U.S. to Disengage Itself from Korea”, Korea Herald, 2-18, Lexis)**

**<span class="Underline">Complete U.S. disengagement would mean:- Walking away from the six-party talks in Beijing, cutting off all communication with Pyongyang, strengthening economic sanctions, and warning North Korea that any military threat to the United States, to U.S. forces in Asia, and to U.S. allies would be met with terrible retribution. - Withdrawing all U.S. forces from the peninsula and abrogating the U.S.-South Korea mutual security treaty because of rampant anti-Americanism in Seoul, a rising tendency to appease North Korea, and a penchant for blaming the United States for blocking reunification. On the future of Korea, the United States would tell South Korea and North Korea that they themselves must resolve the question of reconciliation or reunification but not to expect American political or economic help. As the United Nations Command in Seoul would be dissolved, the United Nations would be advised that its Security Council would be responsible for executing whatever policies were decided for Korea. Elsewhere, the United States would assure the Japanese that the withdrawal applied only to Korea and that it would fulfill all of its security obligations to Japan. In addition, the United States would pledge full support to Japan in dealing with North Korea on the issue of abducted Japanese citizens and would back Japan on whatever economic sanctions it decided to apply to Pyongyang. Similarly, Washington would reassure Taiwan that the United States would continue to meet its obligations to help defend that island nation under the Taiwan Relations Act. The United States would reassure treaty allies in the Philippines, Thailand, and Australia, and friends such as Singapore, that the United States was not pulling out of Asia. Further, the United States would tell the Chinese, who have been hosts of the six-party talks intended to dissuade North Korea from its nuclear ambitions, that the United States would quietly support Beijing's efforts to contain North Korea. Just as the United States does not want North Korean missiles aimed at Okinawa or Hawaii, so the Chinese do not want North Korean nuclear arms facing them across the Yalu River. The consequences of the U.S. disengagement from Korea would be several. Perhaps most telling would be a more intense isolation of Pyongyang from the outside world. That, in turn, might well increase the internal pressures for reform and even a regime change within North Korea. North Korea's economic disasters resulting from mismanagement and natural causes are well known. Now, even though it is a hermit kingdom, hints are leaking out that not all is well politically and that dissent has begun to rumble through Kim Jong-il's government. Perhaps the regime of the "Dear Leader" will collapse of its own misdeeds. An American disengagement from Korea would most likely nudge Japan to accelerate its already steady move toward a more assertive security posture, which the United States would welcome. There is no reason to believe, however, that this would push Japan to acquire nuclear arms China would be faced with a critical decision. Some years ago, Chinese leaders quietly told American officials that they would do whatever was necessary to keep North Korea afloat and that they have the foreign exchange reserves, which are the world's largest, to do it. Chinese leaders may have since changed their minds and would see Kim Jong-il's departure as advantageous.</span>**


<span class="Underline">Japan can’t prolif</span>
Endo, 07 – **former vice chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission of Japan (8/23/07, Tetsuya, Nautilus Policy Forum Online 07-063A, “How Realistic Is a Nuclear-Armed Japan?” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/07063Endo.html, JMP)**

**<span class="Underline">Feasibility</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Technologically, Japan is capable of developing nuclear weapons if it invests considerable time and money. A major nuclear energy user possessing 55 nuclear reactors and committed to its nuclear fuel cycle program, Japan possesses high-level nuclear technologies, a substantial amount of plutonium and the capability to enrich uranium. Although nearly all this plutonium is reactor-grade plutonium unsuitable for nuclear explosion, Japan does possess a small amount of high-grade plutonium. A majority of its uranium is low-enriched, but Japan is capable of producing highly-enriched uranium if it wishes. Japan indeed retains highly-enriched uranium for use in research and experiments, albeit in an extremely small amount. Nevertheless, it is virtually unthinkable for this country to divert nuclear fuel to make bombs in secret. Its plutonium and uranium are kept under strict IAEA verification, and Japan is a highly transparent society. Even if Japan succeeds in manufacturing nuclear warheads, where is it going to test them? Some people say simulation technology can substitute for an onsite test, but the first nuclear warhead at least would require an onsite test. However, there is no geographically suitable place for such a test in Japan.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Given time, it is not technologically impossible for Japan to develop nuclear weapons as well as their delivery systems. However, developing more than one or two nuclear bombs would require enormous money. There is a huge gap between possessing the technology to produce one or two nuclear bombs and arming oneself with nuclear weapons "effectively".</span>**


<span class="Underline">Presence in Korea sends a global signal of weakness—the plan re-focuses on Air and Naval superiority</span>
O’Hanlon 4 **[Michael, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy Studies, The Sydney Stein, Jr., Chair, The Brookings Institution, “THE STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS OF U.S. TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM KOREA,” Testimony before Committee on Armed Services, US House of Representatives, [H.A.S.C. No. 108–31], 6/15, d/a: 7/15/10, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/security/has167000.000/has167000_0f.htm]**

**<span class="Underline">Now some people would argue—leaving aside the issue of the peninsula, leaving aside the military balance on the peninsula, whether or not the ROK could maintain a robust defensive perimeter on its own—we don't want to send a message to the region more broadly of any kind of weakness or any kind of reduction in our strength. We don't want to take away capability, that Secretary Rumsfeld was discussing in Singapore a short time ago, to increase our ability to deal with possible hotspots in Southeast Asia, in the Taiwan Strait, et cetera. I would agree with that concern, but I would also say that the brigades in Korea have not been very usable for other regional contingencies. They are essentially anchored to Korea. That has always been the logic of their presence. They are among our least flexible military units in the entire U.S. forward deployment. And therefore, taking one of those out of Korea, putting it in Iraq temporarily and then bringing it back to the United States, I believe, actually increases our long-term regional flexibility. And therefore, I would not oppose this change on those grounds, either. It is true the Asia-Pacific remains very important. The Asia-Pacific has a number of possible contingencies we need to think more about, and this committee has been showing the way. I think most of those contingencies are largely naval, Air Force or Marine in nature. But even the ones that may involve the Army would be better served by an Army that is not starting from bases in Korea, because Army forces in Korea are largely, if not exclusively, focused on the Korea contingency. We have been very reluctant ever to redeploy them for any other purpose. Therefore, by keeping them there, you would not be sending a message to the rest of the region of greater capability. You would essentially be tying down some of your long-term capability.</span>**


<span class="Underline">Asia heg dead</span>
Blumenthal, 09 – **resident fellow at AEI (5/1/2009, Dan, Far Eastern Economic Review, “The Erosion of U.S. Power in Asia,” http://www.aei.org/article/100445, JMP)**

**<span class="Underline">When George W. Bush was president, critics of his Asia policy liked to say that America was "getting its derriere kicked" by China. By this the critics meant that the war in Iraq was a big distraction and that the United States was not attending enough Asian multilateral conferences, where it could demonstrate its "soft power."</span>**
**<span class="Underline">While this case against the Bush administration was never wholly convincing, it did contain a kernel of truth. Beijing did gain regional influence at Washington's expense under Mr. Bush's watch. But Beijing did so not through kinder and gentler diplomacy alone; rather, China grew its military at a rapid clip and the region took note.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">If President Bush somewhat neglected this troubling turn in Asia's balance of power, President Barack Obama is doing his predecessor one better. His administration's recent announcement to cut defense programs puts America's long-standing military superiority in the Pacific at risk. If left standing, these cuts--heavily targeted on high-technology weapons systems and "power-projection" platforms essential to preserving that superiority--might mean that America doesn't have much of a derriere left in Asia at all.</span>**





==2AC - ROK Alliance DA== 


Seoul is dependent on Chinese security guarantees—plan carries no risk of ROK proliferation or hurting the alliance—empirically proven
Ross 10—**Professor of Political Science at Boston College, Associate, John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, Harvard University (Robert S., Fall 2010, Orbis, The Rise of Chinese Power and the Implications for the Regional Security Order, 10.1016/j.orbis.2010.07.003, RBatra)**
**<span class="Underline">These trends in South Korean defense policy also explain Seoul’s sanguine response to U.S. troop reduction in South Korea. When Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, at the height of the U.S. preparations for war against North Korea in 2003, proposed removal of U.S. troops from the demilitarized zone and a reduction of U.S. military presence on the peninsula, Seoul merely questioned the timing of the proposal and then entered into negotiations regarding the schedule for U.S. redeployments. In 2004, when the U.S. announced that it would transfer 4,000 troops from South Korea to Iraq and that in 2005 it would reduce its forces in South Korea by one-third, Seoul was not alarmed.15 By the end of the Bush administration, there had been a 40 percent reduction of U.S. troops in South Korea. In the context of South Korean accommodation of the rise of China, U.S. military presence had become less relevant to South Korean security. In 2005, former South Korean Defense Minister Yoon Kwang-ung explained that South Korea planned to be less dependent on its alliance with the United States and that it would increasingly cooperate with Russia and China as it developed a balancer role in Northeast Asia.16</span>**
**<span class="Underline">The rise of China has thus compelled South Korea to accommodate China’s foremost security interest in the Korean Peninsula – minimal great power capabilities on the Korean Peninsula that could challenge Chinese security. The United States and South Korea will remain ‘‘security partners,’’ their militaries will continue to train together, and South Korea will continue to buy advanced U.S. weapons. Nonetheless, South Korea increasingly seeks security primarily through cooperation with China, rather than primarily through cooperation with the United States.</span>**

Troops aren’t key to the nuclear umbrella—Chinese co-operation is key to stop regional prolif
Bandow, 10 – **senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html, JMP)**
**<span class="Underline">What value, then, is the alliance?</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Some proponents view it as a useful tool of nonproliferation, discouraging South Korea from developing a nuclear weapon. However, that possibility remains remote. Although nuclear negotiations with the North hardly look promising, China might yet forcefully weigh in to halt the North Korean program. Moreover, the U.S. could maintain a nuclear umbrella over the ROK without keeping conventional forces on the ground in South Korea, which only act as nuclear hostages vulnerable to DPRK intimidation.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Moreover, the most powerful incentive for Beijing to apply significant pressure on the North to denuclearize (and not just return to the Six-Party talks) is the threat of further proliferation. The People's Republic of China does not fear a North Korean atomic bomb. The PRC might not worry unduly about a South Korean weapon.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">But Japan and even Taiwan might consider joining a growing nuclear parade. That possibility should raise more than eyebrows in Beijing, encouraging a vigorous response to halt the process at the start. The best way to keep the ROK and neighboring states non-nuclear is to make the North non-nuclear. The best way to make North Korea non-nuclear is for the PRC to use its full array of diplomatic and economic tools on Pyongyang.</span>**

Alliance doesn’t deter conflict and withdrawal won’t cause war
Bandow, 08 – **Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812, JMP)**
**<span class="Underline">But if China was not the target of a revamped alliance, what would be the purpose? Aggression by Japan or anyone else is inconceivable. The most common sources of conflict are neither important for U.S. security nor amenable to U.S. military action—Burma, Indonesia, and the Solomon Islands, for example. If South Korea or other nearby states want a local geopolitical policeman, let one or more of them perform that role.</span>**
**<span class="Underline">The pro-alliance mantra includes promoting regional stability, but the contention that East Asia would dissolve into chaos and war without Uncle Sam’s restraining hand is both arrogant and presumptuous. Everyone in the region has an interest in preserving peace and promoting prosperity. North Korea remains a problem state but the threat of war on the Korean peninsula has diminished dramatically; the result of the recent Taiwanese election has moderated fears about potential conflict in the Taiwan Strait. Beyond these two cases, there are no obvious bilateral controversies with much likelihood of flaring into violence.</span>**

Security is independent of broader U.S.-ROK relations
Kang 7 —Professor of Government, Dartmouth College (David C., no date given but latest cited is 2007, Forging an Enduring Foundation for U.S.-Rok Relations, http://www.mansfieldfdn.org/programs/program_pdfs/rok_us_kang.pdf, RBatra)
<span class="Underline">This essay poses one basic question: is it values or interests that ultimately determine the strength of a relationship? With the trend toward greater emphasis on democracy, human rights, and other values as the basis of international politics, it could be argued that U.S.-R.O.K. relations are best served by emphasizing their similar values on a number of basic issues. That is, the larger U.S.-R.O.K. relationship will probably endure no matter what policies are taken, simply because the values of the two countries are so similar in so many ways. However, it is still possible that the security alliance may come under stress, because it is not clear that the basic interests of the U.S. and South Korea will continue to be in accord with each other. </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]