[[toc]]
Email Ofir at bumbeak [at] gmail [dot] comfor Neg cites
Email Marcus at <span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;"><span style="color: #0065cc;">[[mailto:mazimi43@gmail.com|mazimi43@gmail. com]]</span> for Aff cites</span>

=Affirmative= 

==Afghanistan== 

1AC
Observation 1 is Inherency

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">We’re not leaving Afghanistan in 2011 but the deadline itself kills credibility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">Rogin, 10</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29,[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When </span><span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">General David <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Petraeus</span> </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> exactly what they've been doing." </span></span>

**AND SECOND –There is no withdrawal deadline, only a vague timetable of transitions**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Gerstein 10</span>** – Josh (November 10, “Is Obama wobbling on Afghanistan withdrawal timeline?”, http://www.politico.com/blogs/joshgerstein/1110/Is_Obama_wobbling_on_Afghanistan_withdrawal_timeline.html), White House reporter, former correspondent for ABC News</span>

<span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Is Obama wobbling on …</span></span>their country," the official said.

**HOWEVER, the global perception is that Afghanistan withdrawal will occur by July 2011**
**Rubin, 10** – resident scholar at the <span style="color: black;">American Enterprise Institute</span>; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //<span style="color: black;">Middle East Quarterly</span>//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline</span>)

<span class="Underline0">It is true,</span> as…<span class="Underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">NEXT – Their DAs are Non-Unique withdraw from Iraq should have triggered the link </span>**
**The Guardian 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Ewen MacAskill and Martin Chulov Iraq troop withdrawal: Obama hails end of combat role, but violence is on rise ,Monday 30 August 2010,http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/30/iraq-troop-withdrawal-obama-combat) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barack <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama will tomorrow</span>…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or few thousand to remain. </span>

**Thus, the plan:**

**The United States federal government should initiate a phased elimination of the United States federal government’s military and police presence from Afghanistan.**

**Advantage One is Hegemony:**

**US presence in Afghanistan will inevitably hurt American hegemony for two reasons: protracted mission failure and large expenses**
**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 09</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan; and Ted Galen Carpenter is vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 2009 – available at: http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper. </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Myth #3: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Withdrawal Would Erode … U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span></span>__

**NEXT – Our third internal link is //strategic reserves.//**
**The Afghanistan war depletes the reserve of US ground forces – this will get exploited by adversaries.**

**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Friedman 10</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">George Friedman is an American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College – Stratfor – “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan” – </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">June 29, 2010 – http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the grand strategic point … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and re-establish its ground reserves.</span>__</span>

**AND – Our //__expenses__// internal link is vital to hegemony – __the Soviet analogy proves__**

**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Engelhart 9</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Tom Engelhardt is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">February 5, 2009. Available at: http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Back in 1979, National Security … meant for burials, not resurrections.</span>

**NEXT – The Afghanistan war is particularly expensive…**
**USA Today 5-12** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Richard Wolf, Afghan war costs now outpace Iraq's, USA Today, 5/12/10, http://www.usatoday.com/news/military/2010-05-12-afghan_N.htm) </span>

WASHINGTON — <span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The monthly cost of …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> drive it up the road." </span>

**NEXT – US hegemony is good – decline risks global nuclear wars, economic collapse, diseases throughout the world, and terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FERGUSON 04</span>** professor of history at New York University's Stern School of Business and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University
[Niall, "A World without Power", Foreign Policy)

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"><</span><span class="UnderlineTextChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Critics of U.S. global dominance </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> a not-so-new world disorder. </span>

**Advantage 2 is Pakistan Collapse**

**The US is losing the war – there is no chance of success**
**Dorronsoro 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">- </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-weight: normal;">scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, expert on Afghanistan and South Asia (Gilles, 5/11, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779]]) </span>

<span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Current <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S. strategy in Afghanistan </span>… eroding the coalition’s political capital. </span></span>

**First – Presence causes hate among Pashtuns, which risks instability and collapse of Pakistan**
**Kristof 09** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Nicholas Kristof is a two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for The New York Times. He is quoting a group of former intelligence officials – the qualifications of this group are embedded within this piece of evidence and their qualifications are impressive. A seasoned journalist, Kristoff has traveled to South Asia, offering a compassionate glimpse into global health, poverty, and gender in the developing world. The New York Times, “The Afghanistan Abyss”, September 6, 2009 – http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/06/opinion/06kristof.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">''Our policy makers do not … four months left to go. </span>

**Withdrawing US troops solves – it lessens the risk of Pakistani instability**
**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bacevich 08</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. “Winning In Afghanistan” – December 31st – 2008 – http://www.newsweek.com/2008/12/30/winning-in-afghanistan.html</span>

One of history's enduring lessons … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">more affordable—strategy for Afghanistan. </span>

**State collapse risks take-over by extremist entities in Pakistan**
**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Huffington 09</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Arianna <span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Huffington</span> is an author and syndicated columnist. She is best known as co-founder of the news website The Huffington Post. For the relevant portion of the evidence, she internally quotes Robert Baer, a former CIA field operative – LA Times – October 14th – 200<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">9</span> – http://www.latimes.com/sns-200910141852tmsahuffcoltq--m-a20091014oct14,0,6163789,full.story </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The number of those on … al-Qaida-like groups </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">with nuclear weapons."</span>__

**The risk of extremists running Pakistan forces India’s hand – causing pre-emptive nuclear conflict in South Asia**
**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Ricks 01</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Thomas <span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Ricks </span>is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 200<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">1 </span>– <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]</span> </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The prospect of Pakistan being </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">an expert on strategic games. </span>

**We isolate two impacts –**

**First – Takeover would allow it to get hold of nuclear weapons, leading to nuclear terrorism.**
**Wohlstetter 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> Senior Fellow for Technology and Society at the Seattle-based Discovery Institute, former advisor to the Department of Defense (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html) </span>

<span style="margin-left: .1in;"><span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Of all the WMD threats, … grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.</span> </span></span>

**Second – Takeover leads to extinction even if conflict remains limited to India and Pakistan**
**<span class="citeChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Robock and Toon 10</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Dr. Alan Robock is a p </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">rofessor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 2010 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Nuclear bombs</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> dropped on cities </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">and … be greatest in the tropics. </span>


**Contention 2 is Solvency**

**An unconditional timetable based withdrawal is key to success and reassuring our allies**
**<span class="CiteChar0"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mull 6/16</span></span> (Josh, Community Director for Small World News, and a contributor to Polizeros and Enduring America, 2010, “Does an Afghanistan exit strategy hurt our allies?”, http://polizeros.com/2010/06/16/does-an-afghanistan-exit-strategy-hurt-our-allies/, AV)**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Uh oh, looks like you … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">this war to an end. </span></span></span>




==Turkey== 

**Plan – The United States Federal Government should remove its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey.**

**US is reducing TNWs in Europe now - but they are not going to remove them in Turkey**
**Press TV 10**
[Washington Threatens Iran: US to Retain 90 Nukes on Iran Border, April 11, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18602]]</span>]
As Washington and Moscow sign a AND other weapons of mass-destruction.

**Their DAs are not unique - TNW’s being removed from Europe now in Status Quo**
Hans M.
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Kristensen</span>
, director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists, June 26, 200**8**, “U.S. Nuclear Weapons Withdrawn From the United Kingdom,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2008/06/us-nuclear-weapons-withdrawn-from-the-united-kingdom.phpThe|http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2008/06/us-nuclear-weapons-withdrawn-from-the-united-kingdom.php]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2008/06/us-nuclear-weapons-withdrawn-from-the-united-kingdom.phpThe|The]]</span></span>

United States has withdrawn nuclear AND continuing deployment in other __European__ countries

**Turkey is not dependent on US for security**
**Council on Foreign Relation 10**
(Managing a More Assertive Turkey, June 03, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22302/managing_a_more_assertive_turkey.html]]</span>, June 29, S.M)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">The downward spiral of relations over AND , going back to the Ottoman Empire</span>
**No risk of backlash from Turkey – they won’t proliferate**
(Sebnem **Udum,** //PhD candidate in Bilkent University's International Relations Department who focuses on Turkish foreign and security policy, non-proliferation, and energy issues,// 20**07**
//“Turkey’s Non-Nuclear Weapon status,” Science and World Affairs, Volume 3, pages 3-4//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scienceandworldaffairs.org/PDFs/Vol3No2_Sebnem.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">All other nonproliferation WMD regimes; AND </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">for <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Turkey to acquire nuclear weapons</span>.</span></span></span>
__**advantage 1 is a nuclear weapons free zone**__
**Plan is key to Turkey’s leadership in the Middle East. TNWs casues backlash against Turkey – removing them will strengthen Turkey’s anti-prolif policies which are key to a Middle East Nuclear Free Zone**
**Kibaroglu 07**
[Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair, International Relations Dept., Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey, “a turkish nuclear turnaround”, BULLETIN OF THE ATOMIC SCIENTISTS, Vol. 63, No. 6, pp. 64]
Nevertheless,
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">it should be acknowledged AND</span>
initiative could help lead the way.

**TNWs are the main problem – Turkey can’t influence the Middle East if they are there**
**Kibaroglu 10**
[Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair, International Relations Dept., Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Today. Washington: Jun 2010. Vol. 40, Iss. 5; pg. 8, 6 pgs, Proquest]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">In addition to improvements in bilateral AND as a symbol of Western imperialism.</span>


**Turkey is key – it is a key influencer of the Middle East Nuclear Policies**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">**Coskuntuncel**,6/20/**10**</span>
(Aras, Staff writer for the Daily News, June 10, 2010, Daily News & Economic Review, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=only-turkey-can-play-ultimate-mediator-role-in-islamic-world-expert-says-2010-06-18]]</span>)
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turkey should realize its potential as AND have the credibility to do this</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span></span>

**NWFZ is key to advert Middle East nuclear proliferation and key to promote Middle East Peace – it’s an empirical success**
**Lindamood Et Al 10**
[delivered by Holly Lindamood, Daisy Alliance drafted by Jonathan Frerichs, World Council of Churces; Holly Lindamood, Daisy Alliance; Dominic Moran, Greenpeace International, Civil Society Presentations—2010 NPT Review Conference—Middle East NWFZ,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.un.org/en/conf/npt/2010/pdf/daisyalliance.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">The idea of a Middle East AND pressure for arms control moves evaporates.</span>


**That would cause multiple scenarios nuclear war.**
Stanley
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">**Kurtz**,20**06**(senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center., <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWU4MDMwNmU5MTI5NGYzN2FmODg5NmYyMWQ4YjM3OTU]]</span>=)</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Proliferation optimists, on the other AND</span>
**__them from escalating into nuclear confrontations.__**

**Most likely scenario for extinction**
Niall **Ferguson,**Ph.D., Prof. of History at Harvard, William Ziegler Prof., Harvard Business School, 6-18-20
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">**07**[Los Angeles Times, Should we simply ignore the Mideast? <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/la-oe-ferguson18jun18,0,5521291.column?coll=la-opinion-rightrail]]</span>]</span><span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">For some time I have been AND <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">you have a recipe for Armageddon.</span>__</span></span>
**Their Prolif good authors are wrong about the Middle East – proliferation there uniquely risks war for multiple reasons**
Richard **Russell**, 20**06**
(research associate in Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, and an adjunct associate professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown, Military Review, “Military planning for a Middle East stockpiled with nuclear weapons “,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-155824168.html]]</span>)
How would the Middle East be AND one that exists in Pakistan today.
**__Advantage 2 is Iran Prolif__**
**Removing TNW is vital to the success of the nuclear fuel swap with Iran, which is the first step to dialogue with the U.S.**
Mustafa **Kibaroglu**, Ph.D., Professor of International Relations, Bilkent University, June 20**10**
[Arms Control Today, Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25|http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25]]</span>]
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This situation could lead to a AND </span><span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-weapon-free Middle East.</span></span></span>

**This is the ONLY way to bring Iran back to the negotiating table with the U.S. – Solves Iran prolif**
**Ben-Meir 09**
(Alon, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations, Spring, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/item/2009/0103/comm/benmeir_iran.html]]</span>, accessed 7/2, DM)
__The presence of a third party AND it has long and friendly relations.__

**Also, Removing TNW are key to a security guarantee with Iran – key to stemming Iran’s nuclear weapons developement**
**Van der Zwann 9**
(Bob, reported from An International Workshop of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, January 12, Nuclear Weapons In Europe: Time for Disarmament?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.pugwash.org/reports/nw/time_for_disarmament.htm]]</span>)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">The most problematic thinkable nuclear weapons AND develop a latent nuclear weapons capability</span>
.

**A security guarantee would solve Iran Proliferation - addresses their security worries**
**Sagan 6**
(Scott D. - professor of political science and director of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Newsweek, “How to Make Tehran Blink” Sept 4th, lexis)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Given Tehran's defiant response to the AND deal for the West as well.</span>
**We isolate 2 impacts:**
**First, Iran prolif causes chain reaction of fast proliferation, causes preventive nuclear war**
**Wimbush 7**
(Enders, senior fellow at Hudson Institute and director of its Center for Future Security Strategies.1/11/“The End of Deterrence: A nuclear Iran will change everything.”]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">Iran is fast building its position AND arsenals grow bigger and more secure.</span>
**Their deterrence arguments fails with Iran – Risk of regime instability, covert assault and miscalculation will cause nuclear war**
**Clawson and Einstadt 7**
(Patrick, deputy director for research, Michael, director of Military and Security Studies Program, July Washingotn Institute for Near East Studies Policy Focus #72, “Deterring the Ayatollahs: Complications in Applying Cold War Strategy to Iran”]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">For reasons related to the nature AND of nuclear threats, or worse.</span>
**Second, continuing status quo strategies with Iran is not sufficient – continue Iran prolif will force Israel’s hands – strike will come within a year**
**Goldberg 10**
[Jeffery, TheAtlantic, “The Point of No Return”, August 24, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186/]]</span>]
It is possible that at some AND too late to ask for permission.

**It is not too late – Israel is giving us time to change Iran’s behavior – now is key**
**Riedel 10**
[Bruce Riedel is a senior fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. A career CIA officer, he has advised four presidents on Middle East and South Asian issues in the White House on the staff of the NSC, “If Israel Attacks”, August 24, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/israel-attacks-3907]]</span>]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">It is clear from statements of AND Israel may well choose to strike.</span>
**Israel strike will be devastating – US will get the blame – will fail and leads to retaliation and terrorism**
**Riedel 10**
[Bruce Riedel is a senior fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. A career CIA officer, he has advised four presidents on Middle East and South Asian issues in the White House on the staff of the NSC, “If Israel Attacks”, August 24, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/israel-attacks-3907]]</span>]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">AN ISRAELI attack on Iran is AND after a strike would likely evaporate.</span>
**Terrorism causes Global nuclear war**
Patrick F. **Speice**,Jr., J.D. Candidate at the Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the College of William and Mary and B.A. 2003 from Wake Forest University and former Cathedral Prep debater, 20**06**
[“Note: Negligence And Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating The Current Liability Barrier To Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs,” William & Mary Law Review (47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427), February, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis]
The potential consequences of the unchecked AND to the use of nuclear weapons

**Independently those strikes alone will cause extinction**
**Coughlin 10**
[Telegraph's Executive Foreign Director and a world-renowned expert on the Middle East and Islamic terrorism
(Con, If Iran continues to defy the West, Barack Obama will be forced to launch military action, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/concoughlin/100021911/if-iran-continues-to-defy-the-west-barack-obama-|http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/ news/concoughlin/100021911/if- iran-continues-to-defy-the- west-barack-obama-]]</span> will-be- forced-to-launch-military- action/)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">The Iranian regime is anything but AND chance of surviving into the 22nd.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Turkey TNWs 1AC-Ext. Iran Prolif Now]]Ext. Iran Prolif Now**</span>=== 
Iran is proliferating now – brink on obtaining nukes
NTI 10
[Global Security Newswire, “Iran Claims 37 Pounds of Refined Uranium”, June 23, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100623_4232.php]]</span>]
__Iran__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">today</span> __announced it holds AND__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">nonproliferation official Mark Fitzpatrick said (Reuters I, June 23).</span>
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Turkey TNWs 1AC-Ext. Strikes probable]]Ext. Strikes probable**</span>=== 
**Strikes are most probable next year**
Goldberg 10
[Jeffery, TheAtlantic, “The Point of No Return”, August 24, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186/]]</span>]
<span class="underlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I have been exploring the possibility that such AND</span></span> reborn and still-besieged Jewish state.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]