[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
for aff cites email [[mailto:benneb123@gmail.com|benneb123@gmail.com]]
==East Asia 1AC (broken 10/02/10)== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea and Japan.**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Contention 1: The plan does offshore balancing**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**In Japan**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Bandow, 2010, senior fellow at the Cato Institute** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617, accessed on 7/14/2010]</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The Japanese people may decide that the threats they face are ... finally might gain justice — after 65 long years.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; text-decoration: none;">**In Korea**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Espiritu, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Can the U.S. live with the risk of an unstable Korean Peninsula? The obvious answer ... is possible by taking the “let them work it out” (the Koreas) approach would certainly be advantageous to the U.S. The time is now for the Eagle to head home. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Contention 2 is regionalism**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a** __**clear sign**__ **of U.S. withdrawal can motivate** __**sustainable**__ **regional security cooperation**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Carpenter and Bandow 4**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **-** *</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND **Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute** </span> </span> ( </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The security treaties with the United States and the U.S. troop presence allow the diversion of financial resources ... with a reduced military presence based in Guam and other U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific. </span>**


U.S. presence discourages a regional balance of power system that can effectively contain conflicts.
Bandow, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Still, does an American presence dampen geopolitical ... with the South is to end today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.</span>**

The plan is a prerequisite to sustainable relations between South Korea and Japan—that's key to stability and cooperation.
Bandow, 08 - **Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20,**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/</span>**

**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Six decades have passed since World War II ended, but you wouldn’t know it from relations between South Korea and Japan. The … serious members of the international community rather than spoiled teenagers, and provide responsible leadership in East Asia.</span>**


Regionalism fixes security problems—including territorial conflicts
Nanto, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf)</span>**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">A stronger regional security organization in East Asia could play a role in quelling … by which any architecture can be evaluated, however, is how well it contributes to a resolution of problems as they now exist or will exist in the future. </span>**

**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Territorial disputes draw in great powers—Causes World War 3</span>**
Waldron, 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO)</span>**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">MAKING THESE flash-points all the more volatile ... could easily draw in neighboring states--Russia, or India, or Japan--or the United States. </span>**

Contention 3 is China
US hegemony in East Asia is unsustainable and East Asia is key to overall offshore balancing. Current strategy guarantees US-Sino war—offshore balancing is key. Regional powers and long-range strike capabilities solve your offense. 
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher </span>**Layne**, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 20**0 8**. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf]]</span>)**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Similarly, at an October 2007 conference on Sino-American relations Admiral Timothy Keating, the … influence. It could stand on the sidelines while that region’s great powers enervate themselves by engaging in security competitions.</span>**

Containment fails—causes Chinese hostility
Klare, prof**essor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College,** 06 **[Michael, “**<span style="color: #000000; font-weight: normal;">Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]</span>
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives has been a vigorous, if largely … increase the risk of unintended escalation to full-scale war in Asia. There can be no victors from such a conflagration. </span>**

China war escalates and goes nuclear
Hunkovic, 09 – **American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world ... determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>**

Chinese military buildup will cause war in the status quo—their cards don't assume future mismanagement—reevaluation of interests solves
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Stephen </span>**Walt, 9/15/**10 (Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/15/how_long_can_beijing_and_washington_handle_their_relationship]]</span> )**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">But here's why I'm less optimistic. Assuming ... home. And not just today, but for a long time into the future</span>**

Engagement fails—liberalization won't change China's behavior—history proves
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher </span>**Layne**, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 200**8**. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, because it rests ... liberalization in the future, there is no reason to believe that its foreign policy behavior would be fundamentally affected.</span>**

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#__RefHeading__52046_1780303140]] </span>Contention 4 is Hegemony
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The unipolar structure will inevitably collapse – globalization is causing power shifts toward others and harmful American policies are causing economic and military overstretch </span>**
<span style="background: #00ff00;">Haass 08</span> **President of the Council on Foreign Relations (Richard, Bottom of Form The Age of Nonpolarity What Will Follow U.S. Dominance, Foreign Affairs May/June**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">But even if great-power rivals have not emerged, unipolarity has ended. Three... is dependent on others to support political and economic sanctions or block Tehran's access to nuclear technology and materials. Nonpolarity begets nonpolarity.</span>**
[[#__RefHeading__52048_1780303140]]

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; page-break-before: always;">[[#__RefHeading__52050_1780303140]] </span>Ceding East Asia to the rise of China sparks a gradual transition to offshore balancing—forces the US to let go of hegemonic ambitions
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Doug </span>**Bandow**, Senior Fellow at the CATO institute. 1/30/**10**. (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/china-the-next-necessary_b_443349.html )**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The real issue for Washington is dominance, not defense. For instance, Adm. Willard complained that China's military capabilities ... foreign policy. It is time to make defense rather than dominance the cornerstone of American strategy.</span>**


The plan forces a conceptual shift that leads to an offshore balancing strategy globally.
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher </span>**Layne**, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service . 200**4**. (//The Asia-Pacific: A Region in Transition.// http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Edited%20Volumes/RegionalFinal%20chapters/Chapter5Layne.pdf. p 27)**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">To be sure, the United States would need to experience ... and makes its way among the other great powers.</span>**

The current unipolar structure is not only unsustainable but will inevitably result in great power war.
<span style="background: #00ff00;">Layne 06</span> **Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University [Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 169-171)]**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Rather than being instruments of regional pacification, today ... in East Asia is supposed to prevent them from happening.</span>**

<span style="background: transparent;">Great power conflict involving the US causes extinction; outweighs other scenarios—a less aggressive foreign policy is key</span>
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Paul K. </span>**Chisholm **, foreign policy and international relations scholar based in Kenya, holds a University Degree in Sociology and Diploma in Human Resources, 200**5 **(“Terrorism, the Threat in Perspective and Great Power Conflict,” Free World Syndicate, April, Available Online athttp://www.synd.org/opinion-columns-chisholm/terrorism.html , Accessed 09-08-2010)//**
**//We've heard much about terrorism since the 9/11 ... threatened by great power alliance.//**

**//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Predominance spurs a Russia-China military alliance that ends in nuclear extinction</span>//**
//Roberts 07 **<span style="font-weight: normal;">Senior Research Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, William E. Simon Chairin Political Economy, Center for Strategic and International Studies</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">(Paul Craig“US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance,”<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts218.html]]</span>)</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">This week the Russian and Chinese militaries are conducting a joint military exercise involving large numbers of troops ... goes far beyond recklessness. The Bush regime is the most irresponsibly aggressive regime the world has seen since Hitler’s. </span>**//


//Offshore balancing solves global stability//
//Schwarz and Layne 02**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Editor of the Atlantic, </span>Research Fellow with the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.independent.org/research/copal/|Center on Peace and Liberty]]</span> at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.independent.org/|the Independent Institute]]</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[Benjamin and Christopher “A New Grand Strategy” </span>**//**Atlantic Monthly//, January 1st]//**
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The rise of new great powers is inevitable, and America's very primacy accelerates this process. If Washington continues …. the United States can minimize the risks of open confrontation with the new great powers.</span>**//

//We solve counterbalancing//
//Layne 2006 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, Prof at Texas A&M and author of The Peace of Illusions, International Security, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisited; The Coming End of the United States’ Unipolar Movement,” Fall, p. Lexis]</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">If the United States fails to adopt an offshore balancing strategy based on multipolarity and military and ideological … great powers in multipolar systems. Unilateral offshore balancing, indeed, is America's next grand strategy.</span>**//

//Hegemony is based on a false Wilsonian ideology//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher </span>**Layne**, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 200**8**. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf]]</span>)**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">If American strategy were determined by the ... of hegemonic power, dangerous times lie ahead.</span>**//


==//East Asia 1AC 2.0 (John's Creek)//== 


//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea and Japan.</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention 1: Solvency</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The plan does offshore balancing</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">In Japan</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Bandow, 2010, senior fellow at the Cato Institute [Doug, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617, accessed on 7/14/2010]</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The Japanese people may decide ... Japanese government could no longer use American pressure as an excuse for inaction in Okinawa. Then Okinawans finally might gain justice — after 65 long years.</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">In Korea</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Espiritu, 06 – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, JMP)</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Can the U.S. live with the risk of an unstable Korean Peninsula? The obvious answer is “no.”... of these successes and bring stabilization to the region without heavy U.S. involvement. It is possible by taking the “let them work it out” (the Koreas) approach would certainly be advantageous to the U.S. The time is now for the Eagle to head home. </span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention 2 is regionalism</span>**//

//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a clear sign of U.S. withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperation</span>**//
//**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Carpenter and Bandow 4 - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND </span>** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The security treaties with the United States and the U.S. troop presence allow the diversion … needlessly antagonizing Beijing. America still can have a potent power projection capability with a reduced military presence based in Guam and other U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific. </span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">U.S. presence discourages a regional balance of power system that can effectively contain conflicts. </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Bandow, 08 – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812, JMP)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Still, does an American presence dampen geopolitical rivalries and arms races? Washington’s role as de … security structure is outdated. Nowhere is that more obvious than on the Korean peninsula. The only way to create a “twenty-first century strategic alliance” with the South is to end today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The plan is a prerequisite to sustainable relations between South Korea and Japan—that's key to stability and cooperation.</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Bandow, 08 - Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20, </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Six decades have passed since World War II ended, but you wouldn’t know it from relations between South Korea and Japan. The two leading ... quarrel over who owns 33 worthless bits of rock a world away from America would be an added benefit of disengagement. It’s time for Tokyo and especially Seoul to behave like serious members of the international community rather than spoiled teenagers, and provide responsible leadership in East Asia.</span>//


//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Regionalism solves stability</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Francis, 06 – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586, JMP)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">At the conclusion of the Second World War, the United States established bilateral military alliances in the Asia-Pacific intended to contain Soviet and Chinese communist expansion in the region. US security strategy now focuses largely on combating terrorism … natural resource exploitation in East Asia, promote engagement over containment, and prevent domination of the region by any major power. The determining factor will be ASEAN’s ability to provide the leadership necessary to create a strong, independent East Asian Union.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Asian instability escalates and goes global—security structure is key</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Jonathan S. Landay (staff) March 10 2000 “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts:, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, l/n </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that begins at the heavily fortified ... to the U.S. economy. Numerous U.S. firms and millions of American jobs depend on trade with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention 2: China</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">US hegemony in East Asia is unsustainable. Current strategy draws us into a war with China and kills relations—offshore balancing is key. Regional powers and long-range strike capabilities solve your offense. </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Similarly, at an October 2007 conference on Sino-American relations Admiral Timothy Keating, the commander in chief of the us Pacific Command, made three points with respect to America’s China strategy. First, the United States will … strategy, the United States could better preserve its relative power and strategic influence. It could stand on the sidelines while that region’s great powers enervate themselves by engaging in security competitions.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">China won't accept US domineering—views power as essential to national interests</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Yuan-Kang Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and the School of Public. Affairs and Administration at Western Michigan University, CNAPS Taiwan Fellow. July 2006. (THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION. http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/wang2006.pdf )</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Studies have shown that China has been acting like a realist power on the world stage and, in … the most powerful state in their region. The regional hegemon can dictate the boundaries of acceptable behavior and possesses the means to enforce them, if necessary, by the threat or use of force. Neither American nor Chinese leaders would prefer to see their nations overshadowed by a stronger great power next door. </span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Engagement fails—liberalization won't change China's behavior—history proves</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, because it rests on a shaky foundation. The … against other democracies (including threats to use force). In other words, when the stakes are high enough, great powers act like great powers even in their relations with other democracies. Thus, even if China does undergo political liberalization in the future, there is no reason to believe that its foreign policy behavior would be fundamentally affected.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Two scenarios.</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">First is war.</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Absent a reevaluation of US interests, future mismanagement makes conflict inevitable</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Stephen Walt, 9/15/10 (Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University. http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/15/how_long_can_beijing_and_washington_handle_their_relationship )</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">But here's why I'm less optimistic. Assuming China continues … is clearly worried about social forces in China that might make conflict more likely; I'm also worried about the judgment of people at the top and some of the social forces here at home. And not just today, but for a long time into the future</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">China war escalates and goes nuclear</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Second is relations.</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The status quo strategy of containment causes a cycle of distrust that spills over to other issues—it also causes reciprical Chinese aggression</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 06 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives has been a vigorous, if largely unheralded,... and increase the risk of unintended escalation to full-scale war in Asia. There can be no victors from such a conflagration. </span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Cooperation solves warming</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Lieberthal and Sandalow, 9/23/2009 </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">(Kenneth – visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, and David – senior fellow at Brookings, Overcoming obstacles to U.S.-China cooperation on climate change, p. online) </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Opportunities for collaboration in fighting climate change are plentiful, but moving forward at the scale needed will re­quire high-level political support in two very different societ­ies, each with considerable suspicion of the other. This report recommends ways to win such support and sustain it for the long term. Chapter 1 of the report provides a primer on two topics: climate change and U.S.-China relations. It describes the climate change threat, concluding that every year of delay in responding to it puts both countries—and the planet—at greater risk. Because the United States and China are the world’s top two greenhouse gas emitters, together accounting for more than 40% of annual emissions, any solution requires both countries to transition to low-carbon economies. U.S.-China cooperation on climate change would have not only bilateral but global benefits.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Deibel, 07 </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">(Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature ... Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet</span>//
[[#__RefHeading__52046_1780303140]]
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention 4: Strategy</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The unipolar structure will inevitably collapse – globalization is causing power shifts toward others and harmful American policies are causing economic and military overstretch </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Haass 08 President of the Council on Foreign Relations (Richard, Bottom of Form The Age of Nonpolarity What Will Follow U.S. Dominance, Foreign Affairs May/June</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">But even if great-power rivals have not emerged, unipolarity has ended. Three explanations for its demise stand out. The first is historical. States … due to nonpolarity, the United States cannot manage Iran alone. Rather, Washington is dependent on others to support political and economic sanctions or block Tehran's access to nuclear technology and materials. Nonpolarity begets nonpolarity.</span>//
[[#__RefHeading__52048_1780303140]]
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#__RefHeading__52050_1780303140]] Ceding East Asia to the rise of China sparks a gradual transition to offshore balancing—forces the US to let go of hegemonic ambitions</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow at the CATO institute. 1/30/10. (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/china-the-next-necessary_b_443349.html )</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The real issue for Washington is dominance, not defense. For ... former, not the latter. It is time for genuine change in U.S. foreign policy. It is time to make defense rather than dominance the cornerstone of American strategy.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The plan forces a conceptual shift that leads to an offshore balancing strategy globally.</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher Layne, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service . 2004. (The Asia-Pacific: A Region in Transition. http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Edited%20Volumes/RegionalFinal%20chapters/Chapter5Layne.pdf. p 27)</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">To be sure, the United States would need to experience a conceptual … In the real world, we shall have to learn to live as a great power which defends itself and makes its way among the other great powers.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The current unipolar structure is not only unsustainable but escalates conflicts to global nuclear war</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Layne 06 Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University [Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 169-171)]</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Rather than being instruments of regional pacification, today … Japan-are taking place even though the U.S. military presence in East Asia is supposed to prevent them from happening.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Offshore balancing solves global stability and prevents conflict with rising powers</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Schwarz and Layne 02 Editor of the Atlantic, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[Benjamin and Christopher “A New Grand Strategy” Atlantic Monthly, January 1st]</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The rise of new great powers is inevitable, and... containing regional instability – an offshore balancing strategy is, of course, opportunistic and self-serving. But it also exercises restraint and shows geopolitical respect. By abandoning the "preponderance" strategy's extravagant objectives, the United States can minimize the risks of open confrontation with the new great powers.</span>//

//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Great power conflict involving the US causes extinction; outweighs other scenarios—a less aggressive foreign policy is key</span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Paul K. Chisholm , foreign policy and international relations scholar based in Kenya, holds a University Degree in Sociology and Diploma in Human Resources, 2005 (“Terrorism, the Threat in Perspective and Great Power Conflict,” Free World Syndicate, April, Available Online athttp:</span>//www.synd.org/opinion-columns-chisholm/terrorism.html , Accessed 09-08-2010)
We've heard much about terrorism since the 9/11 attacks. It has become an issue at the ... the growing prominence of Asian nations China and Korea could bring tension with Japan and finally in the next decade we'll see American interests threatened by great power alliance.

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">We solve counterbalancing </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Layne 2006 [Christopher, Prof at Texas A&M and author of The Peace of Illusions, International Security, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisited; The Coming End of the United States’ Unipolar Movement,” Fall, p. Lexis]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">If the United States fails to adopt an offshore balancing strategy based on multipolarity and military and ideological self-restraint, it probably will, at some point, have to fight to uphold its ... advantages accruing to insular great powers in multipolar systems. Unilateral offshore balancing, indeed, is America's next grand strategy.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Hegemony is based on a false Wilsonian ideology</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">If American strategy were determined by the traditional metrics that have ... is exempt from the fate of hegemons. This belief, really a form of American exceptionalism, is wrong. If Washington gives in to the temptation of hegemonic power, dangerous times lie ahead.</span>

==East Asia 1AC 3== 

The United States federal government should end its military presence in South Korea and Japan. 

Contention 1 is regionalism

Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a … motivate sustainable regional security cooperation
Carpenter and Bandow 4 - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND ** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR
The security treaties with the United States and … and other U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific. 

U.S. presence discourages a regional balance of power system that can effectively contain conflicts. 
Bandow, 08 – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812, JMP)
Still, does an American presence … today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.

First scenario is war
Presence provokes it; bilateral alliances are unsustainable
Johnson ‘01 [Chalmers, Ph. D Political Science UC Berkley, Professor of Emeritus University of San Diego, Former CIA Consultant, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, 5/14, http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]
In lieu of concrete security … satellites did in Eastern Europe.

Security structure solves nuclear war
Jonathan S. Landay (staff) March 10 2000 “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts:, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, l/n 
WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that … , according to the Commerce Department.

Presence means it escalates—security guarantees fail
Layne 06 Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University [Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 169-171)]
Rather than being instruments of … to prevent them from happening.


Second is North Korea
Regional cooperation solves North Korean proliferation and stability—deterrence fails. The impact is nuclear war. North Korean prolif makes US security guarantees unsustainable.
Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, and Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development in San Francisco. 2007 (Nuclear Proliferation and International Security, p 133. Edited by Morten Bremer Mærli and Sverre Lodgaard. “North Korean proliferation and the end of US nuclear hegemony”.)

Barring a miraculous change in political … that there is no alternative.

Contention 2: China war
US hegemony in East Asia is unsustainable. Current strategy draws us into a war with China and kills relations—offshore balancing is key. Regional powers and long-range strike capabilities solve your offense. 
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)
Similarly, at an October 2007 conference... the … by engaging in security competitions.
China won't accept US domineering—views power as essential to national interests
Yuan-Kang Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Western Michigan University, CNAPS Taiwan Fellow. July 2006. (THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION. http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/wang2006.pdf )
Studies have shown that China … a stronger great power next door. 

Engagement fails—liberalization won't change China's behavior—history proves
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)
Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, … behavior would be fundamentally affected.

Absent a reevaluation of US interests, future mismanagement makes conflict inevitable
Stephen Walt, 9/15/10 (Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University. http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/15/how_long_can_beijing_and_washington_handle_their_relationship)
But here's why I'm less … a long time into the future

China war escalates and goes nuclear
Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]
A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.

Even a limited war would cause extinction
Takai ‘9, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/ [gender paraphrased])
What would happen if China … heeding by nuclear hard-liners. 
First strike fails
Bin, Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua Universit, 06 [Li, “Paper Tiger with
Whitened Teeth”, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_5.pdf]
Rather than exploring why China … risks to the United States.

Contention 3 is China relations
The status quo strategy of containment causes a cycle of distrust that spills over to other issues—it also causes reciprocal Chinese aggression
Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 06 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]
Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives … no victors from such a conflagration. 

The problem is structural—US hegemony in East Asia makes any improvement in relations temporary and superficial
Yan Xuetong, Professor of International Relations and Director of Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University. 8/13/10. (The Chinese Journal of International Politics. “The Instability of China-US Relations. http://cjip.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/08/13/cjip.poq009.full ) 
From the political standpoint, other … nations led to the US government’s assumption of a cooperative response … two decades 1990–2010 supports this argument.

Spills over to climate change cooperation
Jian Junbo, assistant professor of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University, Shanghai. 1/26/10. (“US and China Pick their fights”. Asia Times. http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LA26Ad02.html )

China reacted angrily to oppose … of "smart" and "soft" power.
Cooperation is key to solve extinction via warming
Garret and Adams, '9 (Banning Garrett is director of the Initiative for US-China Cooperation on Energy and Climate. Jonathan Adams is assistant director of the Initiative for US-China Cooperation on Energy and Climate. “Road to rapprochement”. http://www.chinadialogue.net/article/show/single/en/2742 )

Nearly four decades ago, the 1971-72 US-… benefits of bilateral economic integration.

Warming causes extinction; overwhelming scientific consensus proves it's real and anthropogenic
Deibel, 07 
(Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, there is one major … of life on this planet

Warming's real, prefer consensus
Holdren 09 - Assistant to the President of the United States for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy [John P. Holdren (Former Professor of Environmental Policy and Director of the Program on Science, Technology, and Public Policy @ Harvard University & Former Professor of Environmental Science and Policy in Harvard's Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Director of the Woods Hole Research Center) "Climate-Change Skeptics Revisited." Paper, Science, Technology, and Public Policy Program, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, August 5, 2008 pg. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/18472/climatechange_skeptics_revisited.html]

It also needs to be … policymakers should place their bets.

Independently, tension between the US and China causes nuclear wars across the globe
Conable and Lampton 93 – Chair; and … exacerbate the dilemmas facing Washington.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Security 2AC**</span>== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#__RefHeading__6904_1587218627]][[#__RefHeading__6906_1587218627]] Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Tuathail, 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">While theoretical debates at academic … mess that is human history.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Our truth claims are true—</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">a. consensus of field experts</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Ferguson 2 – Professor of Political Science, Rutgers (Yale, International Relations and the “Third Debate”, ed Jarvis, p 157, AG) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Although there may be no … need (or prefer) to “know.”</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">b. Specificity</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Ole Weaver, International relations theory and the politics of European integration, 2k p. 284-285</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The other main possibility is … escalations, violence and mutual vilification.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Realism true</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">A. Human Nature</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Thayer 2004 – Thayer has been a Fellow … food, shelter, or other resources).</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">B. The structure of ir</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Mearsheimer 95, Professor of political science at Chicago, 1995 [John, International Security, Summer]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">For critical theorists, the key … communitarian norms is a hopeless cause.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Positivism is essential to any epistemology- the game is out there, and its play or be played</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">GEORG SØRENSEN, MA, political science (1975) PhD, social science (1983) (Trans national Corporations and Economic Development) Dr.scient.pol. (1993) (Democracy and Development.) Professor, International Politics and Economics, Aarhus Univ. Review of International Studies 24, 1998 ,IR Theory after the cold war p. 87-88</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">What, then, are the more … embrace any conceivable change project.28</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Realism can accomodate alternative modes of representation-their alternative isn't competitive</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">MURIELLE COZETTE* BA (Hons) (Sciences Po Paris), MA (King's College London), MA (Sciences Po Paris), PhD (LSE) is a John Vincent Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of International Relations. Review of International Studies (2008), 34, 5–27</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">This article concentrates on Morgenthau’s … a critique of the powers-that-be.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Even if war, violence and disorder are inevitable, escalation and the terminal impact isn’t – approach the plan as a means to reduce the worst forms of violence. We can’t guarantee a utopia but we can keep things from getting worse</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Flynn, 07 (Stephen, senior fellow for … effectively when things go wrong. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#__RefHeading__6908_1587218627]][[#__RefHeading__6910_1587218627]][[#__RefHeading__6912_1587218627]] There are no prior questions to problem oriented IR. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#__RefHeading__6914_1587218627]][[#__RefHeading__6916_1587218627]] Alternatives to realism fail </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Murray, Professor Politics at the University of Wales, 1997 (Alastair J.H., Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 188-9)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">His disagreement with realism depends … - is manifestly unable to provide."</span>
=Negative= 
==Johns Creek Round 2 v. COIN== 
1NC: T - combat troops, Orientalism K, NMS CP w/ CMR, Case
2NC: NMS w/ CMR, case
1NR: T - combat troops, case
2NR: NMS w/ CMR

==Johns Creek Round 4 v. COIN== 
1NC: T - combat troops, Orientalism K, NMS CP w/ CMR, Uniqueness CP, Case
2NC: Orientalism, Case
1NR: T - combat troops, Uniqueness CP, Casee
2NR: Orientalism

==Johns Creek Semis v. COIN== 
1NC: T - combat troops, Security (Lacan-ish), End Strength Advantage CP, START, Case
2NC: START, Case, CP
1NR: T - combat troops, case
2NR: CP, START, Case turns

==Johns Cree Finals v. COIN== 
1NC: T - combat, Security (Lacan-ish), End Strength + Propoganda Advantage CP, START, Case
2NC: K, START, case
1NR: T, CP, Case
2NR: K

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]