[[toc]]
Email me with cite requests at [[mailto:andrewk0218@gmail.com|andrewk0218@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1ACs== 
===1AC- Wake Forest=== 
Contention One: Inherency

<span class="Author-Date">Obama’s committed to a lengthy counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan – public backlash is piggybacking Iraq War fatigue, and his Middle East strategy decision will guide all future foreign policy.</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver;">Kitfield 2009</span></span> (James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]])
<span class="UnderlineChar">As the administration reconsiders…</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: silver;">strategy involving thousands of ground forces to secure population centers</span> and difficult nation building by civilians.</span>

Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all troops engaged in counterinsurgency presence activities in Afghanistan.

Contention Two: Hegemony

<span class="Author-Date">U.S. hegemony is sustainable – declinists mistake trends for outcomes and only look at one measure of power.</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 12pt;">Brooks and Wohlforth 2009</span></span> [Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO]
Only a few years ago, pundits…the same is true of most terrorists.

**A mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies requires a substantial military footprint that undermines US influence and overextends and exhausts the US military**
**<span style="color: black;">Boyle, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?</span>**”** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

__This episode indicates the extent ….__
<span class="Underline0">incubators of future terrorist threats</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Overreliance on counterinsurgency leads to more COIN operations**
**<span style="color: black;">Boyle, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**”** <span style="color: black;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>)
__Finally, this emphasis on a …__
<span class="Underline0">be more appropriate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




Central Asian land war results in domestic backlash against COIN – that undermines power projection and trends toward isolationism.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski 2010</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1">[Paul, assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.htm]]</span>]</span>
Over the winter break I had …o<span class="UnderlineChar">ne or more <span style="background-color: silver;">land wars in Asia</span>. </span>


Domestic support is the lynchpin of global hegemony – even if we’re the strongest, we can’t engage- leads to isolationism
EVELYN <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GOH</span></span>, Assistant Professor at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Woodrow Wilson Center Public Policy Scholar, university lecturer in interna- tional relations at St. Anne's College,. University of Oxford, Hegemonic constraints: the implications of 11 September for American power, Australian Journal of International Affairs, Vol. 57, No. 1, pp. 77–97, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span>, EBSCO
<span class="DebateUnderline">At the domestic level, … in Washington over the longer term.</span>

A counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver;">Stewart 2009</span></span>- <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: silver;">The best Afghan policy </span>…</span> Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.

Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and restores credibility
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver;">Stewart 2010</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">- Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">But this moderate tone …greater focus on Kashmir</span>.1



[[#_Toc145667528]]
Isolationism causes every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow heg to collapse
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: silver;">Thayer 2006</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>
A grand strategy based …due to the economic prosperity it provides.




[[#_Toc145667530]]
Contention Three: Insurgency

<span class="Underline0">The US is losing with no improvement</span>
<span class="Underline0">**Dorronsoro 5/11**-</span><span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)</span></span>
<span class="Underline0">Current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan …coalition’s political capital. </span>

Counterinsurgency is the main reason for Afghan instability- low levels of instability inevitable, but COIN is the catalyst for escalation.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Simon and Stevenson 2009</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Steven, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Jonathan, Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College – October, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, Volume 51, Issue 5 October 2009 , pages 47 – 67] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">To be sure<span class="DebateUnderline">, the re-Talibanisation … </span>over the next few years. </span>




Current counterinsurgency strategy is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the unpopular and ineffective central government at the cost of security
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Preble 10</span></span> (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question is not …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">and stable <span style="background-color: silver;">electoral democracy</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Ending support for the government leads to a provincial security regime that stabilizes Afghanistan
Max <span class="cite">Fisher 9</span>, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has made … a foreseeable exit strategy. </span>


Inevitable destabilization that results from an imposed central government leads to the fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in escalating wars throughout Central Asia and the Middle East, Indopak nuclear use, and a Russia-China alliance against the US
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although disliked and despised in many quarters, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">….</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span>

And, war in Central Asia is the most probable scenario for extinction
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: silver; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Blank 2k</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: silver;">many structural …</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: silver;">settling the situation</span></span><span class="UnreadTextChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.(77) </span></span>



**A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse**
<span class="Underline0">**Akhtar, 10-**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pag</span></span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"><span style="color: black;">ename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1**</span>**)**</span>

**__If it is a war against …__**__moment, thus destabilizing the state.__

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
Pitt, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span> //<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan …serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. </span>**



**Withdrawal is inevitable – but the plan builds a self-sustaining strategy using local solutions**
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 10</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, American journalist, columnist and multi Pulitzer Prize winning author. He is an op-ed contributor to The New York Times, whose column appears twice weekly. He has written extensively on foreign affairs including global trade, the Middle East and environmental issues. He has won the Pulitzer Prize three times, twice for International Reporting (1983, 1988) and once for Commentary (2002), June 22, 2010, “What’s Second Prize?”, https://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/23/opinion/23friedman.html) </span>**

**<span class="UnderlineChar">It is not about the way. …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-color: silver;"> late, lose big or lose small.</span></span>**


==Kritik 2ACs== 
===Security 2AC=== 
No alt solvency – abandoning problem-solving approaches fails.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Gunning 2007</span></span> [Jeroen, Lecturer in Int’l Politics @ U of Wales, Government and Opposition 42.3, “A Case for Critical Terrorism Studies?”]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The notion of emancipation also crystallizes the need for policy engagement. … at the interaction between the violent group and their wider social constituency.104 </span>


Focus on representations dooms the alternative.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: silver; font-size: 11pt;">Valbjørn, 2004</span></span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">[Morten, PhD Poli. Sci. @ Aarhus, “Culture Blind and Culture Blinded: Images of Middle Eastern Conflicts in International Relations,” in Middle East and Palestine: Global Politics and Regional Conflict, p. 67-8]</span>
As mentioned before, the relational perspective is a critique … "culturalistic" alternative seem to be better at asking important and critical questions than at offering attractive answers.

Insecurity is inevitable, and resolving it is key to value to life.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Booth 2005</span></span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">[Ken, Prof. IR @ U Wales, //Critical Security Studies and World Politics//, p. 22]</span>
The best starting point for conceptualizing security lies in the real conditions of insecurity suffered by people and collectivities. …Security is an important dimension of the process by which the human species can reinvent itself beyond the merely biological.
Strategic planning to prevent crisis escalation avoids future spirals of insecurity. Total descuritization is impossible.
PH <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Liotta</span></span>, Pell Center for IR & Public Policy, <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">‘5</span></span> [Security Dialogue 36.1, “Through the Looking Glass: Creeping Vulnerabilities and the Reordering of Security,” p. 65-6]

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: silver;">Although it seems attractive to focus on</span> </span>exclusionary concepts that insist on<span class="DebateUnderline"> <span style="background: silver;">desecuritization</span></span>, privileged ..Clearly, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: silver;">the time is now to reorder our</span> </span>entire<span class="DebateUnderline"> <span style="background: silver;">approach</span> to</span> how we address – or fail to address – <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: silver;">security.</span></span>

Notions of realism are entrenched and lingering political thought– concrete proposals are necessary to get beyond this – the alternative fails to overcome the complexity of the status quo
<span class="TagsChar1">Falk 05</span> Professor Emeritus of International Law at University of Princeton
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, Recovering Normative Consciousness International Relations, International Relations 2005; 19; 79 </span>
The lingering of Hobbesian assumptions of international anarchy beyond their natural life cycle threatens the world with empire, …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> global fascism, and about the loss of limits in the turmoil of transition to a postmodern future. </span>

**There is no substitute to the current security framework – the alternative causes the state to become more powerful and interventionist – flipping their impacts**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tara </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">McCormack, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, (Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, page 127-129)</span>
<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 8pt;">The following section will briefly raise some questions about the </span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> political limits of the framework proposed by critical and emancipatory theoretical approaches.</span>



=Negative= 

==Disadvantages== 
===RRW DA 1NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Gates and Obama are at a stalemate over funding RRW </span>

Gerstein, 10 **(Josh, 3/6/10, “Obama-Gates nuke war brewing?” POLITICO, Lexis)**

**President Barack __Obama … new weapons programs.__**


Obama has held of RRW by increasing the role conventional forces in deterrence—plan reverses that trend
Grossman, 10 **– Writer for global security newswire and foreign affairs reporter who has won 13 national journalism awards (Elaine M., March 19, 2010 http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100319_6793.php)**

**A central review issue …__one of military utility__."**

Reducing conventional forces requires a renewed emphasis on nuclear strategy through RRW modernization programs
IFPA, 9 **– Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Updating_US_Deterrence_Concepts.pdf]]</span>)**

**Reducing the number …consequence management capabilities.**

Funding RRW causes a Global Nuclear Arms Race
FCNL, 8 – **the oldest registered ecumenical lobby in Washington, DC (Friends Committee on National Legislation, April 2008, “Reliable Replacement Warhead //Another Uneeded Nuclear Weapon”// <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fcnl.org/pdfs/nuclear/RRW_Fact_Sheet.pdf]]</span>)**

__Researching and developing …__ **America's moral heritage.”3**

Global Nuclear war
Cimbala, 2008
**[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]**
**If the possibility existed …__<span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid;">major interstate warfare</span>__**

==Topicality== 
===Topicality- Its (PMC)=== 


**A. Interpretation – its implies ownership**


**Glossary of English Grammar Terms 2005**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(<span style="color: black;">http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html</span>)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>**

B. Violation – PMC’s aren’t owned by the government
Elsea '10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – legislative attorney (Jennfifer K., 1/7/10, "Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Legal Issues," Congressional Research Service Report for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R40991.pdf) </span>**
**Referencing FM 3-100.21, supra note 18, ¶ 1-22**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Management of contractor activities is accomplished through the responsible contracting organization, not the chain of command. Commanders do not have direct control over contractors or their employees (contractor employees are not the same as government employees); only contractors manage, supervise, and give directions to their employees.</span>**

**Private contractors are distinct entities from the federal government – not even agents**
Barbier 7 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– US District Judge (Carl, TIEN VAN COA, ET AL VERSUS GREGORY WILSON, ET AL CIVIL ACTION NO: 07-7464 SECTION: J(1) UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87653, lexis)</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">As to federal question jurisdiction, Defendants state that P&J …commercial activities carried on for profit." Id. at 740; see also Powell v. U.S. Cartridge Co., 339 U.S. 497, 70 S. Ct. 755, 94 L. Ed. 1017 (1950).</span>**

PMC’s don’t meet – duties are distinct
Elsea '10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – legislative attorney (Jennfifer K., 1/7/10, "Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Legal Issues," Congressional Research Service Report for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R40991.pdf)</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A critical question appears to be whether … likely be determined in accordance with the prevailing local law.</span>**

**And the US owns only a minimal fraction of PMCs in Afghanistan**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz</span></span>, Specialist in Defense Acquisition January 19, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, (The Department of Defense’s Use of Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Background, Analysis, and Options for Congress, Congressional Research Service, <span style="color: #1a1819; font-family: Times;">www.crs.gov</span>)**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In Afghanistan, there are currently 52 … stated a goal of closing down all PSCs in two years.</span>**

Whole different set of lit that US has no control over
Elsea '10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – legislative attorney (Jennfifer K., 1/7/10, "Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Legal Issues," Congressional Research Service Report for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R40991.pdf)</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The working group drafted a new … framework of domestic and international law.</span>**


90% of PMC's are not even American, the US has no real control of them
Elliott '10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – staff writer @ TPM Muckracker (Justin, 1/21/10, "Number Of Private Security Contractors In Afghanistan Doubles In Just Four Months," http://tpmmuckraker.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/01/number_of_private_security_contractors_in_afghanis.php)</span>


<span style="color: black;">It's worth noting two points …the report notes.</span>

==<span style="color: black;">Kritiks</span>== 
==Counterplans==