<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[[toc]]
</span>
=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>= 
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Contention One: Inherency </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1. Political and techno-strategic manipulation distorts north Koreas military as a threat, justifying U.S. intervention. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 14.35pt; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bleiker, Professor of International Relations, November 18, 2003 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 14.35pt;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Roland Bleiker, PhD in International Relations at ANU, professor of international relations at the University of Queensland, 11/18/2003, International Affairs Volume 79 Issue 4, Pages 719 – 737 www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118868835/abstract] </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 14.35pt; margin-right: .3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 14.35pt; margin-right: .3in; margin-top: 0in;">For decades, **__the US and …__** __as strongly hyped as ever.__7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2. U.S. intervention has led to a sponsored and regulated trafficking system in which people have served as sex providers for U.S. soldiers. </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">MOON, Professor of Political Science, 97  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Katharine Moon, Department of Political Science and. Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies Wellesley College, Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S.,- Korea Relations ] </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; text-indent: 14.35pt;">As a child growing up in South Korea, I was taught at an early age that there were good Korean women and bad Korean women. Perhaps I was four or five. I learned that there were women to be admired, praised, emulated – like my grandmother, a sacrificial mother and trustworthy wife – and women to be noticed only from the corner of an eye, never to be spoken about. I was never to copy their heavy eyeliner-look, never to imitate their close walk side by side a foreigner in uniform. Their foreigner was the U.S. GI stationed in Korea, and the woman, a //kijich’on// (military camptown prostitute). </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**__The selling and buying …__** such joint U.S.-ROK control. [page 1-2]</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States federal governments military and police presence in south Korea.**  </span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Contention Two: North Korea </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">  </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1. Evangelism of fear and logic of identity creates anxiety and the need to eradicate danger creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 2.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 2.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Campbell, 1998 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">[David Campbell, “Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity”, University of Minnesota Press pg. 49-50]</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**__In fostering an evangelism of …__** death in **__macabre visions__**. 49 (page 49-50)</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; text-indent: .5in;">*Strikethrough added- We don’t endorse the gender bias of this author.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2. Security logic strikes endless fear in the hearts of the people to create adherence to fascism in order to cement an American political identity in contrast to the Other.  </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Neocleous, 2008 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">[Mark <span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Neocleous</span>, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University**,** <span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">08</span> (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 119-122, Published 2008)]</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> Writing in 1953, after having … **__us the importance of loyalty.__**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">3. Current threat rhetoric and policies of management solidify previous constructions of knowledge and assumptions causing indefinite, serial policy failure. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 3.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dillon, 2000  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Michael **Dillon**, Professor of Political Science at Lancaster and internationally renowed author and Julian Reid, lecturer on international relations and progessor of political Science at King’s College in Longon, **2k** (Alternatives, Volume 25, Issue 1: Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency)]  </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .3in; margin-right: .3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">As a precursor to global governance, … </span>**__in terms of policy failure.__** </span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt; letter-spacing: -0.2pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">4. These threat manipulations could escalate words into all out war through miscalcuation </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Armstrong, 10</span>** – Professor of history and … )</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">New York (CNN) -- The Korean … __War, not start it anew__. <span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span></span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">6 . That causes global catastrophe  </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">HAYES AND HAMEL-GREEN, </span>**Dec 14**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, 2009  </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, 50-1-09, December 14, d/a: 7/14/10, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">The consequences of __failing to …__ consideration from the international community</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; mso-outline-level: 1; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Contention III: Slavery for Security  </span>**</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1. The military deems sexual slavery as crucial to sustain to national security and the economy  </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kwon, April 2000 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Insook Kwon- assistant prof.@ University of Bangmok April 2000, “A Feminist Exploration of Military Conscription: The Gendering of the Connections Between Nationalism, Militarism and Citizenship in South Korea”, International Feminist Journal of Politics, Vol.3, Issue: 1, pg 26-54] </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">So long as the conventional ‘… **__source in the 1970s__** (Shin 1991).  </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2. This military inspired sexual slavery is valorized as aiding the masculinazation of some U.S. soldiers – serving to bolster some notions of American national and racial superiority. Military sex workers are marginalized in service to the state. </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kwon, April 2000 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Insook Kwon- assistant prof.@ University of Bangmok April 2000, “A Feminist Exploration of Military Conscription: The Gendering of the Connections Between Nationalism, Militarism and Citizenship in South Korea”, International Feminist Journal of Politics, Vol.3, Issue: 1, pg 26-54] </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**__The__** __self-**sacrifice of** so-called ‘…__ the South Korean people,’ happy.  </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">3. Sex workers are marginalized twice – once as comprising their honor and compromised for the security of the state. Feminized sacrifice and defense of the nation converge to expose their voiceless, invisible sacrifice to an outsider </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kwon, April 2000 </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Insook Kwon- assistant prof.@ University of Bangmok April 2000, “A Feminist Exploration of Military Conscription: The Gendering of the Connections Between Nationalism, Militarism and Citizenship in South Korea”, International Feminist Journal of Politics, Vol.3, Issue: 1, pg 26-54] </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">However**__, women working in the … of an outsider or enemy.__**  </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span></span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">4. The military demand for sex workers causes thousands to be trafficked and exploited. These workers are subject to basic human rights violations, violence, lack of agency and racism. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 2.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 4.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in; mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">THIRD WORLD NETWORK, Sept, 2002</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">[Kanaga Raja, 9/02 “Women former Philippines and former USSR trafficked into south korea,”]</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 2.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 2.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">The IOM's research report, titled … of human beings for prostitution.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span></span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">5. Military exploitation of Korea is and symbolizes the US’s exploitation of Korea—only withdrawal of US presence solves domination </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Moon 97</span>**,</span>
<span style="margin-left: .3in;"> Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .3in; margin-right: .3in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .3in; margin-right: .3in; margin-top: 0in;">I think there is yet … **__the sexual domination of the GI.__** </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>=