[[toc]]
Aff cites: Jeff Huang, [[mailto:jeffdh5@gmail.com|jeffdh5@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: Jun sun Yoo, [[mailto:junsunyoo@gmail.com|junsunyoo@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
===1AC – Golden Desert + Stanford=== 

Plan: The President of the United States of America should issue an executive order to withdraw United States Forces, Korea. We’ll clarify.

**Contention 1: Securitization**

Current military policy towards North Korea is marked by a continuation of Bush era coercive diplomacy that treats North Korea as a foreign enemy, making reconciliation impossible
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mason, 10</span></span> (Jeff Mason, Reuters reporter, 2010, “Obama tells military: prepare for North Korea aggression”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6]]</span>)</span>

This coercive diplomacy is shrouded by militarist rhetoric towards North Korea, increasing marginalization by defining the world in terms of good versus evil
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker, Professor of International Relations @ UQueensland, 03</span></span> (<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Roland, “A Rogue Is a Rogue Is a Rogue: US Foreign Policy and the Korean Nuclear Crisis,” International Affairs, Vol. 79, No. 4, July 2003, p 731-732)</span></span>

This common perception dominates American policymaking towards the “Korea crisis” – media rhetoric characterizes North Korea only as a “rogue” state, creating an irrational fear that makes military response the only option
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cumings, Professor of History @ UChicago, 05 </span></span>(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88)</span>

This creates a perpetual state of warfare – violent framing of North Korea justifies permanent military presence on the Korean peninsula
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pena, Senior Defense Policy Analyst @ Cato, 02</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">–“Axis of Evil: Threat or Chimera?” Charles Charles Peña is senior defense policy analyst at the Cato Institute (Mediterranean Quarterly, Volume 13, Number 3, Summer 2002, 40-57)</span></span>

This empirically flawed policy framework leads to an endless cycle of violence – American aggression incites North Korean nuclearization and retaliatory response, making escalation inevitable –
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker, 03</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Roland,</span></span> PhD in International Relations at ANU, professor of international relations at the University of Queensland, 11/18, International Affairs <span style="color: black;">Volume 79 Issue 4</span>, Pages 719 – 737 (<span style="color: black;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118868835/</span>abstract). 

Securitization ensures that status quo talks fail – Antagonism due to previous militaristic incidents prevents reconciliation
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herman, 2/10/</span></span><span class="cardChar">11 (Steve, Writer for Voices of America, a trusted news source for information since 1942, “North Korea Rules Out Further Military Talks With South”, http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/North-Korea-Says-No-Need-for-Further-Military-Talks-with-South-115709359.html)</span>

Securitization guarantees endless warfighting and astonishing violence – Whole populations are mobilized in order to slaughter the people of the “Other” nations such as North Korea 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell,1998</span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> <span class="cardChar">David Campbell, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998. (199 – 202)</span>

**Contention 2: Solvency**

US troop removal key – only a US withdrawal sends a credible signal to Korea
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Kim Johng<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Sohn, 09</span></span> (Tongail Korea Net, “US Should Terminate Military Presence in S Korea As Early As Possible,” 9-8, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://tongilkorea.net/2009/09/08/us-should-terminate-military-presence-in-s-korea-as-early-as-possible/]]</span>)</span>

Empirics are on our side – Korea opened up to us the only time we considered withdrawal
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cumings, 05 </span></span>(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 474) </span>

Reconciliation trumps militaristic strategy – the status quo framework makes war inevitable
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker, 05</span></span> (Roland, Ph.D. in International Relations from the Australian National University, Divided Korea : toward a culture of reconciliation, 2005)</span>

Security is a societal constructed based on how we position ourselves in the world – The fetish for national security creates a self-fulfilling prophecy because American security necessitates the de-securitization of another nation
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prerna Lal 08</span></span>, Post-Graduate Student in International Relations, Deconstructing the National Security State, No Date Given, http://prernalal.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/css-deconstructing-the-nat-sec-state.pdf

Plan opens up a new way of approaching policy decisions – Resolving the Korean crisis key to change our responses to future crises
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang, professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college 03</span></span> (David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH & BH)

Policymakers are limited to a realist view of North Korea that prevents a true understanding of its motivating factors that are a result of emotional, historical, and social contexts. This closes off the space for discussion because policymakers dismiss all alternatives to realism. Only the plan opens up a new way of viewing North Korea
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker, 05</span></span> (Roland, Co-director of the Rotary International Center for Foreign Studies @ the University of Queensland, “Divided Korea”, p.xxxi)</span>

Eurocentric assumptions about realism have empirically been unable to explain Asian anomalies, a new approach is needed – our evidence is comparative
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang, Professor of Government @ Dartmouth, 03</span></span> professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college (David C., Spring 2003, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks”, International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10)</span>

=== === 
===1AC – Grapevine + SCU=== 

Text: The president of the United States should issue an executive order to withdraw United States Forces, Korea. We’ll clarify.

**Contention 1: Inherency**

United States forward presence in South Korea will continue now, despite Korean objection
Ben <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hancock</span></span>, Journalist and Contributor for The Diplomat, 3-10-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/03/02/us-forces-ok-in-rok-for-now/|US Forces OK in ROK-for Now]]</span>,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/03/02/us-forces-ok-in-rok-for-now/]]</span>

And as with the controversy surrounding… rather than just a number

This basing is de facto permanent; there is no likelihood for US withdrawal
Ben <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hancock</span></span>, Journalist and Contributor for The Diplomat, 3-10-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/03/02/us-forces-ok-in-rok-for-now/|US Forces OK in ROK-for Now]]</span>,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/03/02/us-forces-ok-in-rok-for-now/]]</span>

Stanton for his part is concerned that… thousands of US civilians within North Korean missile range.


**<span class="cite">Contention 2: Advantages</span>**

Advantage one is structural violence

The US military has committed over 100,000 crimes – these crimes, often gendered in nature, have been hidden by the US military to prevent Korean punishment
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Action Center</span></span>, 6/23/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span>, Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea, Korean International War Crimes Tribunal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm]]</span>

Crimes committed by US soldiers were found as early… <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">will be much higher </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">than what official figures suggest</span></span>.

South Korea is unique – no other place in the world does the US military have such immunity over crimes committed on foreign soil
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Action Center</span></span>, 6/23/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span>, Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea, Korean International War Crimes Tribunal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm]]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">No other place in the world, does </span></span>… <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">only exacerbates the unfair situation</span></span>.

These crimes are a product of preparing for war. This preparation on the Korean peninsula makes violence inevitable – Troops devastate communities and dehumanize local populations as part of their military training on the peninsula
Gwyn <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk</span></span>, Associate Professor of Women and Gender Studies, 3/14/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span>, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific,” Foreign Policy In Focus, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Violence against women recurs around U.S. bases</span></span>… <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">belief that perpetrators will not be apprehended.</span></span>

The degradation of human rights is the root cause of war and genocide – when humans are reduced to objects, any atrocity is justified.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube, 1997 </span></span>(Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm.) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Assuming we are able to predict who or what are optimized humans… <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">inevitable for every epoch has evil and dehumanization is evil's most powerful weapon.</span></span></span>

Structural violence of caused by crimes massively outweighs a military conflict
Dietrich <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fischer</span></span>, Director, European University Center for Peace, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002</span></span>, “Twenty Questions for Peace Economics,” http://www.aug.edu/~sbajmb/paper-DPE.PDF

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">Galtung coined the notion of “structural violence</span></span>… <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">because it is less dramatic </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">than a bomb explosion</span></span>.

The claim that these forces are “necessary to solve violence” white-washes horrific state-sponsored violence of everyday life – this makes all impacts inevitable
Chris <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo</span></span>, Ph.D @ University of Wisconsin, Madison Department of Philosophy, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span></span>, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, pg. 30

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">Seeing war as </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">necessarily <span style="background-color: aqua;">embedded in constant </span></span></span>__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… </span>__oppressive, corporate, technocratic states.

Advantage two is imperialism

US military presence in South Korea is based on dominance and exploitation – re-establishing Korean sovereignty is necessary to end identity subordination
Gwyn <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk</span></span>, Associate Professor of Women and Gender Studies, 3/14/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span>, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific,” Foreign Policy In Focus, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">The power dynamics of militarism in the Asia-Pacific region </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… histories of annexation, <span style="background-color: aqua;">colonization, exploitation, and war. </span></span></span>

US military presence ensures racist imperialism – views South Korea as a “developing country” in perpetuity
Sunny <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Woan</span></span>, J.D., Public Interest and Social Justice Law, emphasis in Critical Race Theory, Santa Clara University School of Law, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span>, “White Sexual Imperialism, Washington and Lee Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice, pg. 278

This Article proposes a new framework for studying… jurisprudence and the experiences of Asian and diasporic Asian women.

In the specific instance of the Koreas, troops are stationed in the Koreas to deter the Korean “conflict” – This is the //__only historical instance__// where the interests of American policymakers have superseded the rights of the local populations. This reinforces the racist imperialist ideology that the Koreans are inherently inferior to white male soldiers. 

Racist imperialism in the Koreas justifies the extermination of local populations in the pursuit of national interest – The military uses violence to achieve goals and makes Korean conflict inevitable
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eunwoo ‘8</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">, </span></span>is Senior Researcher at the Institute for Gender Research, Seoul National University. He received his Ph.D. in Sociology from Seoul National University, 2008 [Joo, October 6, “Under the Gaze of the American Other” www.ekoreajournal.net/upload/html/HTML4419.html, Download Date: July 31, 2010]

Sensing such overt secrets of the elite early on, the shrewd middle class, motivated …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> brutally murdered Korean prostitutes in brothels serving U.S. soldiers. </span></span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">The claim that troops on the Korean peninsula are necessary to deter North Korean aggression creates a self-fulfilling prophecy. It is the rhetoric of North Korea as a rogue nation, that causes danger – Destroys possibility of reconciliation through perpetuating our relationship with the Koreas </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker</span></span>, Ph.D. in international relations from the Australian National University, Jul <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003 </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, </span></span> International Affairs, http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570 DA: 18/05/2010 pg.15 jb, sob) 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Once again, <span style="background-color: aqua;">the world is divided into 'good' and 'evil'; once again</span>… </span></span>fruitful, regional, multilateral negotiation".'63 

US imperialism makes war inevitable – The need to promote the imperial power means pre-emptive strike becomes necessary.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kuang et al 5</span></span> (Xinnian, teaches modern Chinese literature at Tsinghua University, “Preemptive War and a World Out of Control” http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/positions/v013/13.1kuang.html) JL

The existing world order was constructed under the leadership… of potential profit and a sign of civilizational disparity.

**Contention 3: Solvency**

Only withdrawal of our military basing solves gendered crimes based off of unequal power hierarchies in the Koreas – It stops military expansion, which is the locus of the US goals towards full spectrum dominance.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk, 2008</span></span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>) Addressing Militarism

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Militarism is a system of institutions, investments, and values… <span style="background-color: aqua;">Our job is to listen to them and to act accordingly.</span> </span></span>

Removal of US bases in Korea challenges the legitimacy of imperialism – It reinforces anti-militarist movements and is a key test case in breaking down US dominance.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">TML 2010</span></span> Daily On-Line Newspaper of the Communist Party of Canada, “The Anti-War Movement of the Peoples of East Asia Cannot Be Stopped” http://cpcml.ca/Tmld2010/D40102.htm 


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">These <span style="background-color: aqua;">declarations </span>and promises <span style="background-color: aqua;">were in recognition of</span>… <span style="background-color: aqua;">constant lies and threats against the peace.</span> </span></span>

Our very discourse in this debate round is necessary for breaking down the cycle of militarism and imperialism – Student-led debate is the new hope for the future because the understanding of militarism paves the way to becoming true peacemakers.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly 94</span></span> (Petra, founder of German Green Party. __Thinking Green__ pg. 56)

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">War, peace and justice are the most critical</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… <span style="background-color: aqua;">peacemakers if we want to have hope for the future.</span> </span></span>

**Contention 4: Framework**

Their disads are nothing more than the Orientalist threat-construction used to mask and justify structural violence in areas of the world such as the Koreas.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marandi 09</span></span>—head of dept. of North American studies, U Tehran (Seyed, Western Media Representations, Iran, and Orientalist Stereotypes, January 2009, http://conflictsforum.org/briefings/western-media-representations.pdf, AMiles) ellipses in orig 

Orientalism describes the various schools of thought… not to be on the side of the executioner.8 

Furthermore, realism doesn’t apply to Asia – Applying a Eurocentric ideology to Asia leads to conflict through misunderstanding.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang </span></span>professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 03 </span></span>(David C., Spring 2003, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “Getting Asia Wrong: The need for new analytical frameworks”, International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4, Accessed 5/18/10, JH & BH) 

During this time Asia itself-sometimes defined as including… article is that more careful attention to their application can strengthen the theories themselves.

Don’t evaluate utilitarian thought – Status quo bias causes us to underestimate the impact of these discriminatory outcomes. This justifies a feedback loop where we accept the established order and treat disadvantaged populations as suitable victims necessary for our safety. 
Lu-in <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wang</span></span>, Professor of Law @ University of Pittsburgh School of Law, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span> “Discrimination by Default: How Racism Becomes Routine” Pg 90-97

The Normalcy and Normalization of Discrimination Because counterfactual… <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">serves to reinforce the designation of those others as suitable victims</span></span>.4 

<span class="Cite0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates the agency of individuals within the system</span> </span>
Roland <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k</span></span> Senior Lecturer and Coordinater of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, 2000, p. 48-49
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The very notion of <span style="background-color: aqua;">prediction</span> does, by its own logic,</span></span>... <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">and the ensuing political practices.</span></span>

We must act now to solve current problems. To wait for the perfect solution at the perfect time is to deny our souls and freedom, allowing suffering.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dublin 92</span></span> (Max, University of Toronto, __Futurehype__) 

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10.5pt;">When those who have power </span></span>… to any and all possible good futures. 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Prophecy making manipulates those in the present and blinds them to alternatives – Instead, it inspires us to make faulty action. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dublin 92</span></span> (Max, University of Toronto, __Futurehype__) 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Talk of the inevitable by our prophets… </span></span>fulfillment of the prophet, not of oneself.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]