=Aff= 
[[toc]]
==<span style="text-align: -webkit-auto;">GMU 1AC</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Contention 1: Masked Assumptions**</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Orientalism has historically served to legitimize militarization against the eastern stranger. Rooted deep in the western subconscious, it has been revived once again to demonize the people of the Middle East. The occupation in Iraq resides upon an orientalist backdrop that believes a security state is needed to tame these barbaric orients, dismissing their attempts to free themselves from this curve as mere terrorism. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Isakhan</span></span> 7/<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span></span> Research Fellow, Centre for Dialogue, La Trobe University (Benjamin, July 2010, “Military orientalism and the occupation of Iraq”, International Journal of Contemporary Iraqi Studies- tri-yearly peer-reviewed journal, Volume 4, Issue 1&2, p.211-217, MH)
It is now ...<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> uncompromising action</span></span>. 
== == 

Objective studies of Iraqis are not possible – the process of knowledge gathering operates on cultural preconceptions that dooms attempts to predict oriental cultures
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Lockman 05</span></span>—Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies, NYU. PhD, Harvard (Zachary, Critique from the Right, CR: The New Centennial Review 5.1 (2005) 63-110, MUSE, AMiles)

But there is ... of theorizing himself. 
== == 


Contention 2: Unintended Consequences
Orientalism’s predictions are inherently ethnocentric – we see what they do in terms of our experiences; this creates misunderstandings, inhibiting conflict resolution and creating endless wars
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Barger 08</span></span>—Anthropology, Indiana University (Ken, Ethnocentrism, http://www.iupui.edu/~anthkb/ethnocen.htm, AMiles)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ethnocentrism</span> leads to ...</span> for all concerned.

The backdrop Orientalism operates from is racist at its core
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Warraq 6</span></span> (Ibn, founded the Institute for the Secularization of Islamic Society, http://www.islam-watch.org/IbnWarraq/EdwardSaid.htm, date accessed: 7/8/2010) AJK
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">Said</span> not only ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and eastern weakness). </span></span>


The projection of racialized stereotypes towards the other makes nuclear war inevitable
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">KOVEL 88</span></span> (Joel, White Racism: A Psychohistory, 1988, p. xxix-xxx)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">As people become ...<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> by racial oppositions</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>
Orientalism’s creation of threats narrows the public sphere prohibiting alternative discourses – the plan is a pre-requisite to social change
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ben-Porath ‘3</span></span> (Sigal, Ph.D. Phil. Social and Political Thought, Assistant Prof. at Grad. School. Ed. – U. Pennsylvania, GSE Publications, “Radicalizing Democratic Education: Unity and Dissent in Wartime”, http:// repository.upenn.edu/gse_pubs/25/)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">When a democracy enters</span></span> a ... <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"> of</span> civil <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">liberties</span>. </span>
[[#_Toc281489276]]
[[#_Toc281489277]]
[[#_Toc281489278]][[#x-And,_Baghdad_is_the_capital_of_Iraq]]And, Baghdad is the capital of Iraq
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the free dictionary 2010</span></span> ([[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/capital+of+Iraq]])
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">capital of Iraq</span></span> and largest city of Iraq; located on the Tigris River; "<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Baghdad</span></span> is one of the great cities of the Muslim world"


Contention 3: Reaching Peace
Peace is impossible with good-evil dichotomies; we have to rehumanize adversaries to legitimize constructivist. Rather than just flipping the labels and showcasing the west as evil, we must abandon demonizing portrayals altogether. Building positive peace requires normalizing reconcialiation within our discourse to counteract demonizing representations and modify cultural devices to association with humanity and not warmongering, turning violence towards dialogue; restructuring debate towards associating with the other and against demonizing images.
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ivie ‘7</span> </span> (Robert, Prof. Comm. And Culture. – U. Indiana Bloomington, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, “Fighting Terror by Rite of Redemption and Reconciliation”, 10(2), Project Muse)
Most notably, this ...<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"> of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">redemptive violence</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>


Solving racism requires judges to decolonize their minds; the process shatters our beliefs in the undertones of white supremacy
Wendy Brown <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Scott 99</span>, professor of @ Tulane Law School in New Orleans “Transformative desegregation: liberating hearts and minds,” 315
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Judges</span> and college ...<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"> both colonized and colonizer</span>."
Recognition of manifestations of meta-racism is key – behind the illusion of non-existence, racism lies untouched. Only by exposing it can we destroy its power.
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">BARDNT</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">1991</span></span> Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991 Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Racism can be expressed ... enforcing of our prejudices. </span>


Such transracial, international solidarity is the only hope we have of eliminating nuclear weapons
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kovel 83</span></span> (Joel, psychiatrist and psychoanalyst; Against the State of Nuclear Terror; South End Press, Boston p.118-121.) SVK
Every nation of ...<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"> will annihilate everyone</span>
Political action is essential; our actions expose the silence on securitizing discourses – this enables mobilization against a militarized future
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Stabile and Rentschler ‘5</span></span> (Carol, Associate Prof. Dept. Journalism and Mass Comm. – U. Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and Carrie, Assistant Prof. Comm. And Art History and Comm. Studies – McGill U., Feminist Formations, “States of Insecurity and the Gendered Politics of Fear”, 17(3), Fall, Project Muse)
In our own ... androcentric self-interest. 


Contention 4 – Framework:
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">H. Education impacts rely on a bankrupt “banking model” that constructs students as empty vessels; our support of a critical post-colonial pedagogy that opens space for activism to improve our society and the only true internal to education.</span>
Kailash C. <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Baral</span></span> professor of English and director of the Northeast Campus of the Central Institute of English and Foreign Languages (CIEFL) <span class="BoldUnderlineChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2006</span></span> (“Postcoloniality, Critical Pedagogy, and English Studies in India” Pedagogy 6.3 (2006) 475-491 http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/pedagogy/v006/6.3baral.html)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">Any pedagogical strategy</span> ...<span style="font-size: 6.5pt;"> and culture." </span>


== == 
=Negative= 
we've gone for cap/orientalism/consult nato