[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Contention 1: A Rogue </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Status quo security discussions over the Korean Peninsula represent a return to a militaristic Cold War rhetoric so typified by the reassuring yet familiar dichotomy between Good vs. Evil, Inside vs. Outside, Us vs. Them.  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Bleiker, 2003</span></span> (Roland, “A Rogue Is a Rogue Is a Rogue: US Foreign Policy and the Korean Nuclear Crisis,” International Affairs, Vol. 79, No. 4, July 2003, p 731-732)</span>


**And these discussions paralyze policymakers from escaping a Cold War rationality that can do nothing but consider North Korea as an evil threat to legitimize the continued presence of US troops on the Korean Peninsula**
**Pena 2002** <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">–“Axis of Evil: Threat or Chimera?”, Charles Charles Peña is senior defense policy analyst at the Cato Institute pp (Mediterranean Quarterly, Volume 13, Number 3, Summer 2002, 40-57)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> </span>
**<span class="underline"><span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">And, any possibility of a global conflict beginning on the Korean Peninsula would begin from a Otherizing rhetoric that demonizes North Korea and leaves Americans powerless</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> </span></span>**
**Cumings 2005** <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) ncp</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> </span>
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ultimately these constructions are both epistemologically and ontologically flawed—they rely on false assumptions about the world that lead to the very fears and threats they try so hard to escape.  </span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Prerna Lal 08</span></span>,** Post-Graduate Student in International Relations, Deconstructing the National Security State, No Date Given, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://prernalal.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/css-deconstructing-the-nat-sec-state.pdf]]</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span>
And, this makes extinction inevitable – Entire populations are mobilized for the purpose of slaughter in the name of life’s necessity
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Campbell 1998</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[by David Campbell, Professor of International Politics at Univ. of Newcastle. Writing Security: US Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity. Pg 200-202]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
**And, a fundamental rethinking of security is necessary to avoid militaristic and statecentric approaches that are unable to see North Korea as anything but a unstable and dangerous rogue state**
<span style="margin-left: 0in; tab-stops: 184.5pt 301.5pt;">**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Bleiker, 2001</span></span> (Roland, Co-director of the Rotary International Center for Foreign Studies @ the University of Queensland, “Divided Korea”, p.xxxi)**</span>

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">North Korea is the key starting point for overhauling existing IR theory – aff produces a new way of approaching policy decisions.
Bleiker, 2001</span></span>** (Roland, Co-director of the Rotary International Center for Foreign Studies @ the University of Queensland, “Identity and Security in Korea,” The Pacific Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, 142-143) 


**Policymakers claim to objectively describe the North Korean threat, while employing the myth of North Korea as a “hermit kingdom” to dismiss differing opinions and a wealth of information to the contrary. This makes the state the only arbiter of “realistic” policies.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Bleiker, 2001</span></span> (Roland, Co-director of the Rotary International Center for Foreign Studies @ the University of Queensland, “Divided Korea”, p.xxxvi)**</span>

**Scary predictions of “Asian” war and instability are inherently flawed and have repeatedly been disproven time and time again. But these predictions also provide us with a unique opportunity to re-evaluate the underlying assumptions of dominant international relations paradigms.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica;">Kang 03 </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)</span></span>

**It is our intellectual responsibility to reject militarization and its depictions of violence. Our discursive act allows us to disrupt global systems of power, creating space for libratory politics.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Giroux, 2004** <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Henry, “War on Terror The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States,” Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 220-221)</span></span></span>







=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]