[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

ought=desirability 

St=preventing loss of human life

Obs1 The US military dictionary defines weapons as “a thing designed or used for inflicting bodily harm or physical damage.” Any argumentation, in order to be topical, must concern nuclear weapons, and not other nuclear technologies. 

C1: The risk of the launch of nuclear weapons is too high to justify their possession. 
	
Risk of accidental launch is great. Destructive power is enormous ... Though the security surrounding nuclear weapons may be high, they are still ultimately controlled by humans, who always have the ability to make mistakes. This is evidenced in the events of August 2007. According to Robert Scheer, contributing editor for The Nation, 
	
“One need not ... handling nuclear weapons.”  

According to Valerie Wilson in The Power of Zero, 
“The spread of the bomb ... crashed or sunk.” 

C2: Nuclear theft is likely. 

Graham Allison and Andrei Kokoshin in The National Interest, 
Osama bin Laden and his associates have serious nuclear ambitions. For almost a decade they have been actively seeking nuclear weapons. In 2000, the CIA reportedly intercepted a message in which a member of al Qaeda boasted of plans for a “Hiroshima” against America. Bin Laden himself has declared that acquiring nuclear weapons is a religious duty. “If I have indeed acquired [nuclear] weapons,” he once said, “then I thank God for enabling me to do so.” When forging an alliance of terrorist organizations in 1998, he issued a statement entitled “The Nuclear Bomb of Islam.” “It is the duty of Muslims to prepare as much force as possible to terrorize the enemies of God.”Faced with an assertive, determined opponent now doing everything it can to destroy this terrorist network, al Qaeda has every incentive to take its best shot. Russia also faces adversaries whose objectives could be advanced by  using nuclear weapons. Chechen terrorist groups, for example, have demonstrated little restraint in their willingness to kill civilians and may be tempted to strike a definitive blow to assert independence from Russia. They have already issued, in effect, a radioactive warning by planting a package containing cesium 137 at Izmailovsky Park in Moscow. All of Russia’s national security documents have clearly identified international terrorism as the greatest threat to Russia’s national security. Russia’s geographical proximity to South Asia and the Middle East increases concerns over terrorist fallout from those regions. 

According to Matthew Bunn in “A Mathematical Model of the Risk of Nuclear Terrorism,”
“The principal source of black market nuclear material is likely to be nuclear theft, by outsiders or insiders not directly connected to terrorist groups. Numerous cases of theft of weapons-usable nuclear material, apparently with the intention of selling the stolen nuclear material on the black market, have occurred. he International Atomic Energy Agency has documented eighteen seizures of stolen HEU or separated plutonium confirmed by the states concerned. More incidents have occurred, but the states in question have not been willing to confirm them.” 


In addition, nuclear thieves can adapt to changes in security. According to Bunn, 

“Intelligent and adaptive adversaries may react to security upgrades not by giving up but by increasing their capabilities recruiting more people, buying better weapons, and developing more sophisticated tactics. If nuclear facilities need only defend against a handful of outsiders with limited armament, or one insider, relatively simple and low-cost security upgrades will be sufficient. If, on the other hand, nuclear facilities must withstand large teams of well-trained and well-armed militants, and the risk of large insider conspiracies is high, then the security measures needed to reduce the risk of theft to an acceptable level would be expensive and complex. There are presumably some constraints on terror groups' ability to increase their capabilities, but no one knows for sure where the upper bound lies.” 

Security measures may be strong in most nuclear states, but only one stolen nuclear weapons is needed to launch a devastating attack. If nuclear weapons were to be stolen and used by terrorists, no amount of deterrence would stop them. 

Motive: There can be no doubt that Osama bin Laden and his associates have serious nuclear ambitions. For almost a decade they have been actively seeking nuclear weapons, and, as President Bush has said, they would use such weapons against the United States or its allies “in a heartbeat.” In 2000, the CIA reportedly intercepted a message in which a member of al Qaeda boasted of plans for a “Hiroshima” against America. According to the U.S. Justice Department indictment for the 1998 bombings of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, “at various times from at least as early as 1993, Osama bin Laden and others, known and unknown, made efforts to obtain the components of nuclear weapons.” In addition, a former al Qaeda member has described attempts to buy uranium of South African origin, repeated travels to three Central Asian states to try to buy a complete warhead or weapons-usable material, and discussions with Chechen criminal groups in which money and drugs were offered for nuclear weapons.

Bin Laden himself has declared that acquiring nuclear weapons is a religious duty. “If I have indeed acquired [nuclear] weapons,” he once said, “then I thank God for enabling me to do so.” When forging an alliance of terrorist organizations in 1998, he issued a statement entitled “The Nuclear Bomb of Islam.” Characterized by renowned Middle Eastern scholar Bernard Lewis as “a magnificent piece of eloquent, at times even poetic Arabic prose,” it states: “It is the duty of Muslims to prepare as much force as possible to terrorize the enemies of God.” If anything, the ongoing American-led war on global terrorism is heightening our adversary’s incentive to obtain and use a nuclear weapon. Al Qaeda has discovered that it can no longer attack the United States with impunity. Faced with an assertive, determined opponent now doing everything it can to destroy this terrorist network, al Qaeda has every incentive to take its best shot. 

Russia also faces adversaries whose objectives could be advanced by  using nuclear weapons. Chechen terrorist groups, for example, have demonstrated little, if any, restraint in their willingness to kill civilians and may be tempted to strike a definitive blow to assert independence from Russia. They have already issued, in effect, a radioactive warning
by planting a package containing cesium 137, an extremely radioactive isotope and potential ingredient for a “dirty bomb,” at Izmailovsky Park in Moscow and then tipping off a Russian reporter. Particularly as the remaining Chechen terrorists have been marginalized over the course of the second Chechen war, they could well imagine that by destroying one Russian city and credibly threatening Moscow, they could persuade Russia to halt its campaign against them.

All of Russia’s national security documents—its National Security Concept, its military doctrine, and the recently updated Foreign Policy Concept— have clearly identified international terrorism as the greatest threat to Russia’s national security. As President Vladimir Putin noted in reviewing Russian security priorities with senior members of the Foreign Ministry in January 2001, “I would like to stress the danger of international terrorism and fundamentalism of any, absolutely any stripe.” The proliferation of religious extremism in Central Asia, relating directly to the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan, and the illegal drug trade threaten Russia’s borders and weaken the Commonwealth of Independent States. The civil war in Tajikistan, tensions in Georgia’s Pankisi Gorge, and the conflicts in South Ossetia, Abkhazia, and Nagorno-Karabakh—all close to the borders of the Russian Federation—provide feeding grounds for the extremism that fuels terrorism. Additionally, Russia’s geographical proximity to South Asia and the Middle East increases concerns over terrorist fallout from those regions. President Putin has been consistent in identifying the even darker hue that weapons of mass destruction add to terrorism. In a December 2001 interview in which he named international terrorism the “plague of the 21st century,” Putin stated: “We all know exactly how New York and Washington were hit. . . . Was it ICBMs? What threat are we talking about?We are talking about the use of mass destruction weapons terrorists may obtain.”

Separatist militants (in Kashmir, the Balkans, and elsewhere) and messianic terrorist groups (like Aum Shinrikyo, which attacked a Tokyo subway with chemical weapons in 1995) could have similar motives to commit nuclear terrorism. As Palestinians look to uncertain prospects for independent statehood—never mind whose leadership actually increased
that uncertainty in recent years—Israel becomes an ever more attractive target for a nuclear terrorist attack. Since a nuclear detonation in any part of the world would likely be extremely destabilizing, it would threaten American and Russian interests even if few or no Russians or Americans were killed.

Means: To the best of our knowledge, no terrorist group can now detonate a nuclear weapon. But as Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has stated, “The absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.” Are the means beyond terrorists’ reach, even that of relatively sophisticated groups like al Qaeda? 

Over four decades of Cold War competition, the superpowers spent trillions of dollars assembling mass arsenals, stockpiles, nuclear complexes, and enterprises that engaged hundreds of thousands of accomplished scientists and engineers. Technical know-how cannot be uninvented. Reducing arsenals that include some 40,000 nuclear weapons and the equivalents of more than 100,000 nuclear weapons in the form of highly enriched uranium and plutonium to a manageable level is a gargantuan challenge. Providing gainful employment for those that comprised what once was a million-man nuclear establishment is a critical challenge as well. 

Terrorists could seek to buy an assembled nuclear weapon from insiders or criminals. Nuclear weapons are known to exist in eight states: the United States, Russia, Great Britain, France, China, Israel, India, and Pakistan. North Korea’s admission, in October 2002, that it has an active uranium-enriching program signifes that it may soon become part of the nuclear threat. Security measures, such as “permissive action links” designed to prevent unauthorized use, are most reliable in the United States, Russia, France, and Great Britain. These safeguards, as well as command-and-control systems, are much less reliable in the two newest nuclear states—India and Pakistan. But even where good systems are in place, maintaining high levels of security requires constant attention from high-level government officials.

Alternatively, terrorists could try to build a nuclear weapon. The only component that is especially diffcult to obtain is the nuclear missile material— highly enriched uranium or plutonium. Although the largest stockpiles of weapons-grade material are found in the nuclear weapons programs of the United States and Russia, missile material in sufficient quantities to make a crude nuclear weapon can also be found in many civilian settings around the globe. Some 345 research reactors in 58 nations together contain about 20 metric tons of highly enriched uranium, many in quantities sufficient to build a bomb.3 Other civilian reactors produce enough weapons-grade nuclear material to pose a proliferation threat; several European states, Japan, Russia, and India reprocess spent fuel to separate out plutonium for use as new fuel. The United States has actually facilitated the spread of missile material in the past—over three decades of the Atoms for Peace program, the United States exported 749 kg of plutonium and 26.6 metric tons of highly enriched uranium to 39 countries. 



==Negative== 
Negative

Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons. 

Ought is defined by Merriam-Webster as expressing duty or obligation. Since the resolution concerns states, we must look at what states’ obligations are. The reason for states’ existence is to provide structure and protection to its people. The people of a state give up total freedom and equality in return for the protection of the state, in order to avoid the state of war. John Locke writes,

If man in the state of nature be so free, as has been said; if he be absolute lord of his own person and possessions, equal to the greatest, and subject to no body, why will he part with his freedom? Why will he give up this empire, and subject himself to the dominion and control of any other power? To which it is obvious to answer, that though in the state of nature he hath such a right, yet the enjoyment of it is very uncertain, and constantly exposed to the invasion of others: for all being kings as much as he, every man his equal, and the greater part no strict observers of equity and justice, the enjoyment of the property he has in this state is very unsafe, very unsecure. This makes him willing to quit a condition, which, however free, is full of fears and continual dangers: and it is not without reason, that he seeks out, and is willing to join in society with others, who are already united, or have a mind to unite, for the mutual preservation of their lives, liberties and estates, which I call by the general name, property.

Therefore, a state’s only obligation is to protect its people, and to use any means possible to do so. Otherwise, it had no reason to exist. Because a state’s obligation is to protect the lives, liberty, and property of its people, my value for this round is protection of people. War, especially global war, creates a state of fear and causes widespread destruction of life, liberty, and property. For this reason, the value criterion is preventing war. 

My first contention states that nuclear weapons deter attacks from other states. The concept of nuclear deterrence is simple: one state threatens the use of nuclear weapons to prevent attacks from other states. The destructive power of nuclear weapons and the fear of being annihilated is a strong disincentive for a state to attack another, either conventionally or with nuclear weapons. According to Kenneth Waltz in “Nuclear Myths and Political Realities,” 
“In conventional competitions, the comparative qualities of troops, weaponry, strategies, and leaders are difficult to predict. Wars start more easily because the uncertainties of their outcomes make it easier for the leaders of states to entertain illusions of victory at supportable cost. In contrast, contemplating war when the use of nuclear weapons is possible focuses one’s attention not on the probability of victory but on the possibility of annihilation. Because catastrophic outcomes of nuclear exchanges are easy to imagine, leaders of states will shrink in horror from initiating them. With nuclear weapons, stability and peace rest on easy calculations of what one country can do to another. Anyone – political leader or man in the street – can see that catastrophe lurks if events spiral out of control and nuclear warheads begin to fly. The problem of the credibility of deterrence, a big worry in a conventional world, disappears in a nuclear one.” 

The potential attacker of a nuclear state must also consider the high economic and military costs of a nuclear exchange. According to Paul K. Huth of the University of Michigan in The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 
Despite the low probability of nuclear use, the very large economic and military costs that a nuclear strike would inflict on an attacker enhance the credibility of the defender's deterrent threat.The potential costs to the attacker of misjudging the intentions of the defender and suffering the consequences of a nuclear strike are too devastating to be heavily discounted. Accordingly, decision makers will be very attentive to quite unlikely but potentially high losses. Indeed, the large costs that the defender could impose on the potential attacker will distort the potential attacker's assessment of the probability of nuclear retaliation by the defender: a bias toward inflating the likelihood of retaliation will be introduced. 


In addition, nuclear weapons can deter non-nuclear states from using chemical and biological weapons. As is the case with nuclear weapons, the fear of retaliation from a nuclear state is enough to stop one that is not from using other weapons of mass destruction. According to Robert G. Joseph and John. F. Reichart,
The primary purpose of nuclear weapons is and will remain the deterrence of the use of nuclear weapons by others. But this is not, nor has it ever been, the only rationale for these weapons. As noted, nuclear weapons were key in NATO’s planning to deter a Soviet conventional attack on Western Europe. Today, nuclear forces also contribute to the deterrence of states that possess the full spectrum of weapons of mass destruction, including biological and chemical weapons, such as Iraq in the Gulf War. Use of nuclear weapons against such states is not inconceivable, given sufficient provocation and threat. Conventional weapons may not be able to induce the shock and potential decisiveness of a nuclear weapon. A plausible hypothetical makes the point: given clear intelligence that an adversary was making immediate preparations to launch biological agents against U.S. forces or population centers from a remote, deeply buried site, would not the president be prudent to explore a nuclear option, inasmuch as immediate, complete, and certain destruction of the target would be beyond the ability of even the most advanced conventional weapons? 


This fear of retaliation has led to a peace between powerful nations. Though it has not completely eliminated war, deterrence’s positive impact is twofold: first, it prevents nuclear war, even though weapons for such have existed for sixty-five years. Second, it prevents global war between major powers. According to Jonathan Tepperman of Newsweek,
Deterrence has led to what’s known as the nuclear peace: the virtually unprecedented stretch since the end of WWII in which all the world’s major powers have avoided coming to blows. They did fight proxy wars, ranging from Korea to Vietnam to Angola to Latin America. But these never matched the furious destruction of full-on, great power war. And since the end of the Cold War, such bloodshed has declined precipitously. Meanwhile, the nuclear powers have scrupulously avoided direct combat, and there’s very good reason to think they always will. There have been some near misses, but a close look at these cases is fundamentally reassuring, because in each instance, very different leaders all came to the same, safe, conclusion.

In a world where nuclear weapons exist, and where the technology cannot be unlearned, states have an obligation to use nuclear weapons as a deterrent against outside threats. For this reason, I urge a negative ballot. 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]