[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 


AC--


The only objective conception and basis for morality is rationality. Any derivative of that rationality is only secondary to the value of rationality itself. Kant explains: <span style="font-family: Tahoma;">Immanuel Kant. Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals. 1785. </span><span style="font-style: normal;">[[http://www.earlymoderntexts.com/pdf/kantgw.pdf|www.earlymoderntexts.com/pdf/kantgw.pdf]]</span> So if there is… merely as a means.

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is immoral because it uses people as a means to an end </span>__**
Robert **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Churchill</span>__**, 1983, “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical Moral Issue,” //Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science// <span style="font-size: 11pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/1044534 </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Threatening civilian populations ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> drivers of automobiles."</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">'4</span>


Accept debatable aff interpretations
“<span style="font-size: 9pt;">And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”. Timothy M. O’Donnell<span class="MsoEndnoteReference">[[#_edn1|[i]]]</span>. Director of Debate. University of Mary Washington. </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">There are several ……its chosen starting point</span>.

Observation one is Inherency. [[#_Toc145085116]]
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Iran is building the bomb now-several sigs because of their evasiveness. </span>**

<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kallmeyer September 8th</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Kevin Kallmeyer, “Iran: 1 IAEA: 0”, September 8th 2010. Center for Strategic and International Studies. [[http://csis.org/blog/iran-1-iaea-0]].) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">First, **__Iran has failed …….__** such activities have occurred. </span>

And, even if they never do get the bomb, their nuclear reactors themselves are already destabilizing the Middle East

**__MK Dhar. August 31__**, 2010. “Eagle’s Eye: Iran’s nuclear defiance rattles Arabs.” Central Chronicle. [[http://www.centralchronicle.com/viewnews.asp?articleID=46079]] TJ

**__The fuelling of its …..__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">formed part of the notorious A. Q. Khan network transfers.</span>

THUS THE PLAN: The countries of the Middle East should sign and establish a Middle Eastern Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. //<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Countries: Turkey, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, the Gaza Strip, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, West Bank, Iran, Cyprus, and Egypt) </span>//

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention Two is harms. Advantage one is Iran. </span>

A Nuclear Iran will increases state-sponsored nuclear terrorism, ramp up regional proliferation, kill deterrence, and risk nuclear war
Orde __**Kittrie – ‘09**__ [ Professor of Law at Arizona State University and former specialist on nuclear non-proliferation for the U.S. State Department ], “New Sanctions for a New Century: Treasury’s Innovative Use of Financial Sanctions,” //30 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 789// (Spring 2009).

Iran's pursuit of nuclear …… technology with others.

And, nuclear terrorism leads to a full blown nuclear war

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Patrick **__Speice__** 20**__06__** (JD, William and Mary Law Review) "Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs" 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427. TJ </span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">The potential consequences …..**__of nuclear weapons.__** </span>


Advantage Two is Israel.

Israel has a massive incentive to attack Iran—a threatened Israel state loses legitimacy and fails to become a safe haven, undermining its very reason for existence. Their nuclear weapons symbolize their ability for national birth and power.

Jeffrey **__Goldberg__**. [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Goldberg is a national correspondent for //<span style="font-family: Tahoma;">The Atlantic</span>//. Author of the book [[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0375726705/theatlanticmonthA/ref=nosim/|//Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror//]], he has reported from the Middle East and Africa. He also writes the magazine's advice column.] “The Point of No Return.” The Atlantic Magazine</span>, **__September 2010__**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186]] TJ </span>

Patriotism in Israel …. **__price of powerlessness.__**

And, Israel will strike a nuclear Iran in the name of survival. Regardless of whether or not they succeed, the strike will change regional dynamics forever, aggravating conflict which could lead to war and economic chaos. Goldberg 2

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is also possible that ….. into a leper among nations. </span>

And, even if the Israeli strike succeeds, it guarantees that Iran will try to get the nuclear weapon, and causes the Iranian people to unite and support Ahmadinejad

Gideon **__Levy__**. **__April__** 2, **__2010__**. “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The message is clear: Israel must not attack Iran.” Harretz. [[http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/opinion/the-message-is-clear-israel-must-not-strike-iran-1.265880]] TJ </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">H</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">is message was clear …..l know from our own conduct. </span>

Terminal impact: Middle East proliferation and instability leads to escalation and nuclear war

John Steinbach. “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace.” DC Iraq Coalition, March 2002. Center for Research on Globalisation. Globalresearch.ca. [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]] TJ

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meanwhile, **__the existence …..__** on as the Sharon era dawns. </span>

Contention Three is Solvency

First, it solves for Iran and Israel—it would solve Iranian security and confidence, and incorporate discourse in Israel about weapon reduction
<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-style: normal;">Greenpeace. “Conditions for a Nuclear Free Middle East.” February 2007. www.gsinstitute.org/mpi/docs/A6F_Vienna_Datan.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the case of …… **__necessary and positive step__** </span>

The NWFZ establishment would increase confidence measures, set a cap on nuclear stocks, and eliminating weapons after normalizing relationships between Israel and its neighbors
Michael Hamel-Green. “Regional Initiatives on Nuclear- and WMD-Free Zone: Cooperative Approaches to Arms Control and Non-proliferation.” United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. 2005. TJ

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A number of suggestions for … material breach of obligations.60 </span>

And, it would strengthen relationships throughout the Middle East, easing tensions and creating peace increasing economic integration between the countries

Mr. Al-Masaad. [Qatar ambassador] United Nations General Assembly, Fifty-first session. Cifrst Committee, 17th meeting. November 1996. [[http://unispal.un.org/UNISPAL.NSF/0/D425158763F0900385256DA5007478BB]] TJ

The State of Qatar, …..mutually and effectively verifiable measures.

==Negative== 


<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#_Toc144975199]][[#_Toc144976055]][[#_Toc144976245]][[#_Toc144980524]][[#_Toc145686871]]</span>
Observation one is framework- Ought is defined as indicating a moral obligation.

Governments have a moral obligation to maximize the net benefits in a state. Woller 97 explains:

Gary <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Woller </span></span>[BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 19<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span></span>, pg. 10<span style="font-size: 10pt;">] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, virtually all ….</span>**__r public policy in a democracy__**.


<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">Observation two is the text: [] should phase out their nuclear weapons by converting them to nuclear propulsion devices under the guidelines of Project Orion.</span>


We need nuclear weapons for space exploration – it’s called project Orion. Schweitzer 09 explains the program:
Curtis <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweitzer</span></span>. 04/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://us.imdb.com/name/nm3269331/|Curtis Schweitzer]]</span> is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546]]</span>

But one group of …. makers envisioned for it.

AND Nuclear propulsion is a form of global disarmament and proliferation. Schweitzer 09:
Curtis <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweitzer</span></span>. 04/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://us.imdb.com/name/nm3269331/|Curtis Schweitzer]]</span> is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546]]</span>

**__Developing nuclear-pulse …. can be significantly mitigated.__**


<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">Observation three is competition: the counterplan is competitive via</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Net benefits: the negative will prove that the counterplan alone is preferable over any permutation of the affirmative and negative.</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. Mutually exclusive: it is literally impossible to both phase out nuclear weapons via deconstruction and eliminate them by turning them into nuclear propulsion devices. Thus all perms on the counterplan would have to be intrinsic or severance. The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the AC.</span>


<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#_Toc144980527]][[#_Toc145686874]]</span>
The _ __net benefit is Space Exploration:__

__A. Uniqueness and Link:__

__Propulsion technology is critical for deep space exploration – solve back all the status quo problems. Schweitzer 09:__
__Curtis <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweitzer</span></span>. 04/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://us.imdb.com/name/nm3269331/|Curtis Schweitzer]]</span> is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546]]</span>__

**Most modern space-born missions ….. well within reach during our lifetime**__.__

__AND Orion is an efficient tool that will revolutionize space technology and give us a chance to recreate the world’s worst weapon into its’ greatest innovation. Schweitzer 09:__
__Curtis <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweitzer</span></span>. 04/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://us.imdb.com/name/nm3269331/|Curtis Schweitzer]]</span> is a freelance composer and writer. Resurrecting Orion. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://curtisschweitzer.net/blog/?p=2546]]</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times;">**Orion promises us …..technology for a peaceful and scientific end**__.__ </span>




__B. Impact: Extinction__

__Extinction is looming and coming in fifty years:__
__Michael J. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rycroft</span></span>**,** **a**International Space University (ISU), SPACE POLICY, May 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span> – no page listed.__

__The raison d’être of this ….., taking this to be the main justification.__




<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc145686878]]</span>
__B. Impact:__

__Propulsion key to paradigm shift towards space exploration. Lenard 01:__
__Roger X. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lenard</span></span>. Societal imperatives and the need for space nuclear power and propulsion systems. Space Policy 17 (20<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span></span>) 285–289__

**Advanced propulsion** __and …..__ **in paradigm** **shifts in normal science**__.__

__AND this paradigm shift solves all__
__Isaac <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asimov</span></span>, visionary genius, 19<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">85</span></span>, http://info.rutgers.edu/Library/Reference/Etext/Impact.of.Science.On.Society.hd/3/4__

__I have a feeling ..... what I believe in too.__


<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">State's aren't moral actors NC:</span>



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">An Ought Not is a moral Prohibition</span>

__Richard Robinson “Ought and Ought Not.” Philosophy, Vol. 46, No. 177 (Jul., 1971). Cambridge University Press on behalf of Royal Institute of Philosophy <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span>__
__Ought and ought ...contraries, not contradictories.__

__(the rest is Analytic)__

__War DA__
__It is impossible to maintain verification and security in a denuclearized world—the zero error margin for security ensures that fear between states is inevitable Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/why-not-nuclear-disarmament]]</span> “The threshold of …appropriately, nearly zero” And, this fear leads to pre-emptive and transition wars Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education. <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1272/is_2696_131/ai_101497540/pg_2/?tag=content;col1]]</span> ‘The threats are …about intentions later.’ Chemical and Biological war NC A-Curbing nuclear prolif causes a shift to bioweapons. Zilinskas, 2000 [Raymond A., Former Clinical Microbiologist and Dir. – Chemical and Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program – Center for Nonproliferation Studies of Monterey Institute of International Studies, in “Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense,” Ed. Raymond A. Zilinskas, p. 1-2, Google Print] “It is an odd…cadavers into citadels” B-Nuclear Weapons are Essential in deterring WMD attacks- prevented Iraqi biological weapon use. Why We Must Sustain Nuclear Deterrence Dr. Keith B. Payne President, National Institute for Public Policy Faculty, Georgetown University School of Foreign Service National Security Studies Program A version of this article entitled, "Nuclear Deterrence Provides U.S. Irreplaceable Option" appeared in Defense News (www.defensenews.com), April 13- 19, 1998, p. 21.<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Archives/Publication%20Archive%20PDF/Op%20Ed%203_20_98.pdf]]</span> “The evidence that …and too high." C is the impact: Risk of Biological weapon use outweighs nuclear weapons use- biological weapons can not be controlled Steinbruner, Senior Fellow at Brookings Institute 1997 [John, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague upon All Houses”, Foreign Policy, Winter 1997-1998, p. 85-96, JSTOR] “Ultimately the world…its outer limit.” Implementation DA A: it’s topical for states to launch all their nukes at each other—he defends implementation B: leads to nuke war. Also, violates side constraints__
__**Theory ran**__

__Must defend implementation__
__-ground__
__-real world education__

__Must go for deontology__
__-strat skew__
__-depth__

__alt actor fiat bad__
__- ground__
__-reciprocity__


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in; text-align: center;">1AC 1/7</span>

__<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">I affirm. Dr Paul Ballas defines abuse</span>__

__Paul **Ballas**, dept of Psychiatry at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, 2006. “Drug Abuse” http://healthguide.howstuffworks.com/drug-abuse-dictionary.htm__

**Drug abuse is the use of illicit drugs, or** __the abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs.__ **The abuse of legitimate drugs** __(prescription or over-the-counter) can happen when people use the drugs__ **in a manner** __or in quantities__ **other than directed**__, or for purposes that are not legitimate. See also drug abuse first aid and drug abuse and dependence.__


__And, decriminalization changes drug abuse policy as a matter of public health-- Boldt__
__Richard C. Boldt. [assistant prof of law, U of Maryland, Yale Law School, AB Columbia College] “The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law.” //University of Pennsylvania Law Review//, vol 140, no 6. 1992. JSTOR__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">A strategy of decriminalization relies upon a recharacterization of chemical dependency as a concern of the public health system, and stresses the continuation and strengthening of regulato- ry controls governing the manufacture and distribution of addictive substances</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">. Legalization, on the other hand, grows out of libertari</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">an concepts that press toward a more generalized deregulation of the area.278</span>__


__<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Thus the aff advocacy is de-jury decriminalization </span>I value justice <span style="font-weight: normal;">because the resolution questions whether or not it is appropriate to put drug abusers in the criminal justice system, thus we must analyze what it takes to punish a crime, which is the defining feature of the criminal process. </span></span>__



__<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">The law is not good in itself—analyzing whether or not there is an obligation to follow it comes prior to defining a moral obligation as to what it is </span>__

__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Marmor( <span style="color: black;">Andrei Marmor. Professor of Law at USC. The Nature of Law. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2007. </span></span>__
__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"> <span style="color: black;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/lawphil-nature/|http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/lawphil-nature/ ]]</span>) </span>__

__<span style="font-weight: normal;">From a moral point of view, </span>__the rules of recognition, by themselves, cannot be regarded as sources of obligation to follow the law<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Whether judges, or anybody else, should or should not respect the rules of recognition of a legal system, is basically a moral issue, that can only be resolved by moral arguments (concerning the age old issue of political obligation). And this is more generally so</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">: t</span>__he existence of a social practice, in itself, does not provide anyone with an obligation to engage in the practice. The rules of recognition only define what the practice is__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, and they can say nothing on the question of whether one should or should not engage in it. But of course, once one does engage in the practice, playing the judge, as it were, there are //legal// obligations defined by the rules of the game. </span>__In other words, there is nothing special in the idea of a //legal// obligation to follow the rules of recognition. The judge in a soccer game is__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> equally </span>__obliged to follow the rules of his game__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, and the fact that the game is conventional poses no difficulty from this, let us say, ‘internal-player's’ perspective. </span>__But__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> again, the constitutive rules of soccer cannot settle for anyone the question of whether they should play soccer or not. Similarly, </span>__the rules of recognition cannot settle for the judge__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, or anyone else for that matter, </span>__whether they should play by the rules of law, or not.




__And, while harms of actions are important, ends-justified arguments about punishment and deterrence do not sufficiently warrant criminalization. Agency and active intent to harm others are necessary standards to use the criminal sanction. Luna writes__

__Erik Luna. [associate prof at University of Utah College of Law] “Overcriminalization: the politics of crime.” The American University Law Review. 2005. Lexis /TJ__
**When society designates as "crime"** __particular acts accompanied by a sufficient degree of subjective awareness or intent, it__ **makes a critical moral judgment about the** __wrongfulness of such conduct, the resulting harm caused or threatened to others, and the culpability of the **[*714**__**]** **perpetrators**__. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">n53</span> And when society punishes an individual for having committed a crime, the magnitude of__ **the sentence represents a** __concomitant__ **decision about the degree of wrongfulness**__, harmfulness__ **, and culpability, all in service of the legitimate goals of punishment -** __namely, to prevent future criminality and/or to justly punish individuals for past misconduct. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">n5 </span>__**4** **Each of the assumptions underlying the denomination of crime and the determination of punishment can be deemed necessary but insufficient criterion to invoke the full power of the criminal justice system**__.__ **Having the common cold may be potentially harmful in some sense** __- after all, who wants to catch another person's illness? -__ **but it seems ridiculous to claim that the "perpetrator" harbors the degree of responsibility** __and his "conduct" evinces the type of wrongdoing__ **necessary to justify labeling him a criminal subject to punishment.** **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">n55 </span>** **Instead, the criminal sanction should be reserved for specific behaviors and mental states that are so wrongful** **and harmful to their direct victims or the general public** **as to justify the official condemnation and denial of freedom that flow from a guilty verdict**__. In fact, these consequences for the individual distinguish criminal justice from all other areas of law__ **.** __The state authority to deprive freedom or even life itself - the most potent action any government can take against the governed - is sui generis.__

__<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Hence the standard is</span> respecting culpability for actions<span style="font-weight: normal;">. If the aff proves that drug abusers should not be treated as criminals because it would not be proportional to their actions or not responsible for their actions, then the abuse of illegal drugs ought be decriminalized. Even if users are potentially harmful there is no active intent to harm others inherent to using the drugs themselves which is a necessary condition for punishment thus you can affirm on face. </span></span>__

__<span style="font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">My thesis is that illegal drug abusers are not culpable for their crimes for multiple reasons. </span>__



__Contention 1 is addiction__

__a. The abuse of drugs is a brain disease__
__Alan I. Leshner. “Addiction is a brain disease, and it matters.” Frontiers in Neuroscience: the Science of Substance Abuse. Science, vol 278, no 5335 October 1997.__

__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Although each drug that has been studied has some idiosyncratic mechanisms of action, </span>__virtually all drugs of abuse have common effects__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, either directly or indirectly</span>__, on a single pathway deep within the brain__<span style="font-weight: normal;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">This pathway, the mesolimbic reward system, extends from the ventral tengmentum to the nucleus accubens, with projections to areas such as the limbic system and the orbitofrontal corntex. Activation of this system appears to be a common element in what keeps drug users taking drugs. This activity is not unique to any one drug; </span>__all addictive substances affect this circuit. Not only does acute drug use modify brain function in critical ways, but prolonged drug use causes pervasive changes in brain function that persist long after the individual stops taking the drugs.__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Significant effects of chronic use have been identified for many drugs at all levels: molecular, cellular, structural, and functional. </span>__The addicted brain is distinctly different__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> f</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">rom the nonaddicted brain, as manifested by changes in brain metabolic activity, receptor availability, gene expression, and responsiveness to environmental cues. Some of these long-lasting brain changes are idiosyncratic to specific drugs, whereas others are common to many different drugs. The common brain effects of addicting substances suggest common brain mechanisms underlying all addictions. </span>__That addiction is tied to changes in brain structure and function is what makes it, fundamentally, a brain disease. A metaphorical switch in the brain seems to be thrown as a result of prolonged drug use.__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Initially, drug use is a voluntary behavior, but when that switch is thrown, </span>__the individual moves into the state of addiction, characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use.

__<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">b. The abuse of drugs is rooted in genetics</span>__
__Paul R. Buckland. [dept of Psychological Medicine, Cardiff University, UK] “Will we ever find the genes for addiction?” Addiction. Horizons Review. October 2007.__

__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">For many years studies have been carried out into the genetic association of DRD2 and alcoholism. A recent meta-analysis [11] and a larger-than-average study [12] (1215 total subjects) of the association with the Taq1A1 allele both showed a significant association, albeit one with a small effect size, which may vary between popula- tions, hence the many negative results [13]. A number</span> of__ **other SNPs in the DRD2 gene region have also been studied and many positive results obtained** __(e.g. [14]). Similarly**,**__ **cocaine addiction has also been found to be associated with dopamine system genetic variants** __[15], although not the Taq1A polymorphism [16]. If there is an association between the dopaminergic system and addiction, then__ **there must be one or more functional changes in this system associated with the polymorphisms in question and this may be detectable before or following drug administration**__. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is a body of evidence that suggests that polymorphisms within and close to the DRD2 gene lower its expression or stability [17,18]. Indeed, the Taq1A polymorphism is associated strongly with a lowering of D2 receptor numbers in the human caudate nucleus [18] and lowering of D2 recep- tor availability expression in the ventral striatum [19]. </span>__**A** **lowering of D2/3 receptor availability** __has been shown to be related to increased intravenous cocaine self- administration in rhesus monkeys [20]. However, this lowering is also__ **related to impulsivity and it may be the impulsivity which causes the increase in cocaine self- administration** __<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[21]. This suggests that rather than being part of the addiction process, dopaminergic variation may be related to the initiation of drug taking due to the impact on behavioural traits, not on any intrinsic process involved in the pathophysiology of addiction. Genetic effects can, therefore, be divided into two cat- egories: those which directly affect the process which is perturbed during drug addiction and those which modify the known environmental effect, i.e. the liability to take drugs in the first place. Thus, while</span>__ **genetic factors may contribute 50% or so of the propensity to develop drug abuse** __(see below), a significant proportion of this, perhaps most of it, may be due to genetic factors__ **which predispose an individual to use a drug for the first time or for reasons not related to reinforcement or dependency**, __and thus not related to the addiction process. Genetic differences may affect liability to initiate drug taking in other ways.__ **Much work with alcohol has high- lighted the role of factors such as stress** __and stress-related__ **genes in the propensity for alcoholism to run in families__.__**


__Contention 2 social factors out of ones control motivate drug abuse__





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Social issues are a driving factor in determining drug abuse</span>


__Elizabeth C. Hirschman. “The Consciousness of Addiction: Toward a General Theory of Compulsive Consumption.” //The Journal of Consumer Research,// vol 19, no 2, 1992. Pp 155-179. The University of Chicago Press. JSTOR__

__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Personality Theories. Another significant area for addiction theorization lies in the area of personality. For example, in drug addiction, as well as in many other forms of compulsive behavior, there has been found a strong tendency for persons to exhibit anxiety, depres- sion, and low self-esteem as adolescents (Mendelson and Mello 1986). In other studies using the Minnesota Multiphase Personality Inventory (MMPI),</span>__ **persons who later became alcoholics were** __<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">found to be more non- conformist, independent, undercontrolled, and impul- sive than their peers (Mendelson and Mello 1986). These "prealcoholics" "tend to do things on the spur of the moment and are frustrated when they cannot immediately get what they want. Upon making mis- takes, they are often</span>__ **unable to change their behavior to avoid repeating the mistake**__" <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(p. 61). Mendelson and Mello (1986) further note that preal- coholics and alcoholics have trouble establishing and maintaining emotional intimacy with others and often feel alone and isolated</span><span style="color: black;">. </span>__**They note that these same traits are characteristic of persons addicted to narcotics, am- phetamines, barbiturates, and LSD, as well as of people who are heavy marijuana smokers,** **gamblers, and those with eating disorders.**


<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">Other personality scales also have shown correlations with compulsive behaviors, including drug addiction and alcoholism. Among these is the Machiavellian Scale;persons who score highly are "bold and aggressive reward seekers . . . [who] seek out and enjoy the plea- sures of life. They thrive on excitement" (Mendelson and Mello 1986). Closely related to this is the Sensation Seeking Scale (Zuckerman 1979), which measures ten- dencies to seek excitement and novel sources of stim- ulation. Persons who score highly prefer unusual, stim- ulating experiences and are easily bored with routine. High scores on the Sensation Seeking Scale are asso- ciated with heavy and multiple drug use and also with cigarette smoking, a preference for spicy foods, and so- cial drinking. Mendelson and Mello (1986) also report on</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">several studies </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">that </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">indicate that</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> alcoholics and </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">drug addicts have an external locus of control: "they are eas- ily influenced by environmental factors and do not per- ceive that they are capable of controlling their drug use</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. T</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">hese</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> feelings of helplessness spill over into all aspects of their experience, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">leav</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">ing </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">abusers feeling buffeted by events and emotions that they are powerless to change or even manage</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">" (p. 68 </span>__



__contention 3 is hedge__

__<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">There is an out-of-control Mexican drug war that is ever worsening below the border and is threatening to spill over into the U.S</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.,</span></span> yet of the $1.6 billion earmarked to fund police equipment and training that the American government pledged in 2008 to help Mexico fight the drug cartels, only 9% has been dispensed to date, according to a report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">). **<span style="background-color: aqua;">The Mexican war has only deteriorated over the past 4 years, as nearly 25,000 have now been killed since</span>**</span></span> Mexican President Felipe <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calderon deployed troops at the end of **<span style="background-color: aqua;">2006</span>** to fight the cartels in their strongholds</span></span>. Although the U.S. has not shown much return on investment in its own war on drugs, spending $1 trillion over 40 years without reducing drug trafficking, consumption or the violence that comes with it. <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">But **<span style="background-color: aqua;">the situation in Mexico</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;"> **is**</span> different, **<span style="background-color: aqua;">escalating</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;"> **to a level of warfare unimaginable**</span> by most Americans, and it needs to be stifled lest the Southwest is engulfed by the maelstrom of violence</span></span>. Mexico's war on drugs is starting to hit home - the FBI has over 75 open cases of Americans kidnapped in Mexico and the availability of methamphetamine in the U.S. is at a 5-year high, mainly because of large-scale drug production in and transit from Mexico. <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Drug cartels in Mexico control over 70% of the foreign narcotics that flow into the U.S</span>**</span>**.** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">The Merida Initiative, the name of the anti-drug program co-launched by Mexico and the U.S. over two years ago, will become more focused on fighting rampant corruption that exists in Mexico’s law enforcement community, court system and other government bodies, which is a debilitating impediment to progress in the seemingly endless struggle against Mexican gangs. The reasons for the delay are twofold: (1) State department bureaucracy and (2) the Mexican government’s lack of progress with current funds. The AP reported in May that the funds have been allocated to three different accounts with unique budget rules and there are way too many non-value-add requisition and approval procedures and requirements. The State department is just now getting around to creating a single tracking system for Merida funds. The State department also noted that funds are not considered spent until a program is completed. However, another problem is defining "completed" and monitoring the progress of current outlays, because one cannot just measure progress on “money spent.” Some of the performance metrics need to be revised as well. One metric, the number of police trained, does not measure the impact of said training. One U.S. official reported that the U.S. spent $250,000 to train a group of Mexican investigators who ended up performing so poorly that the unit was disbanded with a few months</span>.</span>__



__And money from marijuana is uniquely key to drug cartel funding --__ Beaubien 10
__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Beaubien, Jason. [Reporter for NPR, Mexico City Correspondent] //Cash From Marijuana Fuels Mexico’s Drug War.// National Public Radio Special Report. 5/19/10. AlexC </span>__

__<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">About 24,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence in Mexico since President Felipe Calderon declared war on the cartels in December 2006. But Calderon's war is not just about cocaine, heroin and other "hard" drugs. Mexican troops are also fighting gun battles to stop the trafficking of marijuana -- the weed that might be legalized later this year across the border in California. <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As Mexico's biggest agricultural export, marijuana <span style="background-color: aqua;">generates billions of dollars in revenues each year for the brutal narcotics cartels</span>. </span></span>By some estimates, <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is the most profitable product for the Mexican drug gangs. </span></span>Mexico, the world's largest exporter of marijuana, sends almost all of its crops to the U.S. <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Cannabis</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> also **<span style="background-color: aqua;">accounts</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;"> **for**</span> almost **<span style="background-color: aqua;">half the cartels' revenues</span>**</span></span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">according to an estimate from the Mexican attorney general's office. And the Mexican gangs have also established sophisticated networks to grow marijuana in national parks inside the U.S., thus avoiding the difficulty of smuggling it north across the border. In the southwestern Mexican state of Michoacan, heavily armed Mexican troops trudge across pastures, streams and wheat fields on a marijuana-eradication mission. Spotters in a Cessna flying overhead have radioed down GPS coordinates for a suspected pot patch. Even before the soldiers reach the plot, the air is thick with the pungent smell of marijuana. Many of the plants are more than 6 feet tall. Workers had been in the midst of harvesting this crop moments before the soldiers arrived. Their lunch of rice, stew and tortillas sits abandoned along with a pile of freshly picked purplish buds. Capt. Oscar Salas Cordoba orders his men to rip up the plants. The soldiers build several fires with wood from the surrounding trees and then hurl the marijuana plants into the flames. "Pull them up!" Salas barks. In order to completely destroy the plants, he says, you have to yank out the roots. The green weeds don't burn very well, and the field is soon filled with clouds of grayish-white smoke. The patch is in the foothills of the Sierra Madre. Farmers grow small plots of corn, wheat, beans and vegetables. There are also groves of peach and avocado trees. Some skinny cattle wander amid the poorly fenced fields. Salas says the soil is ideal for marijuana. "Normally, from the moment the marijuana is planted until it's harvested is about two or three months," he says. The marijuana plants are spread out in three different areas. If they had been adjacent, the plots might have covered a third of a football field. The crop would be worth about $4,000 to the local growers, Salas estimates. And, says Salas, the value of the marijuana obviously goes up the closer the product gets to its primary market: the U.S. Last year, marijuana production in Mexico increased 35 percent, according to a U.S. State Department report</span>. The report said the country had nearly 30,000 acres planted in cannabis. <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Despite an all-out war</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">by President Calderon </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">against the drug cartels</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">, **marijuana eradication efforts are down as**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the Mexican government focuses more effort on dangerous methamphetamine labs</span></span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Marijuana** __and cocaine are the two largest sources of revenue for the cartels,__ **generating billions of dollars in illicit profits each year.** __But some analysts say <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">marijuana may be the cartels' greatest source of cash in part because the Mexican gangs control the production, trafficking and distribution of the drug</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> The cocaine they move has a higher street value, but they initially have to buy it from the Colombians. At the soldiers' base in the state capital of Morelia, Brig. Gen. Raul Guereca Valenzuela says his troops spend much of their time destroying pot plants. But, he adds, "Marijuana cultivation isn't the problem, organized crime is the problem." The narcotics traffickers intimidate and threaten the population, he says. They bribe politicians. A few months ago, they gunned down a local mayor. In April, they ambushed the state security chief's convoy and sprayed the vehicles with more than 2,000 rounds of ammunition. The security chief miraculously survived, but four other people were killed in the attack. Eduardo Guerrero, a security analyst in Mexico City, <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">says the marijuana trade is incredibly violent</span>**</span>. In Mexico, the <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">cartels</span>** </span>don't traffic in a single product; instead, they <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">control territories and specific smuggling routes into the U.S</span>**</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;">." </span>**__



__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">1. The drug war in Mexico leads to a failed state and causes total U.S. withdrawal from the international system</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Westhawk 08</span>** __private investor. Formerly, the global research director and portfolio manager for a large, private, U.S.-based investment firm. Former U.S. Marine Corps officer: infantry company commander, artillery battalion staff officer December 21, 2008, "Now that would change everything," [[http://westhawk.blogspot.com/2008/12/now-that-would-change-everything.html]])__

__The <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">Mexican</span></span> possibility may seem less likely, but the government, its <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">politicians, police, and judicial infrastructure are all under sustained assault</span></span> and pressure by criminal gangs and drug cartels. How that internal conflict turns out over the next several years will have a major impact on the stability of the Mexican state<span style="background-color: aqua;">. </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">Any descent by the Mexico into chaos would demand an American response based on the se<span style="border: medium none;">rious implications for homeland security</span></span></span> alone. Yes, the “<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">rapid collapse” of Mexico would change everything with respect to the global security environment</span></span>. <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">Such a collapse would have enormous humanitarian, constitutional, economic, cultural, and securit<span style="border: medium none;">y implications for the U.S.</span></span></span> It would seem <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">the U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> federal government</span></span>, indeed American society at large<span style="background-color: aqua;">, </span><span class="box"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">would have little ability to focus serious attention on much else in the world</span></span>. The hypothetical collapse of Pakistan is a scenario that has already been well discussed. In the worst case, the <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">U.S. would be able to isolate itself from most effects emanating from south Asia</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">. However, there would be no running from a Mexican collapse. </span></span>__


__2. Multiple scenarios for nuke war__

**<span style="color: black;">THAYER</span>** __(Professor of Strategic Studies @ Missouri State)__ **<span style="color: black;">‘07</span>**
__<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">[Bradley, <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">American Empire: A Debate</span></span> , P. 108 //wyo-tjc]//</span>__

__//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The fourth critical fact to consider is that </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">the security provided by the power of the United States creates stability in international politics</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. That is vitally important for the world, but easily forgotten. Harvard professor Joseph </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Nye </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">often </span>//__//**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9pt;">co</span>**__<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">mpares</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> the security provided by the United States </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">to oxygen</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">If it were taken away, a person would think of nothing else</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. If the security and sta- bility provided by the United States were taken away<span style="background-color: aqua;">, </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">most countries would</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> be much worse off, and </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">arms races, vicious security competition, and wars would result. It would be a world without NATO or other key</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> U.S. </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">alliances</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">. We can imagine</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> easily </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">conflict between</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> traditional rivals like </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Greece<span style="border: medium none;"> and Turkey, Syria and Israel, </span></span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">India and Pakistan, Taiwan and China</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Russia and Georgia, Hungary and Romania, Armenia and Azerbaijan, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">and an intense arms race between China and Japan</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In that world, the breakup of Yugoslavia would have been a far bloodier affair that might have escalated to become another European war. In contrast to what might occur absent U.S. power, we see that the post-Cold War world dominated by the United States is an era of peace and stability. </span>__//

//__3. The time-frame is nearly instantaneous__//

//**<span style="color: black;">BRZEZINSKI</span>** __(Former Sect. Of State)__ **<span style="color: black;">‘04</span>**//
//__<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">[Zbigniew, </span>__The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership__, Perseus, New York// wyo-tjc]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In reflecting on the security implications of this new reality, **it** is important to bear in mind the points made earlier. America is the world-transforming society, even revolutionary in its subversive impact in sovereignty-based international politics. At the same time, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">America</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> is a traditional power</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, unilaterally protective of its own security while </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">sustaining internation<span style="border: medium none;">al stability not only for its own benefit, but for that of the international community as a whole.</span></span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> The latter task compels U.S. policymakers to concentrate on the more traditional </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">U.S. role as the linchpin of global stability.</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> Despite the</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> new realities of global interdependence and the </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">mounting preoccupation of the international community with such new global issues</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> as ecology, global warming, AIDS, and poverty, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the argument that </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">American power is uniquely central to world peace</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> is supported by a simple hyp<span style="border: medium none;">othetical test: </span></span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">What would happen if the U.S. Congress were to mandate the prompt retraction of U.S. military power from its three crucial foreign deployments</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Europe, the Far East, and the Persian Gulf? </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">Any such U.S. withdrawal would without doubt plunge t<span style="border: medium none;">he world </span></span></span><span class="box"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">almost immediately</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;"> into a politically chaotic crisis, In Europe</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, there would be a pell mell </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">rush by some to rearm but also to reach a special arrangement with Russia.</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In the Far East, war would probably break out on the Korean Peninsula while </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt;">Japa<span style="border: medium none;">n would undertake a rash program of rearmament, including nuclear weapons.</span></span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> In the Persian Gulf area, Iran would become dominant and would intimidate adjoining Arab states</span></span>. [P. 17]



==Negative== 
**The value is justice implicit in the resolution defined by Aristotle as giving each their due.**

**Punishment restores the balance of justice after one has gained undue advantage by breaking the law or harming others.**

Mar 6, 2009 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.suite101.com/profile.cfm/gcuizon|Gwendolyn **Cuizon**]]</span> [freelance writer and a published book author.] at Suite101: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzg1yfn|What is Just Desert: Justifications for Retributive Justice]] [[http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzg1yfn|http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzg1yfn]]</span>Read more at Suite101: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzTcT1e|What is Just Desert: Justifications for Retributive Justice]] [[http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzTcT1e|http://www.suite101.com/content/what-is-just-desert-a100622#ixzz15dzTcT1e]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; line-height: 17pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;">Immanuel **Kant likens just desert to a debt**. **__Citizens__** of a certain community **__enjoy the advantages gained from the rules imposed. The principle of fair play states that citizens must do their part to preserve the law. A person who wants the benefits of law without following it and exercising self-control is called a free rider. He gained benefits through unfair advantages and it is the role of the government to impose the rule of law. Just desert__** applies to past actions. It **__justifies <span style="color: #335352;">[[http://peacesecurity.suite101.com/article.cfm/that_dangers_of_just_desert|punishment ]]</span>for any wrongful act or injustice committed. The main idea is that the wrongdoer has done something that gave him undue advantage over the victim, thus__** just desert or the **__punishment for such wrongdoing restores the balance of justice__**. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Thus the criterion is – retributive punishment. </span>**

Contention one:

Criminals victimize the community and gain unfair advantages by breaking the law
Steven P. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garvey</span></span> [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">We tend by default to think of the “victim” of a crime as the identifiable person, assuming one exists, who directly suffers the moral and material injury of the crime. **__But insofar as those who form the relevant community of which the victim is a member //identify// with the victim and with one another,__** and thus constitute a community in an appropriately deep sense, **__those community members can also be understood as victims. Similarly, when the crime involves no identifiable victim, but consists, for example, in conduct that risks causing harm to another, the offender shows contempt, not so much for anyone in particular, but for the law itself, which forbids such conduct. While the rest of us play by the rules, the offender behaves as if he is above them, free to do as he wishes.__**</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6.5pt;">16</span>__**


=January-February= 
==Affirmative-== 
===Stock AC-=== 
<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">Levitt 1997: Steven Levitt – 1997 [Professor at the University of Chicago since 1994], Juvenile Crime And Punishment, National Bureau of Economic Research, 1997. GW.</span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">The Recidivism of Violent Youths in Juvenile and Adult Court : A Consideration of Selection Bias. David L. Myers. Youth Violence and Juvenile Justice 2003. (<span style="color: #333333;">Ph.D. Criminology and Criminal Justice, University of Maryland, Professor at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Editor of Criminal Justice Policy Review.) JH. </span></span>

VIOLENT JUVENILE OFFENDERS: RETHINKING FEDERAL INTERVENTION IN JUVENILE JUSTICE, Joseph Yeckel, JOURNAL OF URBAN AND CONTEMPORARY LAW [Vol. 51:331]

The Court's Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases Author(s): Janet E. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ainsworth</span></span> associate Professor at Seattle University School of Law Source: The Future of Children, Vol. 6, No. 3, The Juvenile Court (Winter, 1996), pp. 64-74 Published by: Princeton University Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/1602594 .Accessed: 30/12/2010 00:08

==Negative== 
===Stock NC=== 
**Richard Redding** – '08 [**professor of law at Chapman University** School
of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: **An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?,** Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.

Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, THE REGRESSIVE MOVEMENT: WHEN JUVENILE OFFENDERS ARE TREATED AS ADULTS, NOBODY WINS 14:125, p. 140]

===Theory=== 
Must defend moving all juveniles to the current adult or juvenile system.
Must defend punishment
Must only defend violent juveniles (extra-topicality).

=== === 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]