==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative-Nukes**</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: #2de13d;">Heideg</span><span style="color: #00ff17;">ger AC</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">O1 - Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 1. The negative can specify the actor to any country/countries who currently possess nukes</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 2. I defend disarmament</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 3. Truth-Testing</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> O2 - The problem - The Technological Rise</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The rise in technology has brought the empty nothingness of man.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "According to Heidegger...himself in empty nothingness."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Arthur Herman, Professor of History, George Mason, THE IDEA OF DECLINE IN WESTERN HISTORY, 1997, p.337.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Nukes are the epitome of this rise in technological thought.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Martin Heidegger suggests... is wholly modern."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Dan Scoggin, 2002, “Heidegger, Technology and Television Reflections on Reception,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.datawranglers.com/negations/issues/02s/|http://www. datawranglers.com/negations/ issues/02s/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Science's knowledge, which...annihilation of the thing. ..."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Richard E. Palmer. “The Postmodernity of Heidegger” boundary 2, Vol. 4, No. 2, Martin Heidegger and Literature (Winter, 1976), pp. 411- 432.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/302143]]</span>. Jstor.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> O3- Impact - Damnation</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> This complete obsession with technology leads to an inhuman life and a violent ontology.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Heidegger seems to be saying...the saving remedy."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> George Kateb, political theorist, Princeton, THE INNER OCEAN, 1992, p. 145-6.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A completely technological society turns humans into a “standing reserve,” a resource which can be used, abused, and misused to no end.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Under the sway of metaphysics ...embrace of global technology."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 1992 (Jerry Weinberger, Professor of Political Science at Michigan State University, “Politics and the Problem of Technology: An Essay on Heidegger and the Tradition of Political Philosophy”, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 86, No. 1 (Mar. 1992), pp. 112-127, JSTOR)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> We have let ourselves destroy indigenous peoples in the past through testing and harm people through the process of creating nukes. This empirically proves the link that human beings become the standing reserve for nukes.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"And yet how can one ...World and Indigenous Nations."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Masahide Kato—1993. [Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii]. Alternatives. 339.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> This eclipse of being creates damnation, which is the worst possible impact.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Heidegger asserted that...never “disclosed” by humanity"</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Zimmerman, Michael. Contesting the Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, 119-120</span>




<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> O4- Solvency- The Clearing</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> This examination of technology and rejection reveals its true essence to humans; Disarming opens the clearing to take true action outside of technological enframing.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The human presence is crucial... between clearing and concealing."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Beckman 2000 - Emeritus Professor of Philosophy Humanities and Social Sciences Harvey Mudd College - (Tad, “Martin Heidegger and Environmental Ethics.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> This clearing will help us develop a proper relation with technology. Right now it dominates us, nukes threaten us everyday with mass death.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "All the things that modem science....very own Being."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joseph Kockelmans, Penn State philosopher, HEIDEGGER AND SCIENCE, 1985, p.254.</span>


<span style="color: #810e0e; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CounterStrike AC</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Observation I: Iran and North Korea are working closely together to build nuclear weapons programs</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Iran and North Korea have or are very close to having nuclear weapons programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Iran is poised...1,000 tons of TNT."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Bill Gertz, Washington Times, March 31, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> B. North Korea and Iran Share Nuclear Weapons Technology</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "But neither the US-Russia agreement... a bastion of pro-North Korean feeling."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Yuriko Koike, Gulf News, April 16, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> C. Iran’s money and North Korea’s technology make them natural partners for proliferation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> “Iran has money and oil...obvious,” said Gard."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Kang Hyun-kyung, Korea Times, 8/9/2010</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The aff proposes the following plan:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The United States should adopt the nuclear policy guidelines outlined by President Obama in the Nuclear Posture Review from April 2010. This includes the belief that countries, specifically North Korea and Iran, will not be protected against first strikes by the United States if they fail to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> From NPR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The United States...increasing international pressure."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Only impacts to the United States Matter</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 1. States have unique obligation to their own citizens</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 2. All states ought always act in their best interest.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> " Sates seek to survive ... relative power position. "</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Back to the Future: Instability in Europe after the Cold War. International Security, Vol. 15, No. 1 (Summer 1990), p. 5-56.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Observation II: Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> a. US is capable of destroying 10,000 Iranian Missile sites in hours.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Stepping up its preparations... on Iran, stressed. "</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The Times of India March 18, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> b. The U.S. is capable of an effective pre-emptive strike on North Korea’s missiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Therefore, if North Korea persists...the missile gantry."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Ashton B. Carter and William J. Perry [Ashton B. Carter was assistant secretary of defense under President Bill Clinton and William J. Perry was secretary of defense. The writers, who conducted the North Korea policy review while in government, are now professors at Harvard and Stanford, respectively.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Thursday, June 22, 2006 . “North Korea Cannot Be Allowed to Test This Missile”[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/06/21/AR2006062101518.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Advantage I: Israeli Strike</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A. Isreal will strike if the U.S. does not.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Goldberg. September ’10. “The Point of No Return. ” [Jeffrey Goldberg is a national correspondent for The Atlantic. Author of the book [[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0375726705/theatlanticmonthA/ref=nosim/|Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror]], he has reported from the Middle East and Africa. He also writes the magazine's advice column. [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186/2/]]. ]September ’10.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Netanyahu’s belief is ...of the year.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> If the Israelis... </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">official told me.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B.Israel will fail to destroy the nuclear weapons .World Tribune</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/05/front2453710.0027777776.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">December 5, 2005]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Geopolitical limitations render ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the report said.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C) If Israel attacks Iran, Iran will attack Israel and the war will inevitably escalate to nuclear war. John Bolton</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [[#_ftn1|What If Israel Strikes Iran?: ]] [[#_ftn1|The mullahs would retaliate. But things would be much worse if they had the bomb.]] [[#_ftn1| John R. Bolton. June 12, 2009. ]] [[#_ftn1|The Wall Street Journal.]] [[#_ftn1|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124467678369503997.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran launches missile attacks on Israel ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">capabilities against Israel.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war between Iran and Israel will kill millions. Yitkhak Benhorin</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [[#_ftn1|Benhorin, Yitkhak. "US Report: Israel would weather nuclear war with Iran" Israeli News (12/24/2007), ]] [[http://www.ynet.co.il/english/articles/0,7340,L-3486011,00.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D) The war won’t be as bad if U.S. strikes. A war between U.S. and Iran have a much smaller impact. Weiss ’10.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How would Iran respond to American attack?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">by [[http://mondoweiss.net/author/philweiss/|PHILIP WEISS]] on AUGUST 10, 2010 http://mondoweiss.net/2010/08/how-would-iran-respond-to-american-attack.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A top priority for the ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">start of hostilities</span>







<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The SAME exact impact would occur if Israel struck. Philips ‘10</span>





<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An Israeli Preventive Attack on Iran's Nuclear Sites: Implications for the U.S.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Published on January 15, 2010 by [[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/P/James-Phillips|James Phillips]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/01/an-israeli-preventive-attack-on-iran-nuclear-sites-implications-for-the-us]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tehran could also attack ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">has already provided. </span>













=== === 
===<span style="color: #f03d3d;">India Pakistan AC</span>=== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span>** </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "But the human...or go forward."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This question brings...to have it?"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The fact that...as an individual."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Treating people as ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In South Asia...restriction on India."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "What is morally...kind of case."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "What is also...about to do."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A) Accidental Launch is likely.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In addition to...strike from India."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "As noted earlier...to the aggressor."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even a limited...a global scale."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "in terms of...might be used."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Last week's brutal...global security concerns."</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#September-October-Negative]] Negative-Nukes**</span>== 
<span style="color: #e212d6;">Kato K(Short Version)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">A) Should hold people accountable in debate(the ballot especially allows for this)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> We don't cease to moral actors when the debate round begins</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Concerns over how we debate are prior to what we debate</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> B)The 1AC represents a pattern of nuclear discourse that characterizes nuclear violence as exclusively an interstate mater in which nuclear war is only a threat to the delocalized globe. Nuclear test explosions don’t even qualify for recognition. All that matters is the possibility of massive nuclear exchange between nations</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "Nuclear war has...a historical fact."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Masahide Kato—1993. [Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii]. Alternatives. 339.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> C) In the name of preventing the “authentic catastrophe” of nuclear apocalypse, perpetual violence against the guinea pigs of our nuclear testing is justified. As we ‘rehearse’ for the delocalized global catastrophes portrayed by the AFF, we wreak havoc on innocents. Our discursive frames are the unique cause of this destruction. How we speak about nuclear war shapes how we act about it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "And yet how can one ...</span>World and Indigenous Nations."
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Masahide Kato—1993. [Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii]. Alternatives. 339. </span>



<span style="color: #f78818;">Nuke Hoax K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Part 1: Nuclear Weapons are a Hoax</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> The Bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki are the Basis of Our Understanding of Nuclear Weapons—All Evidence Disputes the Idea that Radiation Was a Threat at all!—The Idea of Nuclear Weaponry Was Simply a Propaganda Tactic To Win the War and Ensure the Complicity of the General Population.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> “O.K. But what about the...fears of nuclear Armageddon are based."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Steven Ransom, Research Director at Credence Publications, Nuclear weapons, nuclear power. Our greatest nightmare? Or the greatest hoax ever?, (At least November 2004) (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.mindblowingdecisions.com/nukebookintro1.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> It is scientifically impossible for nuclear fission or fusion to occur, because the established conception of the atom is incorrect.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "This throws an entirely different light on the picture...not yet considered."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Dewey B. Larson, Engineer and Scientific Author, The Case Against the Nuclear Atom, 1963 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.reciprocalsystem.com/cana/index.htm]]</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> It is undeniable that thousands perished in bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but these deaths were the result of an incredibly large conventional bomb, not a “nuclear weapon”.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "A closer examination of the...nothing left at all."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Steven Ransom, Research Director at Credence Publications, Nuclear weapons, nuclear power. Our greatest nightmare? Or the greatest hoax ever?, (At least November 2004) (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.mindblowingdecisions.com/nukebookintro1.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> This has two implications</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> 1. You negate a priori because you can't create a moral rule about something that doesn't exist</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> 2. You presume negative because they don't have any impacts</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Part 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> These fears of apocalypse are a strategy to authorize violence and genocide—The nuclear myth serves to support state authority and garner public support for all forms of violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "Apocalypse, as I began by saying... be done without."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Coviello 2000 - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College [Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Part 3:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Suicide causes a million deaths each year and depression is one of the leading causes of disease.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "The World Health Organization...only compound[s] despair and loss of hope."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> (See Ransom Citation)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> The Aff only adds to this lack of hope by essentially saying it would have to fiat away nuclear weapons, implying nuclear destruction is inevitable in the real world. It is empirically proven that belief in nuclear weapons is the cause of this depression.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "Of the 400 women, 27.5% [of women]...change the results."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> 2004 Poikolainen et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd. Fear of nuclear war increases the risk of common mental disorders among young adults: a five-year follow-up study Kari Poikolainen,1,2 Terhi Aalto-Setälä,2,3 Annamari Tuulio-Henriksson,2 Mauri Marttunen,2,4 and Jouko Lönnqvist2,5,6</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Part 4:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Vote Negative to Reject the Affirmative’s Acceptance of the Myth of Nuclear Weapons—The Fear of Nuclear War is Constructed to Keep Populations in Check and in Search of Safety—The Aff Encourages Complacency and a Naïve Faith in Authority—We Must Break With This Hoax.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "Many people today live with... these imaginary hobgoblins."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> (See Ransom Citation)</span>


===<span style="color: #63de5e; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SECURITY DILEMMA NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> "Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even one nuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> "But let us...for disarmament research."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> "Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> "War accounts for..of our civilization."</span>

<span style="color: #3319eb; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sovereignty NC</span>

<span style="color: #3319eb; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">We must respect the sovereignty of the State. **Roth ‘92 writes****<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> [</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Brad R. Roth [Associate Professor of Political Science and Law, Wayne State University. J.D., Harvard Law School, 1987; LL.M., Columbia Law School, 1992; Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996.] COMMENTARY: THE ENDURING SIGNIFICANCE OF STATE SOVEREIGNTY. Florida Law Review December, 2004. 56 Fla. L. Rev. 1017]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 16px;">There is good reason...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">be democratic about.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Thus the criterion is **consistency with sovereignty**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">C1. Nukes are consistent with sovereignty.</span>


== == 
=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**November-December**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Affirmative]] Affirmative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Affirmative-NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC]] NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The risks to the population are growing rapidly. Something must be done.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov—December 2001. [Strathdee is at the Department of Epidemiology, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhsph.edu/|Bloomberg School of Public Health]]</span>, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov is a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Effectiveness of Needle Exchange Programs: A Review of the Science and Policy. AIDS Science, Vol. 1, No. 16.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "multiperson use of...epidemic takes hold."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Total HIV/AIDS deaths and mortality rates in injection drug users are high. In just 33 States, over 8 years, nearly 6,000 HIV/AIDS deaths were caused by injection drug use.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anna Grigoryan, H. Irene Durant, Tonji Durant, and Xiangming Wei—13 February 2009. [Grigoryan, H. I. Durant, and T. Durant work in the Centers for Disease Control Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. Wei works at the McKing Consulting Corporation]. Late HIV Diagnosis and Determinants of Progression to AIDS or Death after HIV Diagnosis among Injection Drug Users, 33 US States, 1996–2004. PLoS ONE, Vol. 4, No. 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "of 232,685 persons...IDU's had survived."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "From the year...of HCV acquisition."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: </span>


Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Affirmative-NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED]] NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "SEP's have been...infected with HIV."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative]] Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-SOCIAL MESSAGING NC]] SOCIAL MESSAGING NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Institutions of criminal justice play a unique role in society; they vindicate the moral authority of the community as against the individual’s assertion of moral superiority to shared moral sensibilities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminals victimize the community writ large by placing themselves above the law.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We tend by...as he wishes."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment conveys moral censure and so rejects the offender’s assertion of his own moral superiority.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 308.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "so how can...offender's wrongful action."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment vindicates the rights of the victim and communicates a moral message to society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "moreover, the censure...up requiring it."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that the public health paradigm shifts the focus away from punishment and so fails to vindicate the rights of society and the victim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> [[#November-December-Negative-START DA]] START DA </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass by the end of the year.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As President …over national security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. Obama’s capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Unfortunately, the polarizing …votes is not a given.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Without political capital, opposition can’t be solved and START will never pass.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hurlburt 10 (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Jonathan Cohn falls …they are not."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig [[#_ftn5|[5]] ] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-T: ILLEGAL]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: ILLEGAL</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Illegal means prohibited by law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Illegal.” Law Dictionary. Baron’s Educational Series, Inc. 2003. Accessed from Answers.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Against the Law..injunctions, is illegal."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION: The AFF legalizes drugs, making drugs legal rather than illegal.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on fairness.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important. </span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-THEORY: LEGALIZATION NEEDS TEXT]] THEORY: LEGALIZATION NEEDS TEXT**</span>=== 

A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: <span style="font-family: Calibri;">If the affirmative defends drug legalization, they must provide a text for their advocacy in which they specify regulatory mechanisms and methods of implementation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First is Link Ground.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The implementation of any legalization scheme is key to assess its impact upon society. Absent a specified advocacy, there is almost no way for the negative to generate offense against the 1AC.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Charles Stimson—13 September 2010. [Senior Legal Fellow in the Center for Legal & Judicial Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Fmr. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. Fmr. local, state, federal, and military prosecutor. Fmr. defense attorney and law professor]. Legalize Marijuana: Why Citizens Should Just Say No. The Heritage Foundation. Legal Memorandum #56.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Theoretical arguments in...theft and assault."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second is Stable Advocacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-T: DRUGS--PLURAL]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: DRUGS--PLURAL</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Drugs is plural</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-T: NOT CRIMINAL JUSTICE]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: NOT CRIMINAL JUSTICE</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Not criminal justice means the AFF may not treat drug abuse as a matter of criminal justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-T: EFFECTS]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: EFFECTS</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: The planks of the AFF advocacy must be topical. It may not derive topicality from its effects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Predictable Limits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **[[#November-December-Negative-THEORY: AFF SPECIFICATION NEEDS ADVOCACY]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THEORY: AFF SPECIFICATION NEEDS ADVOCACY</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: The affirmative must defend a specific policy proposal that treats the abuse of illegal substances as a matter of public health not of criminal justice. The advocacy must specify the actor, policy, regulatory mechanisms, and implementation methods and be backed by a solvency advocate with an advanced degree in a relevant scholarly field.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stable Advocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> -Without specifying its advocacy the AFF can no-link or permute any negative argument.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> -Stable advocacies are also better for the AFF.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] Michael Greenstein—No Date. [Fmr. Director of Debate at Georgetown. Current Director of Debate at Glenbrooks North High School]. What Should Debate Be About. The Rostrum. 35.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The framework for...the entire debate."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness </span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> [[#November-December-Negative-A2: NEEDLE EXCHANGE]] A2: NEEDLE EXCHANGE </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative has it backwards, needle exchange programs only increase drug use by providing the necessary tools to use drugs and sends a message that drug use is ok.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MaLina Church-2010 [Professor at Pacific Lutheran University], “Is the Needle Exchange Project Beneficial or Harmful?”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Needle Exchange...drug using population."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs simply increase the amount of dirty needles on the streets available to drug users.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MaLina Church-2010 [Professor at Pacific Lutheran University], “Is the Needle Exchange Project Beneficial or Harmful?”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...their drug habit."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recent studies aren’t accurate. According to a meta-analytical study which examined 5 leading needle exchange policy studies, the studies are subject to many limitations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Amy Norton. Rueters. “Do needle-exchange programs really work?” March 11, 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies looking at...in needle-exchange."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NEP'S don't solve HCV.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Palmateer N, Kimber J, Hickman M, Hutchinson S, Rhodes T, Goldberg D (May 2010). "Evidence for the effectiveness of sterile injecting equipment provision in preventing hepatitis C and human immunodeficiency virus transmission among injecting drug users: a review of reviews". Addiction 105 (5): 844–59.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The core reviews...evidence is insufficient (table 3)."</span>

----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy. JS. </span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,” http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html . </span>

[[#_ftnref|[3]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> **__<span style="color: black;">Hurlburt 10</span>__** (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 14pt;"> [[#_ftnref|[4]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">. MA from London School of Economics]. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html . </span> </span>

[[#_ftnref|[5]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “([[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]). </span>

[[#_ftnref|[6]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch .</span>



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Affirmative-Juvies </span>== 



<span style="border: 1pt solid black; display: block; padding: 0in;"> </span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
=== === 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> [[#January-February-Affirmative-DUE PROCESS AC]] DUE PROCESS AC </span>=== 

OBS 1:
Definition of charge:
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.
"To make an...in the indictment"

Value: Justice
VC: maintaining consistency with the law

First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.
"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."

Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?
"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."


Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)
"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".


CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.
First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."


Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.
"forty years after...in resources remain."


Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>
"By most accounts...to receive services."


Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.
The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"Perhaps the most...look as follows."

The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px; text-shadow: none;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;">JURIES AC</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;">Value: Justice</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> VC: maintaining consistency with the constitution</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 1. Legitimacy of legal system must come from political discourse, not moral philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #333333; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">"The same is true if one compares their relative scope.</span>...on moral discourse"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Must recognize procedural obligations of various actors. It is the supreme court's duty to strike down laws inconsistent with the constitution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (), 1 Cranch 137, p. 175-177.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 2. The rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy because protection of autonomy empowers legal subjects to use public autonomy in democratic process, which legitimizes the law</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "However well grounded...over its counterpart"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> The constitution thus constructs the medium of law itself. And, the supreme court is structurally responsible for upholding the obligation.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 3. Using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> THUS, THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> The U.S. Supreme Court will overturn its decision in McKeiver v. Pennsylvaniaas as it applies to those tried with violent felonies on the grounds that the 6th and 14th amendments to the U.S. Constitution guarantee the right to trial by jury for those juveniles.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> CONTENTION ONE: The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> The McKeiver decision assigned constitutional rights based on arbitrary classifications of age, and the distinctino of juvenile trials as civil while adult trials as criminal is misguided because:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> a. supreme court precedent indicates there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "since the 1980's...criminal history score"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> CONTENTION TWO: Trial by jury is required by the ‘fundamental fairness’ test for the 14th amendment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Even the majority opinion in McKeiver concedes that the appropriate standard for determining what procedures are required for juveniles by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment is “fundamental fairness.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528 (1971), p. 543.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "All the litigants..are not inflexible"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Trial by jury is the only way to protect the fundamental fairness of criminal proceedings.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 1. the ability to choose a jury checks back for bias in a way that doesn’t exist with judges.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "in addition the...a bench trial"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 2. judge trials hurt defendants chances to appeal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px; text-shadow: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "Denial of the...law on appeal"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> 3. The possibility of a jury trial improves the fairness of the charging decision and checks the power imbalance in plea negotiations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> Janet E. Ainsworth [Professor, Seattle University School of Law]. “Youth Justice in a Unified Court: Response to Critics of Juvenile Court Abolition.” 1995. Boston College Law Review. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. P. 943</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-shadow: none;"> "Nor can the...possesses as leverage."</span>


**__UTIL AC__**
O1. <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Merriam Webster’s Legal Dictionary <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"> [[#_ftn1|[1]] ] defines charges as the trial process</span></span>

----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ] <span style="font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode'; font-size: 8pt;">"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode'; font-size: 8pt;">>.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Because the resolution is questioning the juvenile justice system the V: J </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">C: Minimizing suffering</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Hare**[[#_ftn1|[1]]]’63: </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I ask the reader ... as </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a burden. </span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **Hare**[[#_ftn2|[2]]]’72: </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">2. I shall not assume...</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">**__being a reason.__**</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**Hare**[[#_ftn3|[3]]] ‘63:</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 28pt; margin-right: 31.5pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">I mention these problems, not because I think that I can at present solve them, but simply in order that the reader may not think that I am unaware of them, or of other similar ones. I am concerned, not to develop a utilitarian theory, but simply to establish a point of contact between utilita...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to maximize satisfactions. </span>__**</span>


----

[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1. JS. </span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312. JS. </span>

[[#_ftnref|[3]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>






<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-weight: normal;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">My interpretation is: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The negative must accept the 1AC’s ability to choose the decision rule on the 2011 L-D January-February Topic as long as the decision rule is structurally reciprocal, the affirmative debater put the case on the wiki at least two hours before the round, and the frameworks is based in topic literature</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) Allowing the AFF to determine the framework preserves reciprocal strategic options</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) AFF framework choice encourages substance debate. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a. **Reducing crime is essential to this minimizing suffering. SCOTT and STEINBERG [[#_ftn2|[2]] ]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.0pt;">In</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__cost-benefit evaluations...__**</span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and criminal proceedings.</span>__**</span>

b.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Criminal justice policies may reduce crime in a number of ways.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> When actors view criminal procedure as fair and legitimate, they are significantly more likely to obey the law. SEGADELLI [[#_ftn3|[3]] ] </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.0pt;">Procedural justice theory...</span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">pressure to conform</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Perceived legitimacy impacts the public at large,</span>**
<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Meares [[#_ftn6|[6]] ] in 2005:</span>**</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Fair process norms...</span>__**
<span style="display: inline !important;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">authorities </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">controlling the procedures</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus adult courts increase the perception of fairness to juveniles.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, the widespread use of shackling in half of state jurisdictions worsens perception even more. PERLMUTTER </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.0pt;">Dr. Marty Beyer...</span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of court intervention.</span>__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, since attorneys in juvenile court do not represent their clients zealously and cooperate with the judge and prosecutor, juveniles feel treated unfairly. </span>**
<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">FEDDERS [[#_ftn7|[7]] ]</span>**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As suggested by national...</span>__**
<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">predominate in juvenile court. **<span style="color: #0027f1;">120</span>**</span>

d. **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Tansfer has no effect on most offenders, but actually REDUCES recidivism among violent offenders.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Loughran [[#_ftn1|[1]] ]: </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">First,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__across the entire...__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">emphasized by others (Bishop, 2000; Zimring, 1998).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Other studies generalize transfer effects and fail to measure recidivism by violent juveniles. [[#_ftn2|[2]] ] This means that while transfer may increase recidivism for some types of offenders, that isn’t true for all. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Loughran 2 in 2010: </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prior research has paid....</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Pogarsky & Piquero, 2003).</span>

----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Thomas A. Loughran, et al. “Differential Effects of Adult Court Transfer on Juvenile Offender Recidivism,” //Law and Human Behavior//, Vol. 34, No. 6 (March, 2010)</span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Thomas A. Loughran, et al. “Differential Effects of Adult Court Transfer on Juvenile Offender Recidivism,” //Law and Human Behavior//, Vol. 34, No. 6 (March, 2010)</span>



----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810 . </span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]] ] <span style="font-family: Times;">“Social Welfare and Fairness in Juvenile Crime Regulation” Louisiana Law Review 71 La. L. Rev. 35 (Fall, 2010) </span>

[[#_ftnref|[3]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">ACCESS TO JUSTICE: Minding the Gap: Extending Adult Jury Trial Rights to Adolescents While Maintaining a Childhood Commitment to Rehabilitation, 2010 Seattle Journal for Social Justice </span>


[[#_ftnref|[4]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Anna L. BENVENUE TURNING TROUBLED TEENS INTO CAREER CRIMINALS: CAN CALIFORNIA REFORM THE SYSTEM TO REHABILITATE ITS YOUTH OFFENDERS?, Golden Gate University Law Review, Fall, 2007 </span>


[[#_ftnref|[5]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Barry Feld, “<span style="color: black;">Criminalizing the American Juvenile Court” Crime and Justice, Vol. 17 (1993), pp. 197-280</span></span>

[[#_ftnref|[6]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.0pt;"> Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005) </span>

[[#_ftnref|[7]] ] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Barbara FEDDERS, LOSING HOLD OF THE GUIDING HAND: INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL IN JUVENILE DELINQUENCY REPRESENTATION, Lewis & Clark Law Review, 2010; Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Law. </span>


Version 2 of Util AC

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I affirm. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">V: Legitimate government obligations </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc163058382]][[#_Toc163308766]] </span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **Hare**[[#_ftn1|[1]]]’63: </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I ask the reader …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">an emancipation but</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> as </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a burden. </span>__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hare</span>**[[#_ftn2|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">’72: </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">2. I shall not assume…</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> for its not being a reason. </span>__**</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hare</span>**[[#_ftn3|[3]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘63: </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 28.0pt; margin-right: 31.5pt; margin-top: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">I mention these problems, …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">is to maximize satisfactions. </span>__**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, My interpretation is: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The negative must accept the 1AC’s ability to choose the decision rule on the 2011 L-D January-February Topic as long as the decision rule is structurally reciprocal and the frameworks is based in topic literature. The reasons to prefer are, </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; text-indent: -0.25in;">A) Reciprocal Strategic Options </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; text-indent: -0.25in;">B) Substantive Debate </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A. **Reducing crime is essential to this minimizing suffering. SCOTT and STEINBERG[[#_ftn4|[4]]] in 2010:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">cost-benefit … criminal proceedings.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">b. Previous recidivism studies generalize transfer effects and fail to measure recidivism by violent juveniles.[[#_ftn5|[5]]] This means that while transfer may increase recidivism for some types of offenders, that isn’t true for all. **Loughran ‘10:** </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prior research has .. compared to more seasoned ones</span>__** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(e.g., Loughran, Piquero, Fagan, & Mulvey, in press; Pogarsky & Piquero, 2003). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In fact, transfer has no effect on most offenders, but actually REDUCES recidivism among violent offenders. My study is the only one that is able to control for these covariates. Loughran 2[[#_ftn6|[6]]]: </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">First,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__across the …__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">of which has been emphasized by others (Bishop, 2000; Zimring, 1998). </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">c. **Ells[[#_ftn7|[7]]] in 2005:** </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Psychopaths</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">, as defined by …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> treatment or rehabilitation.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ells[[#_ftn8|[8]]] in 2005:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">Such</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__scientific …__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">the “silver bullet.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ells 3: </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">Because the legitimacy …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">adulthood.</span>__**


----

<span style="display: block;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1. JS. </span>

[[#_ftnref|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312. JS. </span>

[[#_ftnref|[3]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>

[[#_ftnref|[4]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> “Social Welfare and Fairness in Juvenile Crime Regulation” Louisiana Law Review 71 La. L. Rev. 35 (Fall, 2010) </span>

[[#_ftnref|[5]]] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Thomas A. Loughran, et al. “Differential Effects of Adult Court Transfer on Juvenile Offender Recidivism,” //Law and Human Behavior//, Vol. 34, No. 6 (March, 2010)</span>

[[#_ftnref|[6]]] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Thomas A. Loughran, et al. “Differential Effects of Adult Court Transfer on Juvenile Offender Recidivism,” //Law and Human Behavior//, Vol. 34, No. 6 (March, 2010)</span>

[[#_ftnref|[7]]] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Lisa Ells, “Juvenile Psychopathy: The Hollow Promise of Prediction,” Coumbia Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 1 (2005)—JD Candidate 2005, Noted Editor, Columbia Law Review </span>


[[#_ftnref|[8]]] <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Lisa Ells, “Juvenile Psychopathy: The Hollow Promise of Prediction,” Coumbia Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 1 (2005)—JD Candidate 2005, Noted Editor, Columbia Law Review </span>

</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">REHAB AC</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only by attempting to rectify inequalities and political conditions that contribute to societal ills, can the government uphold justice. The freedom of agents is only relevant if the state acts to fairly guarantee and respect that freedom.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Judith Shklar—1984. [Political Theorist and John Cowles Professor of Government at Harvard University]. The Liberalism of Fear. Ordinary Vices. Harvard University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nevertheless, there is...one at that."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Retributive philosophy masks the social, economic, and political underpinnings of crime. Holding individuals exclusively accountable and blameworthy for their offenses prevents adequate reparation of the injustices that fuel criminal behavior.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeffrey Reiman. “A Radical Perspective on Crime.” Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This is the...criminality or injustice."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instead, government should take responsibility for the social conditions that it has allowed and the role it has played in creating those conditions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barbra Hudson—2003. [Professor of Law, Director of Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice at Lancashire Law School, University of Central Lancashire]. Understanding justice: an introduction to ideas, perspectives, and controversies in modern penal theory. McGraw Hill International.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Cullen and Gilbert...a specific case."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Redressing Social Disempowerment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> THUS, THE ADVOCACY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In the United States, all adults along with juveniles charged with violent felonies should be tried and treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitative treatment in the form of cognitive behavioral and multisystemic therapies. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rehabilitation in the form of cognitive behavioral programs involve several strategies to address criminal behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The most common...therapist-patient relationship."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention One: Rehabilitation with CBT and MST is the only model of treatment that can accurately account for and respect both the decisions of offenders and the societal foundations of crime.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the criminal justice system does not engage in sufficient rehabilitation. It is punitive for both juveniles and adults.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "b. State Juvenile Courts...and adversarial proceeding."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, Denial of rehabilitation disregards the worth of criminals and leaves criminals worse off than when they entered prison. Only rehabilitation can reintegrate offenders into society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Edgardo Rotman—1986. [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires]. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 77, No. 4, pp. 1023-1068.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The humanistic model...socially-deprived offender."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention Two: CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even if interventions...the interventions "doubles."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These results have been consistently replicated for juvenile offenders as well.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mark W. Lipsey—2009. [Peabody Research Institute, Vanderbilt University]. The Primary Factors that Characterize Effective Interventions with Juvenile Offenders: A Meta-Analytic Overview. Victims and Offenders. Vol. 4, pp. 124-147.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The apparent effectiveness...effects on recidivism."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "there are, however...interventions they initiate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year. Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade.</span>

Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427. JS.




The direct harm of recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.


"The effects of...cannot be understood."



Moreover, the paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve.
Jeff Ferrell—1998. [Department of Criminal Justice, Northern Arizona University]. Against the Law: Anarchist Criminology. Social Anarchism, No. 25.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"As the interactionist/labeling...falsely, to solve."</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-size: 25px;">Negative</span>**</span>== 



[[#_Toc154172030]] CP 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">A) </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">IA)THE TEXT: </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The USFG will implement due process protections in juvenile courts consistent with those applied in the state of Kansas. </span></span>

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">B) </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">IB) THE COMPETITION: </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> The Kansas juvenile system operates separately from the adult judicial system in Kansas. The system of prisoner intake is different, the system of punishment is different, and the appointment of a court advocate is different. </span></span>

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">C) </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">IC) THE SOLVENCY:</span>** </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; margin-left: 0.25in;">The Kansas System guarantees all of the due process rights lacking in other systems. Treaster ‘09 [[#_ftn1|[1]] ] </span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">D) </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">If the referral worker cho... from criminal court.95 </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; margin-left: 0.5in;">This means that the affirmative has no unique offense, since separate adult and juvenile criminal justice processes can offer equal due process protections. </span>


----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ] **<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Andrew Treaster-2009 [University of Kansas School of Law], “</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Juveniles in Kansas Have a Constitutional Right to a Jury Trial. Now What? Making Sense of //In re L.M.//</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">,” 1297, April 2009.</span>**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">A) FRAMEWORK </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">Moral decisions we make even within debate rounds matter.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">B) LINKS</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hutchinson 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">explains how the 1AC’s logic replicates oppression: </span></span>


<span style="border: 1pt solid black; display: block; margin: 0px; padding: 0in; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">My analysis expands the...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">model of racial justice.</span>__**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">C) IMPACT </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">Without clear analysis of the singular forms of oppression individuals experience, there is no way to effectively pursue emancipation. This is because concrete forms of oppression are masked by generic claims of discrimination. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hutchinson 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">continues: </span></span>


<span style="border: 1pt solid black; display: block; margin: 0px; padding: 0in; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Though accurate to some ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">oppressed social groups.</span>__**</span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">D) ALTERNATIVE </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;">Vote negative to reject the affirmative debater’s use of a single-axis approach to discrimination. First, vote on the pre-fiat impact of cloaking and perpetuating marginalizing discourses in society. There can be no denying that this discrimination is important because my opponent HIM/HER self argued a framework that established discrimination as a practice that must be avoided. Second, vote negative to hold my opponent accountable for the morality of the arguments she advocates in round. Third, you can vote on the kritik post-fiat because the impacts of the kritik function as a supercharged link turn to the 1AC. My critique is a vital first step to reversing essentialism in academic discourse and political practice. **Hutchinson 3 explains:**</span>


<span style="border: 1pt solid black; display: block; margin: 0px; padding: 0in; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A fiery dissent rages ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> take into account.</span></span>
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Recidivism NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> [1] R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "I shall not...being a reason."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Only preference satisfaction is universal and prescriptive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford].Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> I contend that punishing juveniles in the adult court system increases recidivism.</span>


Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.
"Studies have found...the short run."
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School

"experts have identified...and community reintegration.

Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"Findings from several...tried as adults."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
"The effects of...cannot be understood."

CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison
Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"

CLS KRITIK

<span style="font-family: Calibri,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 19px; line-height: 27px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">These claims of systemic objectivity prevent criticism of traditional legal discourse. </span>**</span>

**Gordon**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> ’97</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">"Now a central ...<span style="font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;">and rational choices."</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">It may be possible for an idea to be static but words are always open to interpretation by the representation of that codified law. **Peller**</span>[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> ’85</span>****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">"In law, before...<span style="font-weight: 800;">part, performs politically."</span></span>__** __<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hutchinson</span>**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**__</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘84 concurs </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that there is no rhyme or reason to court adjudication</span>**;__


__<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"Traditional jurisprudence seeks...<span style="font-size: 8px;">disequilibrium of doctrine.'"</span></span>**</span>__



<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">__**. In combination with the fact that people internalize this message of neutrality and thus suppress criticism, the courts use their power to cyclically reinforce the myth that allows them to deal in the suppression of the weak and powerless.**__</span>
__Hutchinson**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes; Liberalism and contemporary...<span style="font-size: 16px;">world of rights.</span></span>__


__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the perpetuated vision of an objective court requires the institution to suppress dissent. </span>**__
__Henderson**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘91 writes;</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The lack of...<span style="font-size: 16px;">alternative legal meanings.</span></span> **<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin-bottom: 0in;">In doing so, open up space for persistent criticism of traditional legal discourse that is the only hope of finding the alternative. </span>**Singer**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes; Legal scholars can...<span class="CardText-Underlined">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">that question ourselves</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>__


**Constitution NC**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">I negate. Because the resolution questions policies regarding the criminal justice system, I value **Justice.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The standard is **maintaining consistency with the constitution** for two reasons. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the legitimacy of the legal system must draw on political discourse rather than moral philosophy. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Habermas</span>** [[#_ftn1|[1]] ]
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #333333; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;">"The same is true if one compares their relative scope</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">just on moral discourse.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy, because the protection of private autonomy constucts legal subjects empowered to use their public autonomy </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Habermas</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">However well-grounded </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">over its counterpart.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Third</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Article IV Sec. 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> of **The U.S. Constitution**: </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__Senators__** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ... </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> office or public trust under the United States. </span></span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Also, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> **The Congressional and Senatorial Oath of Office**</span>[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">: </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> do </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">solemnly</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">swear</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> ..</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">enter</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">: So help me God. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Promises generate special moral obligations that operate on a prior level to all other rights and duties. **Hart**</span>[[#_ftn2|**[2]**]] <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">’55: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The most obvious cases of special rights... chooses to release the promisor no </span>

----

[[#_ftnref|[1]]]

[[#_ftnref|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> H.L.A. Hart—April 1955. “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2, pp. 175-191. Duke University Press.</span>




C1. <span style="font-family: Calibri;"> The 1AC’S transfer of juveniles to the adult courts violates the Constitution by allowed for waivers. **Jennifer Park in in 2008 [[#_ftn1|[1]] ]:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.0pt;"> Although every ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">required in Roper</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>**<span style="color: #0027f1; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.0pt;">119</span>**

----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Balancing Rehabilitation and Punishment: A Legislative Solution for Unconstitutional Juvenile Waiver Policies, 2008 The George Washington Law Review </span>


----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257. AT. </span>









----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ] <span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">Joseph William</span>
**<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Singer</span>__, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University,__ <span style="font-variant: small-caps;">1984 </span> __<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” Yale Law Journal (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis] </span>__**





----

[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Lynne – prof law Indiana – 66 Ind. L.J. 379] </span>


----

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">[[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> CRITICAL LEGAL STUDIES SYMPOSIUM: Law, Politics, and the Critical Legal Scholars: The Unfolding Drama of American Legal Thought, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 199, Stanford Law Review</span></span>




----

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Allan and Patrick Monahan, The ‘rights’ stuff: Roberto Unger and Beyond, Texas Law Review, May 1984, page 1503]</span></span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;"> </span>
----

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Gary, assi. prof law UVA – 73 Calif. L. Rev. 1151]</span></span>


----

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]] ]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [R.W., Professor of Law, Stanford University Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches to Law, 15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195, pg. L/N]</span></span>

[[#_Toc162063271]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">A) </span>****<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">IS THE FRAMEWORK </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">Neuroscience has proliferated a discourse of persons that transforms us into uncritical audiences. **Mark[[#_ftn1|[1]]] ’10:** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Although I will … has been persuasively demonstrated. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">Debate about our language //must// precede all else if we are to resist violence. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">The standard is to **reject dehumanization**. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Butler</span>**[[#_ftn2|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’03 explains how enframing people as outside the moral order allows for infinite violence to be done against them. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported …itself effects violence through </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-right: 0.5in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-right: 0.5in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-right: 0.5in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">B) IS THE LINKS </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Viewing criminality as a dysfunction of the brain creates an “Other.” </span>**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">Pustilnik ‘09[[#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 6pt;">Viewing criminality … (however subconsciously) as Other. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">C) IS THE IMPACT </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: -0.5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Neuroscience in law conditions us to fear the ‘other.’ </span>**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">Pustilnik ‘09[[#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .5in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 6.0pt; tab-stops: -9.0pt; text-indent: -.5in;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> [*234]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Because</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__much violence …even in light of contrary information__**. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.0pt;">n266</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;">D) IS THE ALTERNATIVE </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus</span>**<span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri;"> Klein concludes[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ‘10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">There is another, … neurotechnology’s golden road. </span></span>


----

[[#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="color: #131413; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Mark, Jonathon. “A Neuroskeptic’s guide to neuroethics and national security” //AJOB Neuroscience// (2010) 1:2, 4-12 </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23 </span></span>

<span style="margin-right: 60.0pt;">[[#_ftnref|[3]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Amanda C. Pustilnik –</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> 2009 [</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Climenko Fellow & Lecturer on Law, Harvard Law School.] </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">VIOLENCE ON THE BRAIN: A CRITIQUE OF NEUROSCIENCE IN CRIMINAL LAW.</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Wake Forest L. Rev. 183. </span></span>


<span style="margin-right: 60.0pt;">[[#_ftnref|[4]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Amanda C. Pustilnik –</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> 2009 [</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Climenko Fellow & Lecturer on Law, Harvard Law School.] </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">VIOLENCE ON THE BRAIN: A CRITIQUE OF NEUROSCIENCE IN CRIMINAL LAW.</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Wake Forest L. Rev. 183. </span></span>


[[#_ftnref|[5]]] <span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Klein, Eran. “Is there a need for clinical neuroskepticism?” //Neuroethics// (forthcoming), online.</span>


Charged T

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) </span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE INTERPRETATION: </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> “Charged” is the time before and during trial. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Merriam Webster’s Legal Dictionary</span>**<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> defines charge as**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">:</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .5in; margin-right: .5in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">a :</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to make an … in the indictment> </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) </span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE VIOLATION:</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) </span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE STANDARDS:</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">First is Grammar.</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">  </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second is Field Context.</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Dictionary.com</span>**’s **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Hot Word<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn2|[2]]]</span></span>** </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 15.0pt; margin-left: 1.0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Today, former </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/Oakland?__utma=1.1259844463.1292568538.1292568538.1292568538.1&__utmb=1.4.10.1292568538&__utmc=1&__utmx=-&__utmz=1.1292568538.1.1.utmcsr=google%7Cutmccn=(organic)%7Cutmcmd=organic%7Cutmctr=once%20you%20are%20convicted%20you%20are%20not%20charged&__utmv=-&__utmk=238428032|Oakland]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, … effect while appeals occur. </span></span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) </span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE IMPACT: Fairness</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>

<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> "charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">>. </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Dictionary.com, The Hot Word—5 November 2010. [Blog published by dictionary.com, not random people. Updated daily with interesting information about the meaning of various words and phrases]. What’s the exact difference between being “charged,” “convicted,” and “sentenced” for a crime? JS.  </span>
</span></span>