[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Affirmative

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.


Contention One is Heg

We’re losing the war in Afghanistan – tactical gains are outweighed by strategic losses
Cohen 2/9 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic,” 2/9/11, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full )

Over the past two weeks, as...........So why negotiate?

Therefore, the plan is key to demonstrate Obama’s control of his own foreign policy and restore international credibility
Bacevich, 10/5 - Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University (Andrew J., “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 3/14/11)


Bourne thereby identified a central truth.......... soon thereafter seeking new employment.

Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N., president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,”
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html )


To justify adopting a more narrow...............and President Obama must necessarily diverge.


Afghanistan ties down our military and trades off with other key priorities
Cordesman 12/10 - Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff (Anthony H., , “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf, 3/13/11)

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Postur............ US support in a conventional war.


Expanding Taliban and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss
Dorronsoro 2010 - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf, 3/13/11)

The southern strategy presumed swift.....................presence of more than 100,000 U.S. troops

This is important. Readiness is key to deterrence because we aren’t invincible and can’t afford to be tied down
Grant 09 – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense and PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base (Dr. Rebecca, “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February, From NDCA wiki - Westminster AT)

However, the balance may be shifting.............jostling or more serious face-offs.

Overstretch risks miscalculation and war
Gordon 7 – chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf)

A greater worry has been the......respond adequately to other contingencies.

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)


Over the winter break I had...........power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

We’re not invincible – the plan is key to husband American power and stave off disastrous apolarity
Kaplan 12/5/10 - Center for a New American Security senior fellow, The Atlantic Correspondent (Robert, "A world with no one in charge," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120306537.html, 3/13/11)

Currency wars. Terrorist attacks. Military......................................country flinch from its international responsibilities.

Heg decline causes great power war – primacy sustains peace
Zhang and Shi, 1/22/11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)

This does not necessarily mean tha..............devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

Contention Two is Diplomacy

Afghanistan prevents a reorientation of US policy on actual crisis
Haass 12/13 - President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Director of Policy Planning in the US State Department (Richard N., “The Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan,” http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html )

Troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan..............world that this opportunity not be missed.

COIN specifically shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change
Cohen 09 - senior research fellow at the New America Foundation (Michael, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", 11/30. http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to..................policy agenda - and his presidency.

Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming
Hague 10 - Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond (William, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27)

But I particularly wanted to....................world will determine our destiny for us.

Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html)

The findings of the comprehensive report:...........................These findings were published in Science

Second is prolif and global stability—cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war
Dyer, 04 – worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]

War is deeply embedded in...........................of the existing state system.

Contention Three is Solvency

Shift to CT solves – no risk of Taliban takeover or terrorism
ASG 8/16 —The Afghanistan Study Group, an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, 8/16/10, (“What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/ )

Second, a U.S. drawdown would not............been inspired by similar motivations.

CT key to stable, long term presence – larger footprints are perceived as unsustainable and cause allies to doubt our resolve
Ward 12/15/10 (Jon, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” http://www.cnas.org/node/5437 )

December 15, 2010 — A new report on.........................long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

CT still enables intel gathering
Martin 1/26 - Senior Editor of The Progressive Realist, holds a bachelor’s degree in philosophy from New York University and a JD from Fordham University School of Law (Eric, “Counterterrorism in the State of the Union: A Tale of Two Paragraphs,” http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/01/with-a-state-of-the-union-address-tilted-heavily-toward-domestic-issues-it-comes-as-no-surprise-that-us-counterterrorism-pol.html )

Some argue that without..........effort is scaled back and abandoned."



=Negative= 

Negative

Neg differs depending on the aff plan text

Consult Nato

NATO will say yes even when they want the opposite to preserve relations with the US

Schmidt ‘07 [John R., the senior analyst for Europe in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the Department of State and former director of the NATO office at the State Department and as director for NATO affairs at the National Security Council, “Last Alliance Standing? NATO after 9/11” Washington Quarterly - PROVOCATIONS; Vol. 30, No. 1; Pg. 93. Winter, Lexis]

Although France is not without allies............................perceived EU prerogatives, or in funding the NRF.

Genuine consultation over military issues is vital to revitalize NATO effectiveness and maintain the Alliance

Korski and Williams ’08 [Daniel Korski is a Senior Fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations and Michael Williams is the Head of the Transatlantic Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies in London, “The End of NATO and the Danger of US Unilateralism,” Feb. 8, http://www.rusi.org/downloads/assets/TheEndofNATO.pdf]

Now, as the Bush administration draws .............support, the Alliance is moribund.

Collapse of NATO causes superpower nuclear war

John O'Sullivan, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-1998 [American Spectator]

Some of those ideas--notably, dissolution .............guarantor of European stability.

Security k

The affirmative is an attempt to impose reason and static identity on the violent world around them – this fearful security discourse is self-sustaining and necessarily achieved by the destruction of difference.

Grondin 2004 (David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17, MT)

Approaches that deconstruct theoretical ........conditions of existence are generated18.

This drive to rationally suppress violence through order and reason has brought us to the real possibility of extinction.

Dillon & Campbell 1992 (Michael, Lancaster and David, Newcastle, The Political Subject of Violence, p. 163-164)

This interpretation of violence as...........be at home in any other house'.10

Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecyCheeseman & Bruce 1996 (Graeme, Senior Lecturer at the University of New South Wales, and Robert, Associate Professor in social sciences at Curtin university, “Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers”, p. 5-8, MT)

This goal is pursued in ways which are ...

resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]