[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Barkley Forum== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should reduce to the point of elimination its military presence in Japan**

**Contention 1 is Colonialism**

**Subpoint A is the US Japan Alliance:**

**1) The Alliance is prioritized over the interests of Japan in the status quo. The reduction of Okinawa to the poorest and most polluted prefecture has been justified in terms of security logic that has led its colonization by the Japanese mainland and the United States.**
**<span class="cite">Mantle 6 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual //Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, Accessed 07-26-2010, p. 96-101) </span>
Gavan **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">McCormack describes ...</span>__** traditional agricultural products (McCormack, 2003: 107). 

**2) The military base in Okinawa functions as a colony to the US. In the attempts to secure our borders and establish hegemony, the US base also function as the foundation of a new wave of thinking and discourse of security that implicate all other countries worldwide**

Heriberto **<span class="cite">Cairo, 2006</span>** Department of Political Science and Administration III, Faculty of Political Science and Sociology of the Universidad Complutense Madrid/The Duty of the Benevolent Master: From Sovereignty to Suzerainty and the Biopolitics of Intervention/2006/ Pg 294-5/HS

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Military domination</span>, which ...__ __base of “international politics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”). The two first objectives are largely on the way to being achieved. </span>

**Subpoint B is the Impact:**

**1) The framing of life as merely expendable is inherent in imperial thinking.**
[[#_Toc225060611]]
**(Walter,** “The De-Colonial Option and the Meaning of Identity in Politics”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">rhetoric of ...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to a racist classification.</span>


**2) Taking human lives to be indexes of the imperial monster is uniquely dehumanizing and eradicates the value to life**
**Michael <span class="cite">Dillon</span>, <span class="cite">1999</span>** professor of politics and international relations at the University of Lancaster, April 1999, Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2, “Another Justice,” p. 164-5
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0.2in;">Quite the reverse. ... human way of being.</span>


**Subpoint C is Solvency:**

**1) Paternalistic militarism in Japan is the test bed of the American empire —the US military deploys this Asian model globally in all aspects of military and political life, perpetuating inequality in international relations.**
**Kirk 2008** Gwyn, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” March 14<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Militarism is a ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to act accordingly. </span>

**2) Bases in Japan are the lynchpin of this violence—they play a crucial role in the international perpetuation of American justifications for endless violence and subjugation**
**Kirk** 20**08** Gwyn, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” March 14 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The power dynamics ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>


**3) Be highly skeptical of their evidence—the traditional discussion of US-Japan alliance is biased in favor of those who profit from perpetual militarization while ignoring the voices of the Japanese people.**
**Terashima 2010** Jitsuro March 22, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Alliance” http://www.zcommunications.org/rethinking-the-u-s-japan-alliance-by-jitsuro-terashima

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, the foul ...</span> __to our neighbors__

**Contentionion 2 is Role of the Ballot**

**1) Epistemology comes first; it is key to discover the fallacies that perpetuate the violent sphere of international politics.**
**<span class="cite">Jensen 2004</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Casper Bruun, Postdoctoral Fellow at the School of Communication and ACTION for Health Research Project, Simon Fraser University, “A Nonhumanist Disposition: On Performativity, Practical Ontology, and Intervention”, Configurations, Volume 12, Issue 2, Project Muse] </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Epistemology is</span> generally ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their interrelationships</span>


**2) Reject role playing as policy makers. The structure of preparatory pedagogy in role playing eviscerates debaters' agency, perpetuating a governmental system of control over critical thought.**
**<span class="cite">Mitchell 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the William Pitt Debating Union at the University of Pittsburgh. “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate”. Argumentation and Advocacy, Volume 35, Issue 2. Fall 1998. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6699/is_2_35/ai_n28720712/) SLS </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Complete reliance on ... manufacture public loyalty. </span>


**3) Winning rounds are fantastic but at the end of the day we need something more, something real to discuss about instead nuclear war, something that can lead to actual democratic empower. Bids become meaningless if we can't enact actual social change.**
<span class="cite">Mitchell 98</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the William Pitt Debating Union at the University of Pittsburgh. “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate”. Argumentation and Advocacy, Volume 35, Issue 2. Fall 1998. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6699/is_2_35/ai_n28720712/) SLS </span>

**__Academics can no ...__** **__fields of social action.__**

=**__Negative__**= 
==__Kritiks__== 
===__Security K__=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 1NC </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">By replicating the predominant image of a global space teeming with dangers against a national homeland which must be secured, the discourse of the 1AC contributes to the emergence of destructive security-state that becomes indistinguishable from the forms of violence it seeks to prevent.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Agamben</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">Professor of Philosophy at the Collège International de Philosophie in Paris,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;"> 20**02** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">[Giorgio, Theory & Event 5:4, ProjectMuse]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Security as the ... once they occur. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">The affirmative’s call to maintain a stable and secure global order only masquerades as international benevolence. Solutions to new global problems only perpetuate a condition of continual crises that security justifies</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">**Dillon and Reid**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">Professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster and lecturer in international relations at Kings College in London,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;"> 2000 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">[Michael and Julian, Alternatives vol. 25, issue 1, spring, EbscoHost]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">As a precursor ...</span> problematized by it.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">The 1AC calls into existence a world replete with dangerous flaws in need of correction at all costs. The image of catastrophe is not a neutral depiction of the way things are, but a violent project of eliminating otherness.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">**Campbell**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">Professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">, 19**98** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">[David, Writing Security, p. 47-48]</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">To talk of ...</span>acting as a bridge.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (47-48)</span>


**The affirmative’s securitizing representations reduce human freedom and agency to a calculation- this is uniquely dehumanizing and destroys the value to life**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 23px;">**Dillon 1996** (Michael is a professor of politics at the University of Lancaster, Politics of Security, p. 26)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Everything, for example, ... details have changed. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">The inability to accept the inherent disorder of existence results in a violent struggle to overcome uncertainty in the name of an unattainable security—this futile quest has brought into existence the technology to eradicate life on earth and the political context that makes such an apocalypse both possible and necessary.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">**Campbell and Dillon**, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle and professor of politics at Lancaster University, 19**93** [David and Michael, The Political Subject of Violence, p. 163-165]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">This interpretation of... and moral inhibitions.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Don’t allow debate to be nothing more than a space for the ritual repetition of statehood and sovereignty. Vote Negative to reject the affirmative as an instance of the violent securitization. Refusing security logic opens up space for emancipatory political engagement more likely to deal with real world problems.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">**Neocleous, 2008** [Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">The only way ... return the gift."'</span>

==<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Politics</span>== 
===<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: #ffffff; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Debt Ceiling </span>=== 

**1NC**

**1. Debt ceiling will be increased**
Washington Times 2/10 **(Patrice Hill, 2/10/11, " Debt-ceiling debate stirs up speculation ", http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/feb/10/debt-ceiling-debate-stirs-up-speculation/)**

Among other things, ... budget reforms.


**3.Loss of capital kills Obama’s ability to get the debt exeiling extended, the impact is economic collapse**
Kenneth **Schortgen** Jr., finance analyst for the Examiner, **1/2/2011**. http://www.examiner.com/finance-examiner-in-national/both-congress-and-the-president-begin-the-battle-on-the-debt-ceiling
As the new ... 'game of chicken'? 


**4. Nuclear war**[[#_Toc159054796]]
Walter Russell **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead</span>**, a great American citizen, 2/4/**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>**, Only Makes You Stronger, The New Republic, p. http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0.2in;">None of which ... still __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have to fight</span>__. </span>