[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
CITES: ojsoccer9@yahoo.com

==HTS 1AC== 

**In order to begin a debate about war and military conquest, we must clarify the relation between the wars themselves and how we think of them. War is not an abstract and discrete epiphenomenon of international relations, rather, wars are efforts to alter social orders. Warring in the name of European imperial identities has shaped a global social order that naturalizes war.**

**This paradigm of war functions as a permanent suspension of ethics. The demand for bodies and land to reproduce the social order of the conquerors requires an inverted logic of identity where their own evils are projected onto gendered and racialized bodies that are condemned to the hell of perpetual violence and control. The conquerors define ethics as only being applicable among themselves, such that normal life for members of colonizing societies is driven by a death ethic of conquest and rape.** Maldonado-Torres 08
(Nelson, assoc. prof Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley, Against War: Views from the Underside of Modernity, p. 216-221)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Dussel, the phenomenology of the I conquer……</span>In such a world, <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">ontology collapses into a Manicheanism</span>, as Fanon suggested.

**For this reason, imperial violence must be seen as an endeavor to produce subjects, to determine forms of life. Wars produce terror and fear in order to capture imagination and desire to ensure the presence of subjects to reproduce the imperial order.** Bogues 06
(Anthony, chair of Africa Studies at Brown, “Imagination, Politics, and Utopia: Confronting the Present.” Boundary2 33:3, 153-6.)
What I suggest is that in our moment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">……</span>it has to trap both the imagination and desire.


**These insights raise questions about the resolution. Territorial logic is clearly part of the paradigm of war, as the language treats the locales as containers, “in” which “presence” can be “reduce(d).” The complicity of that presence in producing these conceptual containers makes the resolution paradoxical. What we can say is that US military and police presence is a euphemism for colonial violence enacted in locations spanning the globe, including “in” the United States. This logic of division makes it obvious that the resolution is premised on encouraging debates about where military presence should be, where the military complex will merely be preparing for some other conflict, to be labeled “Yemen,” “Venezuela,” “Oakland,”. This demands, then, that our affirmation take on some anthropological bent, to study other people to determine where US mercy would be most difficult to rebut. Given the episteme that would undergird such research, however, we find it necessary to take a different approach in order to avoid inquiring in bad faith** – Gordon 06
(Jane Anna Gordon, associate director of the Institute for the Study of Race and Social Thought and the Center for Afro-Jewish Studies at Temple University, “Some Reflections on Challenges Posed to Social Scientific Method by the Study of Race,” A Companion to African-American Studies, edited by Gordon & Gordon, p. 280)

Although Richard Dawkins (1989) <span style="font-size: 8pt;">……</span><span class="UnderlineChar3"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: none;">not the substantive commitments underpinning it. </span></span>


**We utilize this debate to contend that the resolution is indeed resolved. US military and police presence all over the world is colonial and simply terrifying. There must be a commitment to eradicating it, which in the historical context would at various times result in the US, reducing its “presence … in” locales of the resolution. Political struggles against the paradigm of war should, lead to a reduction in so-called military presence. But, political struggles articulate specific demands despite being grounded in colonial epistemology. We thus ask, how does US strategy use military presence to produce subjects? In the wake of the invasion of Iraq, the strategy has shifted from propping up client states to mapping the “human terrain” in order to more effectively colonize.**
Middle East Report 08
(Editorial, “Empire’s Eastern Reach,” MER 246 Spring 2008, http://www.merip.org/mer/mer246/editorial.html. Editors:)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The occasion for Ignatius’ column was the …… </span><span class="UnderlineChar2"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: none;">deep-seated sectarian-ethnic conflict and tribalism.</span></span>

**Thus, “military presence” has now come to include Human Terrain Systems, a superb vehicle for creating new subjectivities of conquest. Data is collected, analyzed, disseminated, and used to target and redirect military presence. technology is used to transform understandings of “culture” while the “soft power” image of occupation receives a steady stream of PR that legitimizes the colonial project here in the “homeland.”** González 08
(Roberto J., associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University, “A Phoenix Rising?
The $60 million U.S. program <span style="font-size: 8pt;">……</span><span class="UnderlineChar2"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: none;">impoverishment of American social science</span></span> today. 



**How can there be a science of a society from the vantage point of one who is changing, or destroying, that society? But this demands we ask, are we, by affirming this resolution with obvious imperial designs, merely “embedded social scientists,” providing rationalizations for the military to continue to exist? The ties between what we are doing and how HTS came about are well described as a process of class formation wherein humans are “managed” through mastery of information** – Hayes 06
(Floyd W. Hayes, senior lecturer in Political Science and African-Americ Studies at Johns Hopkins University, “Politics of Knowledge: Black Policy Professionals in the Managerial Age,” A Companion to African-American Studies, edited by Gordon & Gordon, p. 438-9)
<span class="UnderlineChar2"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: none;">The managerial transformation of </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">……</span>in leading popular journals of opinion.


**We thus have no need to “speak for others” to call for the end of HTS; it threatens to shape who WE are, to shape our futures directly and indirectly through academic funding and control. ––––We thus defend the proposition that the United States should eliminate Human Terrain Systems – even in the context where such a proposition is limited to its primary current locales, “Iraq and Afghanistan,”––––not as a substitution or replacement for our general call, to end these colonial occupations, but rather to engage our produced identities as “policy experts” using the social sciences so we can build bridges among the quasi-professional debate world.**
Hamilakis 2009
(Yannis Hamilakis, professor at the University of Southampton, “The ‘War on Terror’and the Military-Archaeology Complex: Iraq, Ethics, and Neo-Colonialism,”Journal of the World Archaeological Congress © 2009) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A counter-argument to the objections raised above …… separating people and things. </span>

**Our role in the debate is not to defend one version of the truth and contend that this “resolves” the question of the topic. There are multiple ways to “affirm” it, and our project is to affirm the resolution, defend the proposal of eliminating HTS, and advocate for a decolonial attitude. The framework for decisionmaking in this debate should not be a “policy reduction” that reduces the debate to the differences between competing plan texts. Rather, it should be a “decolonial reduction” whose preferential option for the condemned demands an epistemology beyond the non-ethics of war.**
Maldonado-Torres 08
(Nelson, assoc. prof. Ethnic Studies at UC Berkely, //Against War//, p. 243-6)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cartesianism introduces a highly abstract conception …… levels but also vis-a-vis epistemic levels. </span>



== == 
==Abolition 1AC== 
Contention One is Topicality
A subpoint: Voting Issue
1. For roughly five centuries, a form of colonial difference mapped upon the world by colonizers has accrued enough symbolic power to capture the world’s self-definition. Securing the interests of the well-being of Man, the idealized subject of colonizing epistemologies, has become a global dynamic imperative that drives the world’s myriad interlocking problems – Wynter 03
(Sylvia, prof emeritus of Spanish/Portuguese and African/Afro-American Studies at Stanford, “Unsettling the Coloniality of Being/Power/Truth/Freedom: Towards the Human, After Man, Its Overrepresentation—An Argument.” CR: The New Centennial Review 3.3, pp. 260-1.)
THE ARGUMENT PROPOSES THAT <span class="UnderlineChar1"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">THE STRUGGLE ..... Man vs. Human struggle.</span></span>


2. All of our disciplinary knowledges function according to this over-representation. Wynter 06.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sylvia, prof emeritus of Spanish/Portuguese and African/African-American Studies at Stanford, “On How We Mistook the Map for the Territory.” //Not Only The Masters Tools: African-American Studies in Theory and Practice//, ed. Gordon and Gordon, pp. 123-132.)</span>
It is, however, the second foundational strategy ..... what dialecticians call "Absolute Being" (Gordon 2002c: 10).



B subpoint: Standards
1. The terms of debate cannot be set by Man – decolonization entails working out concepts with a different conception of time derived from the experience of the damnés – Maldonado-Torres 06
(Nelson, assoc. prof Comparative Ethnic Studies, UC Berkeley, “The Time of History, the Times of Gods, and the Damnés de la terre.” Worlds and Knowledges Otherwise 1:2, Spring, http://www.jhfc.duke.edu/wko/dossiers/1.2/)
When the racialized subject writes .....<span class="UnderlineChar1"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> temporality of the damnés.</span></span>

2. Engaged intellectual political work is temporally situated; we should evaluate it in terms of its contribution to the project of liberation rather than the project of empire – Gordon 06
(Lewis R., professor of Philosophy at Temple. Disciplinary Decadence: Living Thought in Trying Times, pp. 105-6.)
There is, of course, the continued resounding question ......<span class="UnderlineChar1"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> future of our species rest.</span></span>

3. The project for debaters is not to aspire to be inside or outside the master epistemology, but to build ideas that will allow for its transcendence – Gordon 06
(Lewis R., professor of philosophy at Temple, and Jane Anna, fellow in poli sci at University of Pennsylvania, “Introduction.” Not Only the Master’s Tools: African American Studies in Theory and Practice, eds. Gordon/Gordon, pp. ix.)
"The master's tools ......<span class="UnderlineChar3"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> offered by such domination</span></span>.


C. Interpretation: United States Federal Government military and police presence is an empire of liberty, a colonial administration whose ambit is the over-representation of Man as if were the Human. Bogues 06
(Anthony, chair of Africa Studies at Brown, “Imagination, Politics, and Utopia: Confronting the Present.” Boundary2 33:3, 153-6.)
What I suggest is that in our moment, one aspect of <span class="UnderlineChar3"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the </span></span>......it has to trap both the imagination and desire.


D subpoint – Definition
We stand resolved that the United States Federal Government should abolish its military and police presence in at least all of the following: Afghanistan, Iraq, Japan, Kuwait, South Korea, and Turkey.


Contention Two is Significance:
Our complicity in US war demands our participation in projects for truth and reconciliation to abolish its murderous lies and the violence they enable. This requires a consistent project of decolonization, employing a decolonial attitude to challenge the dominant episteme – Maldonado-Torres 06
(Nelson, asst. prof. Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley, “Reconciliation as a Contested Future: Decolonization as Project or Beyond the Paradigm of War.” Reconciliation, Nations and Churches in Latin America, ed. Iain S. MacLean, pp. 240-5.)
The explorations in this volume of the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions ..... perverse expressions of coloniality in the modern world. 


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]