[[toc]]
=Japan Marines Affirmative= 

==Wake Forest== 

===Wake Forest - 1AC - Inherency Contention=== 

**Contention One is The Status Quo—**

**American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.**
**Talmadge, ’10**
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Uncertainty over a Marine base and plans to move thousands of U.S. troops to Guam are straining a post-World War II security alliance Japan and the United States set 50 years ag</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">o, but Tokyo's new leader said Tuesday he stands behind the pact. </span><span class="CardChar0">Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he sees the arrangement as a crucial means of maintaining the balance of power in Asia, where the economic and military rise of China is looming large, and vowed to stand behind it despite recent disputes with Washington. "Keeping our alliance with the United States contributes to peace in the region," Kan said</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in a televised question-and-answer session with other party leaders</span><span class="CardChar0">. "Stability helps the U.S.-Japan relationship, and that between China and Japan and, in turn, China and the United States."</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The U.S.-Japan alliance, formalized over violent protests in 1960, provides for the defense of Japan while assuring the U.S. has regional bases that serve as a significant deterrent to hostilities over the Korean Peninsula or Taiwan. Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, nearly 50,000 American troops are deployed throughout Japan. </span><span class="CardChar0">The U.S. forces include a key naval base south of Tokyo where the only permanently forward-deployed aircraft carrier has its home port; Kadena Air Base, which is one of the largest in Asia; and more than 10,000 U.S. Marines on the southern island of Okinawa.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The large U.S. presence over the past five decades has allowed Japan to keep its own defense spending low, to about 1 percent of its GDP, and focus its spending elsewhere — a factor that helped it rebuild after World War II to become the world's second-largest economy. "Even though there are some small problems here and there, in the bigger sense the relationship remains strong," said Jun Iio, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. "Very few people think that it is actually necessary to make major changes in the alliance." </span><span class="CardChar0">But while the alliance is one of the strongest Washington has anywhere in the world, it has come under intense pressure lately over a plan to make sweeping reforms that would pull back roughly 8,600 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. The move was conceived in response to opposition on Okinawa to the large U.S. military presence there</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> — more than half of the U.S. troops in Japan are on Okinawa, which was one of the bloodiest battlefields of World War II. Though welcomed by many at first, </span><span class="CardChar0">the relocation plan has led to renewed Okinawan protests over the U.S. insistence it cannot be carried out unless a new base is built on Okinawa to replace one that has been set for closing for more than a decade. A widening rift between Washington and Tokyo over the future of the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station was a major factor in the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama earlier this month. It could well plague Kan as well.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kan has vowed to build a replacement facility on Okinawa, as the U.S. demanded, but details are undecided. </span><span class="CardChar0">Implementing the agreement would need the support of the local governor, who has expressed opposition to it. Kan was scheduled to visit Okinawa on Wednesday for ceremonies marking the end of the 1945 battle there that hastened Japan's surrender.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Recent tension on the Korean peninsula and China's growing military assertiveness have undoubtedly driven home the importance of the U.S. security pact with Japanese leaders. Before he stepped down, Hatoyama suggested that the March sinking of a South Korean warship, allegedly by a North Korean torpedo, contributed to his decision keep Futenma on Okinawa — reversing a campaign pledge to move it off the island. Tokyo was alarmed in April when a Chinese helicopter came within 300 feet (90 meters) of a Japanese military monitoring vessel in the vicinity of a Chinese naval exercise. That same month, Chinese ships were also spotted in international waters off Okinawa. Still, the Okinawa problem underscores an increasingly skeptical stance among some Japanese leaders toward the role of the security alliance. </span><span class="CardChar0">Though the pact was strongly supported by the staunchly pro-U.S. conservative party that ruled Japan for most of the past 60 years, the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan, which swept to office last year, have taken a more nuanced approach, saying that while close security ties with Washington remain crucial Japan needs to improve its relations with its Asian neighbors, particularly China. On Monday, Kan said he will reassure Obama when they meet at a summit this weekend that Japan-U.S. ties continue to be "the cornerstone" of Japan's diplomacy. But he added that "I want to view this relationship from a broader point of view," and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships. </span>

**US military presence in Okinawa is spurring grassroots opposition within Japan against—threatens to devastate the US Japan alliance and US power projection capabilities**
**Auslin, Japanese Studies Director @ AEI, ’10**
[Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, [[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A great sigh of relief erupted</span></span> in Washington and Tokyo Friday <span class="CardChar0">when</span> Prime Minister Naoto <span class="CardChar0">Kan reaffirmed his commitment to the U</span>nited <span class="CardChar0">S</span>tates-<span class="CardChar0">Japan security alliance. In particular, defense officials focused on Mr. Kan's promise to stick with a 2006 agreement with the U.S. to move a Marine air wing from one part of Okinawa Island to another. But even so, there remain fissures in the U.S.-Japan relationship that could erupt into further crises for the alliance. Senior Japanese military officials</span> I've recently interviewed <span class="CardChar0">believe</span> former Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama set back Tokyo's rela tions with its own citizens in Okinawa by at least a decade by waffling on the 2006 deal, and that <span class="CardChar0">the opposition to U.S. bases in Japan, emboldened by the former prime minister's position, could endanger much broader bilateral military relations between the two countries.</span> This bigger story has received almost no attention in domestic or foreign press, but needs to be understood by those dismissive of the recent spat's importance. <span class="CardChar0">The 2006 agreement to move the Marine air wing at Futenma to Camp Schwab in the northern part of the island, and 8,000 Marines to Guam from Okinawa, was just one part of a broader realignment of U.S. forces in Japan. In the view of senior Japanese military leadership, however, the actual centerpiece of the 2006 agreement is the expansion of Marine Corps Air Station</span> (MCAS) Iwakuni, located <span class="CardChar0">in Yamaguchi Prefecture, in the west of Japan's main island, Honshu.</span> MCAS Iwakuni already hosts several Marine air squadrons, including the only American F/A-18 Hornet squadron permanently based abroad. Under the 2006 agreement, the USS George Washington's fighters, which comprise the navy's only permanently forward-deployed air wing, will relocate to Iwakuni by 2014 from the more congested Naval Air Facility Atsugi, located close to Tokyo. <span class="CardChar0">In addition, a squadron of Marine Corps KC-130 tankers will also vacate Futenma for Iwakuni. In their stead, a squadron of Japanese Maritime SelfDefense Forces surveillance planes, P-3s, will leave Iwakuni for Atsugi. All this might sound confusing, but the planned realignment will in essence reduce the chances of catastrophic accidents happening in heavily populated areas at both Futenma and Atsugi, and will build up the less-populated Iwakuni base. Here's the rub: The U.S. Department of Defense has made it clear that, unless the entire 2006 realignment plan goes forward, no individual pieces will be set in motion. And it all depends on moving the Marine helicopters out of Futenma, which has long been a source of political contention between Tokyo and Washington. The Japanese government</span>, moreover, <span class="CardChar0">is committed to moving its surveillance planes to Atsugi, but that move probably won’t happen if the American carrier air wing stays put. Japanese military officials worry that this year’s protests in Okinawa could have spillover effects, inspiring protesters around Atsugi to demand a reduced American presence, and possibly even agitating against the government plan to move Japanese planes there.</span> Moreover, Iwakuni’s mayor might reject the new burden of potentially hosting the George Washington’s air wing. <span class="CardChar0">That, in turn, would embolden antinuclear protesters in Yokosuka, the U.S. Navy’s main base, to step up their ongoing pressure to move the nuclear-powered George Washington, the Navy’s only permanently forward deployed aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters. This worst-case scenario would be a series of simultaneous, grassroots movements against the U.S. military presence in Japan that could potentially put fatal stress on the bilateral security alliance and effectively isolate Japan militarily in the western Pacific.</span> Given Mr. Hatoyama’s fate when he botched this issue, <span class="CardChar0">politicians now are more likely to respond to public demands or they will be replaced by those who do. The resulting political clash would either reaffirm tight ties with Washington or lead to endemic paralysis in Japan’s national security establishment. Given that the U.S. has permanently forward deployed ships and planes only in Japan, any scenario like the one sketched out above could significantly weaken U.S. capability to operate in the western Pacific, and thus call into question U.S. credibility as the underwriter of regional stability at a time when a crisis is brewing on the Korean peninsula and China continues to flex its naval and air muscle. Anyone concerned about that scenario</span>, even if unlikely, <span class="CardChar0">realizes that the next half-decade of U.S.-Japan relations will have to go back to basics: rebuilding trust in the relationship, agreeing on a common set of objectives in Japan’s waters and throughout Northeast Asia, and strengthening a commitment to upholding the alliance’s military capabilities. The good news is that Japan’s bureaucrats and military leaders remain more committed than ever to revitalizing the alliance. Whether politicians on both sides of the Pacific are willing to follow them, however, is another matter. No one believes that Washington and Tokyo are about to end their half-century-old alliance over an airstrip on an island in the middle of the ocean. But no one imagined, either, that a carefully crafted, decade-long negotiating process would be so carelessly upended by short-term political calculations.</span> Prime Minister Kan can’t afford to ignore the fissures opened by his predecessor and should work to heal them. 

**Japanese political changes mean nothing—the new party leaders are mired in the status quo**
**Harris, ’10**
[Tobias Harris, Doctoral student in political science @ The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy,” July 16th 2010, [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html]]] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">For a</span></span> brief <span class="CardChar0">moment</span>, Naoto <span class="CardChar0">Kan looked like the anchor who could end Japan’s drift.</span> Where his predecessor, Yukio Hatoyama, was a patrician dogged by corruption scandals and perceived as incapable of leading his own government, Kan came into the premiership stressing his own middle-class background. He pledged to recommit the governing Democratic Party of Japan to its ambitious agenda: reversing the country’s long decline by reforming its bureaucracy and social safety net while jump-starting the economy. Moreover, <span class="CardChar0">his commitment to replace an aging U.S. air base on Okinawa signaled a possible end to a dispute that had soured relations with Washington and led to Hatoyama’s resignation. A mere month later, Japan is once again mired in political confusion. In July the DPJ fell well short of a majority in the upper-house elections.</span> It will now have to find either permanent coalition partners or, failing that, parties willing to cooperate on an issue-by-issue basis. Kan has survived his party’s defeat but faces a party leadership election in September that looks certain to be contentious. <span class="CardChar0">The result is that the DPJ government will have little choice but to moderate its goals. Accordingly, for U.S. policymakers interested in strengthening the relationship often described as “the cornerstone of peace and security” in East Asia, Japan’s domestic political environment will continue to serve as an obstacle.</span> For the foreseeable future, no government will be in a position to advance major new initiatives, especially those pertaining to Japan’s security policy. And the sad reality is that even if the DPJ had won a convincing victory,<span class="CardChar0"> Washington’s interest in a more active security partnership—in which Japan would spend more on its armed forces, participate more in overseas operations, and perhaps even revise or reinterpret its Constitution to permit self-defense within the alliance—would continue to face serious obstacles.</span> As the government’s fiscal situation worsens, it becomes less and less likely that Tokyo will take up an ambitious security policy agenda. Fixing the government’s finances is a key step to addressing the other pocketbook issues with which voters are concerned. <span class="CardChar0">It is unlikely that a government implementing controversial budget cuts and tax increases would also take up the contentious question of how it should contribute to the defense of Japan and security in East and Central Asia. Its fear would be that the public would punish leaders perceived as focused on problems far from Japanese shores as it implements policies that hurt Japanese households. Moreover, for a cash-strapped government, the status quo, in which Japan limits its defense spending while subsidizing U.S. bases in Japan, continues to suit Japan’s interests. The logic of the Yoshida doctrine—which was formulated during the early postwar period, and which called for low defense spending combined with an alliance founded on U.S. bases in Japan—remains relevant today: Japanese leaders once saw the doctrine as the key to postwar economic development, and now the same policies provide resources for shoring up Japan’s social safety net and halting economic decline.</span> The irony, then, is that <span class="CardChar0">despite the DPJ’s desire for a more equal relationship with the United States, the political and economic logic of austerity suggests that Japan will likely grow even more dependent on the U.S. for its security, with the difference being that the relationship will be more fragile.</span> For Japan, every U.S. initiative toward China will be scrutinized for signs that the U.S. is abandoning Japan in the region. Similarly, for Washington, every initiative to deepen cooperation within East Asia that excludes the U.S. will be questioned and may prompt grumbling about Japanese free-riding. In other words, these are the makings of a tumultuous decade for the alliance. <span class="CardChar0">What can Washington do to minimize the friction? To a certain extent, the Obama administration has already taken several steps in the right direction. Unlike its predecessor, the current administration is less wedded to Japanese military contributions</span> and gladly accepted a sizable Japanese financial contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. <span class="CardChar0">When not feuding over Okinawa, the administration has made clear that it wants to work with Tokyo in areas like climate change. But the U.S. needs to be patient—especially on Okinawa. It needs to accept that in the months and years to come, anything beyond a limited military alliance focused on the defense of Japan is a nonstarter for Japan’s beleaguered politicians. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan—The United States Federal Government should close the Marines Corp Air Station Futenma in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan and phase out all Marines stationed on Okinawa except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to the point of elimination. We’ll Clarify. </span>**

===Wake Forest - 1AC Alliance Advantage - East Asia Scenario=== 

**Contention Two is The Alliance**

**Scenario One is East Asia**

**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities against all major threats and allows for regional interdependence—solves for Chinese aggression over Taiwan, North Korean Nuclearizaiton, and is key to keeping open sea lines of communications**
Rapp, Former CFR Fellow @ Tokyo’s IIPS, ’04
[<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span></span>“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This monograph began by making the assertion that </span><span class="CardChar0">the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working in close concert.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. </span><span class="CardChar0">This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in a positive manner, </span><span class="CardChar0">the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, </span><span class="CardChar0">“The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 207 </span><span class="CardChar0">Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 208 </span><span class="CardChar0">North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (SLOC) </span><span class="CardChar0">running through Southeast and East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 </span><span class="CardChar0">Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 212 </span><span class="CardChar0">At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 213 </span><span class="CardChar0">This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 </span><span class="CardChar0">Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. </span><span class="CardChar0">Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region. </span>

**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check**
**Ikenberry & Mastanduno, Professors @ Princeton & Dartmouth, ’03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP 
<span class="CardChar0">Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> within and </span><span class="CardChar0">between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. </span><span class="CardChar0">The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous</span><span class="CardChar0">. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' </span><span class="CardChar0">Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors)</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, </span><span class="CardChar0">which make even defensive weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the region </span><span class="CardChar0">appear threatening</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for Chinese security. </span><span class="CardChar0">One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to </span><span class="CardChar0">agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability.</span>

**Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation**
**Nye et al., Professor @ Harvard, 2K**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] </span>
<span class="CardChar0">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. </span><span class="CardChar0">In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. </span>

**North Korean nuclearization causes extinction**
**Hayes & Green, Professors @ RMIT U & Victoria U, ’09**
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>] 
<span class="CardChar0">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and related political and economic issues, </span><span class="CardChar0">are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, </span><span class="CardChar0">leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. </span><span class="CardChar0">Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).</span><span class="CardChar0">The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. </span><span class="CardChar0">A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. </span><span class="CardChar0">Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. </span><span class="CardChar0">There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5, </span><span class="CardChar0">with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">North Korea is currently believed to have sufficient plutonium stocks to produce up to 12 nuclear weapons.6 If and when it is successful in implementing a uranium enrichment program - having announced publicly that it is experimenting with enrichment technology on September 4, 20097 in a communication with the UN Security Council - it would likely acquire the capacity to produce over 100 such weapons. </span><span class="CardChar0">Although some may dismiss Korean Peninsula proliferation risks on the assumption that the North Korean regime will implode as a result of its own economic problems, food problems, and treatment of its own populace, there is little to suggest that this is imminent. If this were to happen, there would be the risk of nuclear weapons falling into hands of non-state actors in the disorder and chaos that would ensue. Even without the outbreak of nuclear hostilities on the Korean Peninsula in either the near or longer term, North Korea has every financial incentive under current economic sanctions and the needs of its military command economy to export its nuclear and missile technologies to other states</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Indeed, it has already been doing this for some time. The Proliferation Security Initiative may conceivably prove effective in intercepting ship-borne nuclear exports, but it is by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted</span><span class="CardChar0">. Given the high stakes involved, North Korean proliferation, if unaddressed and unreversed, has the potential to destabilize the whole East Asian region and beyond. </span>

**Strong partnership prevents aggressive Chinese expansionism**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Although the U.S.-Japan security partnership grew out of a need to contain the Soviet Union and has endured in large part because of North Korea’s threat, many analysts see countering China as the primary driver of the campaign to enhance cooperation today. The U.S. approach to rising China is often characterized by observers as having two prongs</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that roughly correspond to the </span><span class="CardChar0">“engagement” and “containment”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> camps. The </span><span class="CardChar0">“engagement” approach includes the “responsible stakeholder” concept outlined most prominently by former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick, which aims to convince Beijing to contribute peacefully to the international system that has allowed its economic and political rise. The “containment” aspect of U.S. policy seeks to counter a China that could develop in ways inimical to U.S. interests. The U.S.-Japan alliance plays a role in both approaches. In the former, Japan could serve as a model of responsible multilateral engagement as well as a key economic partner for China in the region. In the latter, enhanced joint defense capabilities from neighboring Japan could deter any aggressive behavior by China’s military. U.S. forward deployment in Japan plays a particularly important role in contingency strategies for a conflict with China over Taiwan. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">29 </span>

**Aggression causes War over Taiwan**
**Copley News Service, ’05**
[Copley News Service, “Daily Editorials: Bombs and Butter,” July 24th 2005] 
<span class="CardChar0">As China gains</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> economic </span><span class="CardChar0">clout, its government's brand of touchy, saber-rattling nationalism becomes more worrisome. That touchiness is rooted in the memory of humiliation inflicted by foreigners, from the Western colonial concessions of the 19th century, and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> it is rooted in the more recent memory of </span><span class="CardChar0">Japanese atrocities during</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span class="CardChar0">World War II</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> occupation. That wounded pride explains the orchestrated national spleen-venting over Japanese textbooks, the 2001 U.S. spy plane collision and the mistaken U.S. bombing of China's embassy during the Kosovo campaign. </span><span class="CardChar0">It has much to do with China's oft-repeated threats to attack Taiwan, which seem extreme to everyone except the Chinese. As China gains power, that nationalism becomes more worrisome. China's authoritarian government lacks the natural restraint of voters or of dissenters free to challenge government assumptions that can lead to war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Pentagon recently reported that </span><span class="CardChar0">China is rapidly building its military with a goal of extending its influence across Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the future, </span><span class="CardChar0">its leaders "may be tempted to resort to force or coercion more quickly to press diplomatic advantage, advance security interests or resolve disputes</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">," the report concluded. </span><span class="CardChar0">If more muscle combined with nationalist passions tempt Chinese leaders to attack Taiwan, the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and the world would be faced with a crisis more serious than</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> any since at least </span><span class="CardChar0">the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1962 </span><span class="CardChar0">Cuban missile crisis</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> with the Soviet Union. The United States would feel compelled to come to Taiwan's aid, </span><span class="CardChar0">resulting in a war between heavily armed countries that possess nuclear arsenals.</span>

**Nuclear Armageddon**
**Straits Times, 2K**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
<span class="CardChar0">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. <span class="CardChar0">Conflict on such a scale </span></span><span class="CardChar0">would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span><span class="CardChar0">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by the likes of Iraq. </span><span class="CardChar0">In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, </span><span class="CardChar0">could enter a new and dangerous phase.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -->If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, <span class="CardChar0">there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. <span class="CardChar0">Major-General Pan Zhangqiang</span>, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He <span class="CardChar0">said </span></span><span class="CardChar0">military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> While the prospect of </span><span class="CardChar0">a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> might seem inconceivable, it </span><span class="CardChar0">cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. </span></span>

===Wake Forest - 1AC Alliance Advantage - Japanese Prolif Scenario=== 

**Japan will not nuclearize in the squo but stress on the alliance will force rearmament collapsing the NPT**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today, </span><span class="CardChar0">Japanese officials and experts remain </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">remarkably </span><span class="CardChar0">uniform in their consensus </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">that </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan is unlikely to move toward nuclear status in the short-to-medium term. However, as the security environment has shifted significantly, the topic is no longer toxic and has been broached by several leading politicians. North Korea’s test of a nuclear device </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in 2006 </span><span class="CardChar0">and China’s military modernization have altered the strategic dynamics in the region</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and </span><span class="CardChar0">any </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">signs of </span><span class="CardChar0">stress in the U.S.-Japan alliance raises questions among some about the robustness of the U.S. security guarantee. An ascendant hawkish, conservative movement—some of whom openly advocate for Japan to develop an independent nuclear arsenal—has gained more traction in Japanese politics, moving from the margins to a more influential position.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In addition, </span><span class="CardChar0">previous security-related taboos have been overcome in the past few years: the dispatch of Japanese military equipment and personnel to Iraq and Afghanistan, the elevation of the Japanese Defense Agency to a fullscale ministry, and Japanese co-development of a missile defense system with the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. All of </span><span class="CardChar0">these factors </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">together </span><span class="CardChar0">increase the still unlikely possibility that Japan will reconsider its position on nuclear weapons. Any reconsideration of Japan’s policy of nuclear weapons abstention would have significant implications for U.S. policy in East Asia. Globally, Japan’s withdrawal from the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty </span><span class="CardChar0">(NPT) could damage the most durable international non-proliferation regime. Regionally, Japan “going nuclear” could set off a nuclear arms race with China, South Korea, and Taiwan and, in turn, India, and Pakistan may feel compelled to further strengthen their own nuclear weapons capability. </span>

**Only restructuring the alliance can prevent Japanese political instability**
**Kapila, Strategic Affairs Analyst, ’10**
[Subhash Kapila, International Relations and Strategic Affairs analyst, South Asia Analysis Group Consultant, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact, June 7th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html|http://www.southasiaanalysis.org//papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] AP 
<span class="CardChar0">Japan has a vital role to play in the stability and security of North East Asia. North East Asia encompasses within its confines some of the most explosive flashpoints around the globe. China’s latent hostility towards U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">forward military presence</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in North East Asia </span><span class="CardChar0">is exercised by proxy through its militarily wayward protégé North Korea. Both target Japan's security and political stability to weaken its resolve to be an effective strategic partner of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. </span><span class="CardChar0">A strategically over-stretched United States especially under the present US Administration is engaged in a misplaced strategic initiative to enlist China as a partner in the strategic management of North East Asia and Asia. Japan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> whose security environment has been made more threatening by China’s military ambitions and North Korea as a nuclear weapons state, courtesy China, </span><span class="CardChar0">views US moves towards China as strategically insensitive. Its spill-off effect on Japanese domestic politics is the growing figuring of US-Japan Security Relationship issues in Japan’s domestic politics</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including frequent change of Prime Ministers. </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan’s recurrent political instability has a wide strategic impact on Japan’s policy formulations, crisis-management responses and its international image. Any further downslide in this direction can only help China and endanger US security interests and architecture in East Asia. The United States needs to awaken to this fact and also that the more “equitability” it endows to the Japan-US relationship may assist in lessening Japan’s political instability. </span>

**Political instability forces Japanese nationalism and nuclearization**
**Kapila, Strategic Affairs Analyst, ’10**
[Subhash Kapila, International Relations and Strategic Affairs analyst, South Asia Analysis Group Consultant, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact, June 7th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html|http://www.southasiaanalysis.org//papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] AP 
<span class="CardChar0">Simply put, to the Chinese obsessed with strategic assessments based on estimation of ‘Comprehensive National Power’,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in Chinese perceptions, </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan's strategic power gets that much more devalued by Japan's political instability and the growing American ambiguities on Japan’s value to US strategic interests. Briefly, this could lead to China adopting more pressure tactics against Japan on contentious issues and China’s attempts to isolate Japan in North East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> More than a healthy and stable Japan-China relationship, there is a greater strategic imperative and a call on the United States that American approaches to China and over-bearing American approaches to contentious Japan-US security issues does not render Japan vulnerable to China’s strategic and political coercion. </span><span class="CardChar0">The strategic spin-off for China from such exploitation of Japan’s vulnerabilities could result in re-emergence of Japanese nationalism, a nuclear weapon and missiles arsenal and an independent military posture. That could impinge on the United States too.</span>

**And re-arm causes an Asian arms race—Risks of nuclearization outweighs any potential benefits**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">To many security experts, the most alarming possible consequence of a Japanese decision to develop nuclear weapons would be the development of a regional arms race.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">33 </span><span class="CardChar0">The fear is based on the belief that a nuclear-armed Japan could compel South Korea to develop its own program; encourage China to increase and/or improve its relatively small arsenal; and possibly inspire Taiwan to pursue nuclear weapons. This in turn might have spill-over effects on the already nuclear-armed India and Pakistan. The</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prospect—or even </span><span class="CardChar0">reality</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span class="CardChar0">of several nuclear states rising in a region that is already rife with historical grievances and contemporary tension could be deeply destabilizing. The counter-argument</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, made by some security experts, </span><span class="CardChar0">is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that nuclear deterrence was stabilizing during the Cold War, and </span><span class="CardChar0">a similar nuclear balance could be achieved in Asia. However, most observers maintain that the risks outweigh potential stabilizing factors. </span>

**Asian proliferation uniquely risks nuclear war—Proximity of antagonistic countries and outdated detection systems make miscalculation likely**
**Cimbala, Professor @ Penn. State, ’08**
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci.—Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] 
<span class="CardChar0">The spread of ballistic missiles and other nuclear-capable delivery systems in Asia, or in the Middle East with reach into Asia, is especially dangerous because plausible adversaries live close together and are already engaged in ongoing disputes about territory or other issues.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">13 The Cold War Americans and Soviets required missiles and airborne delivery systems of intercontinental range to strike at one another’s vitals. But </span><span class="CardChar0">short-range ballistic missiles or ﬁghter-bombers sufﬁce for India and Pakistan to launch attacks at one another with potentially “strategic” effects. China shares borders with Russia, North Korea, India, and Pakistan; Russia, with China and North Korea; India, with Pakistan and China; Pakistan, with India and China; and so on. The short ﬂight times of ballistic missiles between the cities or military forces of contiguous states means that very little time will be available for warning and attack assessment by the defender.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Conventionally </span><span class="CardChar0">armed missiles could easily be mistaken for a tactical nuclear ﬁrst use</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Fighter-bombers appearing over the horizon could just as easily be carrying nuclear weapons as conventional ordnance. In addition to the challenges posed by shorter ﬂight times and uncertain weapons loads, potential victims of nuclear attack in Asia may also have ﬁrst strike–vulnerable forces and command-control systems that increase decision pressures for rapid, and possibly mistaken, retaliation.</span> <span class="CardChar0">This potpourri of possibilities challenges conventional wisdom about nuclear deterrence and proliferation on the part of policymakers and academic theorists. For policymakers in the United States and NATO, spreading nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in Asia could profoundly shift the geopolitics of mass destruction from a European center of gravity</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (in the twentieth century) </span><span class="CardChar0">to an Asian and/or Middle Eastern center of gravity</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (in the present century).14</span> <span class="CardChar0">This would profoundly shake up prognostications to the effect that wars of mass destruction are now passe</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, on account of the emergence of the “Revolution in Military Affairs” and its encouragement of information-based warfare.15 Together with this, there has emerged the argument that large-scale war between states or coalitions of states, as opposed to varieties of unconventional warfare and failed states, are exceptional and potentially obsolete.16</span> <span class="CardChar0">The spread of WMD and ballistic missiles in Asia could overturn these expectations for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare. </span>

**And nuclearization causes rapid defections from the NPT**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Diplomatically, the policy turn-about would have profound implications. Japan has built a reputation as a leader in non-proliferation and as a promoter of nuclear disarmament. It has consistently called for a “safe world free of nuclear weapons on the earliest possible date.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Japan submits a resolution to the General Assembly’s First Committee each year on a nuclear-free world and submits working papers to the NPT review conferences and preparatory committees on disarmament. It has been a vocal advocate for IAEA verification and compliance and was the first to respond with sanctions to nuclear tests in South Asia and North Korea. It has been a constant voice in support of nuclear disarmament in international fora. </span><span class="CardChar0">An about-face on its non-nuclear weapon state status would dramatically change the global view of Japan, or might dramatically change the perception of nuclear weapons possession in the world. This move could have profound implications for nuclear proliferation elsewhere, perhaps leading to additional NPT withdrawals.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Acquiring nuclear weapons could also hurt Japan’s long-term goal of permanent membership on the U.N. Security Council. </span>


**Even a shift by Japan to consider nuclear weapons will trigger regional prolif and gut the NPT**
**Bakanic, Nuclear Weapons Analysis, ’08**
[6/9/08, Elizabeth D., BAS, “The end of Japan's nuclear taboo,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-end-of-japans-nuclear-taboo]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">All that said, </span><span class="CardChar0">by no means is Japan on the road to nuclear weapons development--or even considering it as a serious option.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Technically speaking, Japan has several huge constraints to nuclear weapons development--see "Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt" and "Japan's Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests." </span><span class="CardChar0">So why should the world be concerned about Japan's fading nuclear allergy? Because </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Tokyo's attitude toward nuclear weapons is incredibly important</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> to Japan's neighbors and the nonproliferation regime, meaning subtle changes in its attitude could carry serious security consequences for both. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Historically, Japan has maintained complicated relations with many of its neighbors--specifically China, North Korea, and South Korea. While functional relationships do exist, deep mistrust and suspicions persist, creating a paranoid security environment where an innocuous change from an outside perspective sets off alarm bells in the region. So </span><span class="CardChar0">what may seem like a natural shift in Japan's nuclear attitudes may be a destabilizing change for those less trustful and less objective. Therefore, </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">if discussing nuclear weapons becomes more acceptable in Japan</span></span><span class="CardChar0">, China and the Koreas might perceive this as a dangerous development and use it as an excuse to increase their military capabilities--nuclear or otherwise. In terms of the teetering nonproliferation regime, a change in Japan's attitude toward nuclear weapons would be a </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">serious blow</span></span><span class="CardChar0">.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> To date, Tokyo has been a foremost advocate of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, campaigning against proliferation and rejecting the idea of developing nuclear weapons despite possessing the best nuclear capability of any non-nuclear weapon state and having two nuclear weapon states near its borders. The binding nature of international agreements relies on such attention and support from its signatories. So </span><span class="CardChar0">although Japan may never violate the treaty, if </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Tokyo is perceived as being less supportive as it opens up domestically on the nuclear issue</span></span><span class="CardChar0">, the effect on NPT morale could be dire, which speaks directly to the NPT's current vulnerability. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Some element of the changing attitude toward nuclear weapons in Japan must be due to discomfort with the status quo and a security need that the NPT or the country's other security partnerships isn't satisfying. Therefore, a disturbing factor of Japan's nuclear normalization is what it may symbolize for the NPT overall. </span>

**NPT prevents runaway global proliferation**
**Dunn, Former NPT Ambassador, ’09**
[Lewis A. Dunn, Senior vice president of Science Applications International Corp, Former assistant director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Ambassador for the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in the Reagan Administration, “THE NPT: Assessing the Past, Building the Future,” Nonproliferation Review, Vol. 16 No. 2, July 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/npr_16-2_dunn.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Metric: </span><span class="CardChar0">Does NPT adherence provide a leverage point for outside influence and action to prevent proliferation? NPT adherence clearly provides a point of leverage</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, although the nature of that leverage* and its likely effectiveness*could vary depending on the country. In Iran’s case, its adherence to the NPT has been most useful as a rallying point for outside efforts to pressure Iranian leaders to think anew about their goals. UN Security Council Resolutions 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), and 1835 (2008) all reaffirmed the council’s support for the NPT, while Resolutions 1747 and 1803 both emphasized ‘‘the need for all States Parties to that Treaty to comply fully with all their obligations.’’ Moreover, some key European countries’ support for actions to stop Iran’s uranium enrichment activities has been linked to a belief*accurate or not*that Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons would put at risk the overall NPT structure.19 Amid continuing tensions between the George W. Bush administration and other countries, Iran’s NPT obligations provided a ready basis to argue that the issue was not simply one of the United States versus Iran. To use a hypothetical example, let us imagine that due to some combination of the most recent North Korean volte-face on giving up its nuclear weapons, tensions with China, and uncertainty about the U.S. security link, pressures grow in Japan to pursue nuclear weapons. In this case, outside powers could use Japan’s NPT adherence as a leverage point to urge the Japanese leadership to think carefully about whether to take that step. Japan’s NPT adherence*and the need for it to go through procedures to withdraw from the NPT*would also help buy time for new initiatives to deal with future Japanese security concerns. Still another example of the leverage provided by NPT membership concerns possible action to be taken after a country has violated its obligations and broken out of the NPT. Iran may yet be a future case in point. Should Iran acquire nuclear weapons, the international community will need to take many actions to contain the regional and global spillovers.20 Those actions could well include measures to make Iran pay a price for violating the NPT, to signal resolve to Iran, to its threatened neighbors, and to the wider NPT community. The fact that Iran would have violated its legal obligations under the NPT would provide a stronger foundation for any such international punitive actions. Metric: Did widespread NPT adherence help reverse the perception that runaway proliferation was unavoidable? </span><span class="CardChar0">In the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> early 19</span><span class="CardChar0">60s, there was a growing fear that widespread proliferation of nuclear weapons was possibly unavoidable.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> President John F. Kennedy warned in 1963 that a world with many dozens of nuclear weapon states might emerge. This fear of runaway proliferation gave urgency to the negotiation of a nonproliferation treaty, not least because of the belief that growing worldwide use of nuclear power would place access to nuclear weapons material in the hands of many countries.21 </span><span class="CardChar0">Such warnings of runaway proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, however, </span><span class="CardChar0">could well have become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Fearful of a world of nuclear powers, many countries might have sought nuclear weapons lest they be left behind. Responding to such fears</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the United States took actions to enhance the nuclear security of its European non-nuclear allies. In parallel, the United States, the Soviet Union, and many other </span><span class="CardChar0">countries joined together to create what became the nonproliferation regime. The NPT was and remains a key part of that regime.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Steadily growing </span><span class="CardChar0">membership in the NPT</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> after its opening for signature in 1968*including critical countries in Europe and Asia*provided a valuable symbol that </span><span class="CardChar0">demonstrated</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to many countries </span><span class="CardChar0">that runaway proliferation was not the wave of the future.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> So did the prospect of an international system of nuclear safeguards*run by a then-new International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)*to prevent diversion of nuclear weapon materials from peaceful nuclear uses. In effect, partly because of more traditional security mechanisms and partly </span><span class="CardChar0">due to the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> growing </span><span class="CardChar0">NPT</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> membership, </span><span class="CardChar0">early fears of a world of runaway global proliferation became a self-denying prophecy. Today, fears have again emerged that runaway proliferation could develop. It is often argued that the spread of nuclear weapons is at a ‘‘tipping point,’’ that there is a danger of ‘‘cascading’’ proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and that we could be entering a ‘‘new nuclear age.’’22 </span><span class="CardChar0">In this context, however, widespread adherence to the NPT alone will not suffice to counter fears of nuclear weapon proliferation. Rather, the NPT’s contribution to countering fears of runaway proliferation will depend heavily on whether there is a widespread perception that countries are complying fully with their NPT obligations.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Article II Net Assessment. The direct impact of Article II in preventing proliferation is mixed. Negotiation of the NPT with its ‘‘no manufacture, no acquisition’’ obligation forced a number of countries to decide whether or not to pursue nuclear weapons. Faced with that decision, important countries chose to renounce nuclear weapons. In deciding, states were motivated by a mix of considerations, and the NPT helped crystallize their decisions. By contrast, some prominent NPT parties have stayed in the NPT while pursuing nuclear weapons: North Korea, Iraq, and Libya*and quite possibly Iran. The indirect impact of Article II may be more compelling. </span><span class="CardChar0">The ‘‘no acquisition, no manufacture’’ obligation provides a nonproliferation leverage point for rallying outsiders, for engaging in dialogue with countries rethinking their nonproliferation commitment, and for taking action after NPT breakout. </span>

**Prolif creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Below, Masters Thesis for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, ’08**
[Tim D.Q., Wing Commander, RAF; MA in Defence Studies, King’s College London; “Options for US nuclear disarmament: exemplary leadership or extraordinary lunacy?,” June 2008, Thesis for School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Proliferation. Roger Molander, of RAND Corporation, asserts that “</span><span class="CardChar0">in the near future, a large number of countries are each going to develop a small number of nuclear weapons.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">50 </span><span class="CardChar0">The Union of Concerned Scientists considers this to be the greatest long term danger confronting both US and international security today.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">51 </span><span class="CardChar0">Proliferation increases risk in a number of ways. First, the more states that hold nuclear weapons, the more likely it is that one will have an insufficiently</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> mature or </span><span class="CardChar0">robust nuclear doctrine to manage its capability responsibly.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Tom Sauer suggests that </span><span class="CardChar0">developing states that do not have democratic political systems present a particularly high risk because</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in dictatorial regimes, </span><span class="CardChar0">the military are frequently in control, and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as Sagan has observed, </span><span class="CardChar0">the military appear to be more inclined to initiate preventative attacks against adversaries than civilians</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.52 </span><span class="CardChar0">Second, the more widely proliferated nuclear weapons become, the more</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> theoretical </span><span class="CardChar0">opportunities may be presented for theft</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of nuclear material. </span><span class="CardChar0">Third, proliferation increases the risk of nuclear intervention by an established nuclear power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including the five NWSs. Stephen Younger envisages several scenarios in which currently established nuclear powers might “feel a need” to intervene with nuclear weapons in present regional conflicts, especially if WMD are being employed or threatened. </span><span class="CardChar0">Moreover, since proliferation is frequently associated with reaction to nuclear development</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> either </span><span class="CardChar0">within a</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> bordering nation or </span><span class="CardChar0">regional counterpart</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, further proliferation is in turn likely to generate a quasi-exponential expansion of similar regional scenarios.53 Ambassador Lehman envisages a scenario in which </span><span class="CardChar0">proliferation may induce a chain reaction of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> related </span><span class="CardChar0">regional arms races that could result in unintended</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and unexpected </span><span class="CardChar0">consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> far removed from the objectives of the proliferating nations, </span><span class="CardChar0">and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the United States’ specific case, </span><span class="CardChar0">a risk that the nation could get sucked into a conventional regional conflict which is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> subsequently </span><span class="CardChar0">escalated into nuclear warfare</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by its allies or their opponents.54 </span>

**The terminal impact is extinction—Deterrence fails in a proliferated world**
**Krieger, President Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, ’09**
[David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor—World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan </span><span class="CardChar0">Tepperman’s article</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the September 7, 2009 issue of Newsweek, “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” </span><span class="CardChar0">provides a novel but frivolous argument</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that </span><span class="CardChar0">nuclear weapons </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">“may not, in fact, make the world more dangerous….” Rather, in Tepperman’s world, “The bomb </span><span class="CardChar0">may actually make us safer.” Tepperman shares this world with</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kenneth </span><span class="CardChar0">Waltz, a</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> University of California professor emeritus of political science, who Tepperman describes as “</span><span class="CardChar0">the leading ‘nuclear optimist</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.’” Waltz expresses his optimism in this way: “We’ve now had 64 years of experience since Hiroshima. It’s striking and against all historical precedent that for that substantial period, there has not been any war among nuclear states.” </span><span class="CardChar0">Actually, there were a number of proxy wars b</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">etween nuclear weapons states, such as</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> those in Korea, Vietnam and Afghanistan, and some near disasters,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the most notable being the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. </span><span class="CardChar0">Waltz’s logic is akin to observing a man falling from a high rise building, and noting that he had already fallen for 64 floors without anything bad happening to him, and concluding that so far it looked so good that others should try it. Dangerous logic</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">! Tepperman builds upon Waltz’s logic, and concludes “that all states are rational,” even though their leaders may have a lot of bad qualities, including being “stupid, petty, venal, even evil….” He asks us to trust that rationality will always prevail when there is a risk of nuclear retaliation, because these weapons make “the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable.” Actually, </span><span class="CardChar0">he is asking us to do more than trust in the rationality of leaders; he is asking us to gamble the future on this proposition</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. “The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling,” Tepperman argues, “it’s led to what’s known as the nuclear peace….” But if this is a peace worthy of the name, which it isn’t, it certainly is not one on which to risk the future of civilization. </span><span class="CardChar0">One irrational leader with control over a nuclear arsenal could </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">start a nuclear conflagration, resulting in a global Hiroshima</span></span><span class="CardChar0">.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Tepperman celebrates “the iron logic of deterrence,” but deterrence is a theory that is far from rooted in “iron logic.” It is a theory based upon threats that must be effectively communicated and believed. Leaders of Country A with nuclear weapons must communicate to other countries (B, C, etc.) the conditions under which A will retaliate with nuclear weapons. The leaders of the other countries must understand and believe the threat from Country A will, in fact, be carried out. </span><span class="CardChar0">The longer that nuclear weapons are not used, the more other countries may come to believe that they can challenge Country A with impunity from nuclear retaliation. The more that Country A bullies other countries, the greater the incentive for these countries to develop their own nuclear arsenals</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Deterrence is unstable</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> and therefore precarious.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Most of the countries in the world reject the argument, made most prominently by Kenneth Waltz, that the spread of nuclear weapons makes the world safer. These countries joined together in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, but they never agreed to maintain indefinitely a system of nuclear apartheid in which some states possess nuclear weapons and others are prohibited from doing so. The principal bargain of the NPT requires the five NPT nuclear weapons states (US, Russia, UK, France and China) to engage in good faith negotiations for nuclear disarmament, and the International Court of Justice interpreted this to mean complete nuclear disarmament in all its aspects. Tepperman seems to be arguing that seeking to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons is bad policy, and that nuclear weapons, because of their threat, make efforts at non-proliferation unnecessary and even unwise. If some additional states, including Iran, developed nuclear arsenals, he concludes that wouldn’t be so bad “given the way that bombs tend to mellow behavior.” Those who oppose Tepperman’s favorable disposition toward the bomb, he refers to as “nuclear pessimists.” </span><span class="CardChar0">These would be the people, and I would certainly be one of them, who see nuclear weapons as presenting an urgent danger to our security, our species and our future</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="CardChar0">Tepperman finds</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that when viewed from his “nuclear optimist” perspective, “nuclear weapons start to seem a lot less frightening.” “</span><span class="CardChar0">Nuclear peace,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> he tells us, “</span><span class="CardChar0">rests on a scary bargain</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span><span class="CardChar0">you accept a small chance that something extremely bad will happen</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in exchange </span><span class="CardChar0">for a much bigger chance that something very bad—conventional war—won’t happen</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.” </span><span class="CardChar0">But the “extremely bad” thing he </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">a__sks us to accept is the end of the human__ </span></span><span class="CardChar0">species.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Yes, that would be serious. </span><span class="CardChar0">He also doesn’t make the case that in a world without nuclear weapons, the prospects of conventional war would increase dramatically.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> After all, </span><span class="CardChar0">it is only an unproven supposition that nuclear weapons have prevented wars, or would do so in the future. We have certainly come far too close to the precipice of catastrophic nuclear war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As an ultimate celebration of the faulty logic of deterrence, Tepperman calls for providing any nuclear weapons state with a “survivable second strike option.” Thus, he not only favors nuclear weapons, but finds the security of these weapons to trump human security. Presumably he would have President Obama providing new and secure nuclear weapons to North Korea, Pakistan and any other nuclear weapons states that come along so that they will feel secure enough not to use their weapons in a first-strike attack</span><span class="CardChar0">. Do we really want to bet the human future that Kim Jong-Il and his successors are more rational </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">than Mr. Tepperman? </span>

**And even if the NPT doesn’t formally collapse, Japanese Nuclearization will set a precedent for others to nuclearize**
**Carranza, Professor @ Texas A&M, ’06**
[MARIO E. CARRANZA, Professor of Political Science @ Texas A & M University, Kingsville, “Can the NPT Survive? The Theory and Practice of US Nuclear Non-proliferation Policy after September 11,” Contemporary Security Policy, Vol.27, No.3, December 2006, Pg. 489–525]
<span class="CardChar0">Even if the NPT does not formally collapse, a silent crowd armed with nuclear weapon capabilities could come into existence if countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Japan or Taiwan decide to reconsider their decision to give up nuclear weapons and secretly pursue a nuclear weapon option while remaining NPT parties.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 2. Collapse provoked by a chain reaction of defections. </span><span class="CardChar0">A latent proliferator party to the NPT could build or acquire uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing plants (such as Japan’s Tokai Mura), place them under IAEA safeguards and then withdraw from the treaty</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> giving the three months’ advance notice required by Article X.125 </span><span class="CardChar0">A chain reaction of defections would erode the norm of non-proliferation embodied in the NPT, as well as the role of the treaty as a confidence-building measure.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The credibility of the IAEA safeguards system has already been undermined by the discovery of secret nuclear weapons programmes in Saddam Hussein’s Iraq and North Korea and by the discovery of undisclosed—suspicious—nuclear activities in Iran. </span>

**Nuclear latency poses a unique risk. Rapid prolif risks nuclear war**
**Horowitz, Professor @ U Penn, ’09**
[Michael Horowitz, Former Emory debater and NDT Champion, Professor of Political Science @ University of Pennsylvania, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons and International Conflict: Does Experience Matter?,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Volume 53 Number 2, April 200, Pg. 234-257]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Learning as states gain experience with nuclear weapons is complicated. While to some extent </span><span class="CardChar0">nuclear acquisition</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> might provide information about resolve or capabilities, it also </span><span class="CardChar0">generates uncertainty about the way an actual conflict would go—given the new risk of nuclear escalation—and uncertainty about relative capabilities. Rapid proliferation may</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> especially </span><span class="CardChar0">heighten uncertainty given the potential for reasonable states to disagree at times about the quality of the capabilities each possesses.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">3 </span><span class="CardChar0">What follows is an attempt to describe the implications of inexperience and incomplete information on the behavior of nuclear states and their potential opponents</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> over time. Since it is impossible to detail all possible lines of argumentation and possible responses, the following discussion is necessarily incomplete. This is a first step. </span><span class="CardChar0">The acquisition of nuclear weapons increases the confidence of adopters</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in their ability to impose costs in the case of a conflict and the expectations of likely costs if war occurs by potential opponents. The key questions are whether nuclear states learn over time about how to leverage nuclear weapons and the implications of that learning, along with whether or not actions by nuclear states, over time, convey information that leads to changes in the expectations of their behavior—shifts in uncertainty—on the part of potential adversaries. Learning to Leverage? When a new state acquires nuclear weapons, how does it influence the way the state behaves and how might that change over time? Though nuclear acquisition might be orthogonal</span> to a particular dispute, it might be related to a particular security challenge, might signal revisionist aims with regard to an enduring dispute, or might signal the desire to reinforce the status quo. This section focuses on how acquiring nuclear weapons influences both the new nuclear state and potential adversaries. <span class="CardChar0">In theory, system-wide perceptions of nuclear danger could allow new nuclear states to partially skip the early Cold War learning process concerning the risks of nuclear war and enter a proliferated world more cognizant of nuclear brinksmanship</span> and bargaining <span class="CardChar0">than their predecessors. However</span>, each new nuclear state has to resolve its own particular civil-military issues surrounding operational control and plan its national strategy in light of its new capabilities. Empirical research by Sagan, Feaver, and Blair suggests that <span class="CardChar0">viewing the behavior of other states does not create the necessary tacit knowledge; there is no substitute for experience when it comes to handling a nuclear arsenal</span>, even if experience itself cannot totally prevent accidents (Blair 1993; Feaver 1992; Sagan 1993). Sagan contends that <span class="CardChar0">civil-military instability in</span> many likely <span class="CardChar0">new proliferators and pressures generated by the requirements to handle the responsibility of dealing with nuclear weapons will skew decision-making towards more offensive strategies</span> (Sagan 1995). The questions surrounding Pakistan’s nuclear command and control suggest there is no magic bullet when it comes to new nuclear powers making control and delegation decisions (Bowen and Wolvén 1999). Sagan and others focus on inexperience on the part of new nuclear states as a key behavioral driver. <span class="CardChar0">Inexperienced operators, and the bureaucratic desire to “justify” the costs spent developing nuclear weapons, combined with organizational biases that</span> may <span class="CardChar0">favor escalation to avoid decapitation, the “use it or lose it” mindset, may cause new nuclear states to adopt riskier launch postures</span>, like launch on warning, <span class="CardChar0">or at least be perceived that way</span> by other states (Blair 1993; Feaver 1992; Sagan 1995).4 <span class="CardChar0">Acquiring nuclear weapons could</span> alter state preferences and <span class="CardChar0">make them more likely to escalate disputes once they start, given their new capabilities</span>.5 <span class="CardChar0">But their general lack of experience</span> at leveraging their nuclear arsenal and effectively communicating nuclear threats <span class="CardChar0">could mean new nuclear states will be more likely to select adversaries poorly and find themselves in disputes with resolved adversaries that will reciprocate militarized challenges.</span> The “nuclear experience” logic also suggests that more experienced nuclear states should gain knowledge over time from nuclearized interactions that helps leaders effectively identify the situations in which their nuclear arsenal is likely to make a difference. Experienced nuclear states learn to select into cases where their comparative advantage, nuclear weapons, is more likely to be effective, increasing the probability that an adversary will not reciprocate. Coming from a slightly different perspective, uncertainty about the consequences of proliferation on the balance of power and the behavior of new nuclear states on the part of their potential adversaries could also shape behavior in similar ways (Schelling 1966; Blainey 1988). While a stable and credible nuclear arsenal communicates clear information about the likely costs of conflict, in the short-term nuclear proliferation is likely to increase uncertainty about the trajectory of a war, the balance of power, and the preferences of the adopter. 

**Acquisition doesn’t matter—States will be dragged into escalatory wars during the pursuit process**
**Sobek et al., ’09**
[David Sobek, Prof, PoliSci, Louisiana State U; Dennis M. Foster, Prof, Int’l Studies and PoliSci, Virginia Military Institute; Samuel B. Robison, Ph.D. Candidate in PoliSci, Louisiana State U, “Conventional Wisdom? The Effect of Nuclear Proliferation on Armed Conflict, 1945-2001,” Prepared for presentation at the 2009 Midwest Political Science Association Meeting, Chicago. 2009-05-22, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p362138_index.html]]</span>]
<span class="CardChar0">States that are exploring nuclear weapons are more at risk of being targeted in a conventional militarized dispute</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> than non-proliferating states. </span><span class="CardChar0">At the active pursuit stage, one can assume that previous efforts to dissuade proliferators have been unsuccessful and that acquisition is much more likely to become a reality. In light of the heightened sense of urgency that would accompany this state of affairs, there are compelling reasons to believe that the probability of conventional force usage is relatively great</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. First, as noted in the destructive preemption literature, </span><span class="CardChar0">we are more likely to observe efforts to militarily target existing capabilities, as “hard targets” begin to take shape during the acquisition stage.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Moreover, in line with our bargaining process expectations, it is probable that opponents will redouble their conventional military efforts to reach a favorable settlement to the issue before acquisition. Put differently, </span><span class="CardChar0">active pursuit serves as a strong signal that the “expiration date” on the current bargaining environment is nigh. Overall, since the active pursuit of weapons decreases an opponent’s estimates of the risks and costs of preemptive destruction and increases the urgency with which it seeks to obtain the bargaining benefits of any conventional military action, we predict that targeting is more likely to be observed against nuclear “pursuers” than both non-proliferators and nuclear “explorers.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Hypothesis 1b: </span><span class="CardChar0">States that are actively pursuing nuclear weapons are more at risk of being targeted in a conventional militarized dispute than exploring and non-proliferating states.</span>

===**Wake Forest - 1AC Solvency Contention**=== 

**The U.S. should scale back its Marine Presence in Okinawa by 15,000 troops to the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit—They are the only troops that can be deployed in combat situations**
**O’Hanlon, ’01**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America; How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">About half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments combined.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">But </span></span></span><span class="CardChar0">the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> By default, </span></span><span class="CardChar0">putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">In addition, the marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, which patrols the region, </span></span><span class="CardChar0">to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the United States risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy.</span></span>

**Closing Futenma is the test case for a truly equal alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**Van Wolferen, Professor @ U Amsterdam, ’10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. </span><span class="CardChar0">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. </span><span class="CardChar0">The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including Washington, </span><span class="CardChar0">have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but </span><span class="CardChar0">from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> George W. </span><span class="CardChar0">Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. </span><span class="CardChar0">People speak automatically about the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. </span><span class="CardChar0">But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. </span><span class="CardChar0">And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. </span>

**That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and “real” U.S.-Japan defense relationship</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. </span><span class="CardChar0">The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor—not the ceiling—for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan’s prohibition against collective self defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. </span><span class="CardChar0">But Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model. </span>


**Only closing Futenma can reorient the Alliance to deal with pressing security matters**
**O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, ’10**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Window on Washington / Putting 1 Okinawa air base in perspective,” February 3rd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100203dy01.htm]]</span>] AP 
<span class="CardChar0">For 15 years, the two largest economies on Earth and two of the world's top military powers have spent much of their alliance management time discussing the fate of one airfield, the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station on the island of Okinawa. This is a poor preoccupation for the allies given the other, huge issues that confront the two countries--dealing with nuclear North Korea, the rise of China, the global problem of Islamic extremism, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many other matters such as recovery from the global recession and mitigation of the global warming threat. It is time to move beyond it. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Various efforts have been made to propose ways to relocate the base in the past. Of course as we all know, it was to go to another part of the main Okinawa Island, given the current facility's location in the heart of Ginowan City and the associated problems of noise, risk of accident, and interference with local economic development strategies. The arrival of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama in office, just as a deal finally seemed to be coming together, and now a mayoral election on Okinawa in the jurisdiction that was to host the new base have thrown the latest monkey wrench into the mix. Hatoyama's reluctance pits him against not only the Liberal Democratic Party, but the Japanese bureaucrats who would implement the deal, and the United States--which has said its entire willingness to relocate half of its marines from Okinawa to Guam is contingent on Hatoyama accepting what other parties saw as a done deal. There are arguments on all sides of this issue. </span><span class="CardChar0">Supporters of the proposal to relocate the base on the island note that it is militarily important, economically helpful to Okinawa, which lacks a strong alternative economy, and diplomatically sound as a reasonable and long-sought compromise to the interests of the United States, Japan in general, and Okinawans in particular. But Hatoyama points to the fact that tiny Okinawa continues to host more than half of all U.S. military forces based in Japan, and that its people have been continually conflicted about this sometimes burdensome presence for decades. Some Okinawans worry about the environmental effects of the proposed new airfield site on local sea life; others seek to minimize their island's future economic dependence on the American military. Along with </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">George Washington University professor and Japan expert </span><span class="CardChar0">Mike Mochizuki, I have long argued that the Kadena Air Force Base on Okinawa is much more militarily important than Futenma, given its likely role in possible conflicts in Korea, the Taiwan Strait or elsewhere as well as its role as a hub in the American global military base network. Preserving local political support for Kadena is therefore much more impotant than holding onto Futenma or its successor. Our analyses suggest that a modest number of helicopter and fixed-wing flights can be handled at Kadena, moreover, for day-to-day marine operations. Just as we make pragmatic decisions in other parts of the world</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including the broader Middle East and Korea, </span><span class="CardChar0">about when to relocate our forces for the greater good of an alliance, we can factor local sensitivities into this issue as well. Moreover, delays in making a decision on relocation, while frustrating for those working on the problem, do not prevent the United States from ongoing use of Futenma as well as other facilities on Okinawa in the meantime. Provided that the United States could improve its contingency access to other airfields on Okinawa for use in a possible crisis or war, the United States could make do without Futenma or a substitute. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">However it makes no sense to keep more than 15,000 marines on Okinawa without a dedicated airfield, so in this event, Japan should follow through on its commitment to help finance a major move of many marines from Okinawa to Guam, including an alternative airfield there. Japan only has to spend 1 percent of its gross domestic product on its military, whereas the United States spends 4 to 5 percent and bears a far higher burden in terms of actual combat operations, in an alliance that suits both their purposes but offers Japan the better bargain at the moment on balance. Using commercial or Japanese military airfields in a crisis or war is allowed under the 1996 and 1997 agreements between Tokyo and Washington governing base use in Japan; prestationing of some supplies and engineering equipment on these other airfields could go a long ways toward mitigating the downsides of any loss of a permanent air station. As such, </span><span class="CardChar0">Prime Minister Hatoyama is right not to feel streamrolled by the arguments of defense professionals and establishment figures that Futenma or its successor are militarily crucial to the future of the alliance. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">However, Hatoyama has another challenge--to avoid using the Okinawa issue as a way to show his distance from LDP governments and prove his mettle as a reformer. </span><span class="CardChar0">One must not exaggerate the inconvenience or insult to Okinawans from the existing plan for relocating the airfield, which as noted reflects 15 years of negotiations that attempted to factor Okinawan interests into the proposed solution. And at a time when many Western nations led by the United States--but notably not including Japan--are asking their soldiers to risk their lives on global military operations, it is important not to exaggerate the degree to which the Okinawans are being asked to sacrifice disproportionately. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">So what it comes down to is this: Prime Minister Hatoyama, as the sovereign leader of a sovereign state, has every right to rethink previous commitments of his country, just as he already has in replacing Japan's Indian Ocean resupply operations for U.S. Navy ships there with a larger aid package for Afghanistan. But that latter policy suggests the way forward here, too: if Hatoyama is to walk away unilaterally from a deal that others in Japan and the United States have worked hard to create, he needs to do something real, and big, and historic instead. Perhaps it would be best if Japan did a little less to please Americans on the issue of bases and host nation military support--provided that it do more in another way. Providing substantial numbers of Japanese peacekeeping troops for Sudan and Congo, as part of the ongoing U.N. missions in those places, comes to mind as a good example of possible contributions consistent with Japanese political sensibilities and with the proper role of a great power on the world stage. </span><span class="CardChar0">Moving toward a true alliance in this way could do much to not only ease the pain over an Okinawa base disagreement, but transcend it as well, and get what Ambassador Mike Mansfield called "the world's most important bilateral relationship" two decades ago. If Mansfield's words are to remain true, or even partly true, today, we need to lift our sights above bickering over bases and put strategy and the world's real problems back at the center of our alliance. </span>

**The dispute over Futenma is the key obstacle to a durable alliance—removing the base is key to make the alliance politically sustainable**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">The reduction of Marines from about 18,000 to 11,000 on Okinawa seeks to quell the political controversy that has surrounded the presence of U.S. forces in the southernmost part of Japan for years. Public outcry against the bases has continued since the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1995 </span><span class="CardChar0">rape of a Japanese schoolgirl by</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> an </span><span class="CardChar0">American serviceman, and was renewed after a U.S. military helicopter crashed into a crowed university campus in 2004.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Though constituting less than 1% of Japan’s land mass, Okinawa currently hosts 65% of the total U.S. forces in Japan. Okinawan politicians, along with the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, have called for a renegotiation of the Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) and a reduction in U.S. troop strength. The U.S. and central Japanese governments have opposed revising the SOFA, but </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan has increasingly pushed the U.S. to alleviate the burden of its military presence in Okinawa.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">9 </span><span class="CardChar0">The DPRI review identified friction between the U.S. forces stationed in Okinawa and the local population as a key obstacle to a durable alliance. In addition to the 1995 rape conviction, complaints about noise pollution from the air bases and concern about safety issues after the crash of a helicopter in August 2004 convinced alliance managers that the burden on Okinawa’s urban areas needed to be reduced in order to make the alliance more politically sustainable. As part of the realignment of U.S. bases, U.S. officials agreed to move most aircraft and crews constituting the Marine Air Station at Futenma</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (a highly populated area) </span><span class="CardChar0">to expanded facilities at Camp Schwab, located in a less-congested area of Okinawa. The challenge of replacing Futenma had dogged alliance managers for years</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: since 1996, both sides had worked to implement the Special Action Committee on Okinawa (SACO) Report, which called for the return of 12,000 acres of land to the Japanese, provided that appropriate replacement facilities were arranged. </span><span class="CardChar0">In addition to the Futenma agreement, the United States agreed to relocate the Okinawa-based III Marine Expeditionary Force</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (III MEF), which includes 8,000 U.S. personnel and their dependents, </span><span class="CardChar0">to new facilities in Guam.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In return, Tokyo promised to pay $6.09 billion of the $10.27 billion estimated costs associated with the move. </span><span class="CardChar0">With the DPRI review and the revitalized alliance, new momentum led to a tentative agreement in 2006. However, implementation of the agreement has been slow and reflects the long-standing struggle between the Okinawan and central Tokyo governments. Public opposition and cost overruns threaten to further stall the Futenma relocation plan.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nevertheless, some progress has been made in the Guam relocation initiative. In February 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Japanese Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone signed a new agreement on implementing the Guam relocation plans by 2014. </span>

**Closing Futenma key to transform the alliance and address security challenges in the region**
**Klingner, ’09**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in the words of one U.S. official, </span><span class="CardChar0">"sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. </span><span class="CardChar0">Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges. </span>

**The U.S. should start refashioning the alliance by closing Futenma. Allows for Japan to maintain regional stability—The Marines are not needed.**
**Bandow, ’10**
[Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow @ The Cato Institute, Former Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus the U.S. reliance on Okinawa. Lieutenant General Keith Stalder, the Marine Corps Pacific commander, said the island deployment is "the perfect model" for the alliance's objectives of "deterring, defending and defeating potential adversaries." </span><span class="CardChar0">For years the most obvious target of the American forces was North Korea, with the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(MEF) </span><span class="CardChar0">expected to reinforce the Republic of Korea in the event of war. Yet the ROK is both financially and manpower rich. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">More recently some Americans have talked about deploying the MEF to seize Pyongyang's nuclear weapons in the event of a North Korean collapse. Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission. </span><span class="CardChar0">Checking China is next on the potential Okinawa mission list. However, no one expects the United States to launch a ground invasion of the People's Republic of China irrespective of the future course of events. Thus, the MEF wouldn't be very useful in any conflict. In any case, a stronger Japanese military </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">— which already possesses potent capabilities — </span><span class="CardChar0">would be a far better mechanism for encouraging responsible Chinese development. There's also the kitchen sink argument: the Marines are to maintain regional "stability." Pentagon officials draw expanding circles around Okinawa to illustrate potential areas of operation. The mind boggles, however. Should U.S. troops be sent to resolve</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, say, the long-running Burmese guerrilla war in that nation's east, a flare-up of secessionist sentiment in Indonesia, violent opposition to Fiji's military dictator, or </span><span class="CardChar0">border skirmishes </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">between Cambodia and Thailand? </span><span class="CardChar0">It’s hard to imagine any reason for Washington to jump into any local conflict. America's presumption should be noninvolvement rather than intervention in other nations' wars. Making fewer promises to intervene would allow the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to reduce the number of military personnel and overseas bases. A good place to start in cutting international installations would be Okinawa. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">America's post-Cold War dominance is coming to an end. Michael Schuman argued in Time: "Anyone who thinks the balance of power in Asia is not changing — and with it, the strength of the U.S., even among its old allies — hasn't been there lately." </span><span class="CardChar0">Many analysts nevertheless want the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to attempt to maintain its unnatural dominance. Rather than accommodate a more powerful China, they want America to contain a wealthier and more influential Beijing. Rather than expect its allies to defend themselves and promote regional stability, they want Washington to keep its friends dependent. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">To coin a phrase, it's time for a change. </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. intransigence over Okinawa has badly roiled the bilateral relationship. But even a more flexible basing policy would not be enough. Washington is risking the lives and wasting the money of the American people to defend other populous and prosperous states. Washington should close Futenma — as a start to refashioning the alliance with Japan. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than a unilateral promise by the United States to defend Japan, the relationship should become one of equals working together on issues of mutual interest. </span><span class="CardChar0">Responsibility for protecting Japan should become that of Japan. </span>

**Restructuring the Alliance key to assertive Japanese foreign policy and regional stability—Europe proves.**
**Ikenberry & Kupchan, ’10**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. officials have reacted with </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">considerable </span><span class="CardChar0">discomfort to the more independent </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and assertive </span><span class="CardChar0">policies of the new Japanese government. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span class="CardChar0">Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President </span><span class="CardChar0">Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in November that </span><span class="CardChar0">the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deputy Secretary of State James </span><span class="CardChar0">Steinberg </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">last week </span><span class="CardChar0">welcomed the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the </span><span class="CardChar0">opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prime Minister Yukio </span><span class="CardChar0">Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--</span><span class="CardChar0">it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">On the contrary, </span><span class="CardChar0">it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, </span><span class="CardChar0">Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. </span><span class="CardChar0">Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, not Washington. </span><span class="CardChar0">Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. </span><span class="CardChar0">Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in 2003, </span><span class="CardChar0">and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but </span><span class="CardChar0">ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. </span>

**Assertive Japanese foreign policy key to sustainable multilateral peace in Asia**
**Sukma, ’10**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. </span><span class="CardChar0">Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> further </span><span class="CardChar0">undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, </span><span class="CardChar0">East Asia has</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> now </span><span class="CardChar0">become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. </span><span class="CardChar0">As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, small and big. I, for one, believe that </span><span class="CardChar0">some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community. The role that Japan has played in Southeast Asia — an important component of East Asia’s stability and security — has helped the region flourish economically, which in turn contributes to peace and stability in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Southeast Asian states wish to see Japan, under the new administration led by Prime Minister Kan, to succeed. </span><span class="CardChar0">Southeast Asian states, and also East Asia as a whole, needs a strong partnership with Japan to ensure that the 21st century is indeed an Asian century.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Indonesia is no exception. Our relationship with Japan will continue to occupy an important place in our foreign policy. Japan is the largest trading partner and investor in Indonesia. Japan has been playing an important role in our economic development and is a fellow democracy with whom we share many values and norms. </span>

===Wake Forest - 2AC - A2: T - Substantial=== 

**2. Counter-interpretation—**
**A. Substantially must be given meaning contextually—it has no fixed meaning**
**Devinsky, 02** (Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm) 
In reversing a summary judgment of invalidity, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit found that the district court, by failing to look beyond the intrinsic claim construction evidence to consider what a person of skill in the art would understand in a "technologic context," erroneously concluded the term "substantially" made a claim fatally indefinite. Verve, LLC v. Crane Cams, Inc., Case No. 01-1417 (Fed. Cir. November 14, 2002). The patent in suit related to an improved push rod for an internal combustion engine. The patent claims a hollow push rod whose overall diameter is larger at the middle than at the ends and has "substantially constant wall thickness" throughout the rod and rounded seats at the tips. The district court found that the expression "substantially constant wall thickness" was not supported in the specification and prosecution history by a sufficiently clear definition of "substantially" and was, therefore, indefinite. The district court recognized that the use of the term "substantially" may be definite in some cases but ruled that in this case it was indefinite because it was not further defined. The Federal Circuit reversed, concluding that the district court erred in requiring that the meaning of the term "substantially" in a particular "technologic context" be found solely in intrinsic evidence: "While reference to intrinsic evidence is primary in interpreting claims, the criterion is the meaning of words as they would be understood by persons in the field of the invention." Thus, the Federal Circuit instructed that "resolution of any ambiguity arising from the claims and specification may be aided by extrinsic evidence of usage and meaning of a term in the context of the invention." The Federal Circuit remanded the case to the district court with instruction that "[t]he question is not whether the word 'substantially' has a fixed meaning as applied to 'constant wall thickness,' but how the phrase would be understood by persons experienced in this field of mechanics, upon reading the patent documents."

**B. The plan is a substantial reduction in US presence—military officials cofirm**
**Consulate General of the United States, ’05** November 22, Thomas G. Reich, “Consul General Speaks to Ryukyu Shimpo on DPRI,” http://naha.usconsulate.gov/wwwh-interview20051122.html) 
Question: How would you assess the interim report on US Forces Japan [USFJ] Realignment? CG Reich: This will lead to a substantial reduction of the base burden in Okinawa. It will make possible a faster return of the Futenma air station than the SACO [Japan-US Special Action Committee on Okinawa] report, and (the reduction of 7,000 marines) will mean the reduction of 10,000 Americans. It is also possible that most of the bases south of Kadena Air Base will be returned. Question: Why would this mean burden reduction? CG Reich: The Futenma base will be moved from an area where 80,000 live to one where only less than 2,000 reside. You cannot say this is not burden reduction. If the return of the base is realized, a military base that is located in a densely-populated area will be moved to the north, where there is a small population, and into a military base, too. This will be very beneficial for Okinawa. 

**C. Quantifiable definitions of substantially are arbitrary—**
**– 20%**
**Magee v. Dir 02** (Magee v. Dir., 80 Ark. App. 162., lexis) 
The general rule is that a substantial pay reduction gives an employee good cause for quitting. Yet, there is no set percentage or bright-line rule that makes a reduction in pay "substantial." The weight of authority, however, appears to be that a reduction of over 20 percent is so substantial as to compel an employee to quit a job and have good cause to do so, but a reduction of less than 20 percent is not. 

**– 33%**
Céline **Pajon**, junior research fellow in the Centre Asie Ifri, “Céline Pajon is junior research fellow in the Centre Asie Ifri. June **2010**"Understanding the Issue of U.S. Military Bases in Okinawa", p. 12
The Global Posture Review of 2004 therefore announced that the troops levels would not be cut in Japan, while South Korea would benefit from a substantial reduction of forces (a redeployment of 12,500 out of 37,500) 

**4. Counter-interpretation—Substantially is 25%**
**DOD 5/12/2003**, Department of Defense, Department of Defense Instruction SUBJECT: Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, N UMBER 5000.2 cp 
E9.4.3. Additional Funding Considerations. The DoD Components shall not terminate or substantially reduce participation in international cooperative ACAT ID programs under signed international agreements without USD(AT&L) approval; or in international cooperative ACAT IAM programs without ASD(C3I) approval. A DoD Component may not terminate or substantially reduce U.S. participation in an international cooperative program until after providing notification to the USD(AT&L) or the ASD(C3I). As a result of that notification, the USD(AT&L) or the ASD(C3I) may require the DoD Component to continue to provide some or all of the funding for that program in order to minimize the impact on the international cooperative program. Substantial reduction is defined as a funding or quantity decrease of 25 percent or more in the total funding or quantities in the latest President's Budget for that portion of the international cooperative program funded by the DoD Component seeking the termination or reduced participation.

===Wake Forest - 2AC - A2: Obama Good DA - Link Wall=== 

**Winners Win—political capital is renewable—legislative victories build up more political capital**
**Singer, 3/3—Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law**
(Jonathon, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital,” 3/3/2009, http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428)
Despite the country's struggling economy and vocal opposition to some of his policies, President Obama's favorability rating is at an all-time high. Two-thirds feel hopeful about his leadership and six in 10 approve of the job he's doing in the White House. "What is amazing here is how much political capital Obama has spent in the first six weeks," said Democratic pollster Peter D. Hart, who conducted this survey with Republican pollster Bill McInturff. "And against that, he stands at the end of this six weeks with as much or more capital in the bank." Peter Hart gets at a key point. Some believe that political capital is finite, that it can be used up. To an extent that's true. But it's important to note, too, that political capital can be regenerated -->Washington, 56 percent place the onus on the Bush administration and another 41 percent place it on Congressional Republicans. Yet just 24 percent blame Congressional Democrats, and a mere 11 percent blame the Obama administration. So at this point, with President Obama seemingly benefiting from his ambitious actions and the Republicans sinking further and further as a result of their knee-jerked opposition to that agenda, there appears to be no reason not to push forward on anything from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq. 

**Their evidence exaggerates the role of political capital—statistically legislative success has nothing to do with presidential influence**
**Dickinson, 09**—professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)
What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” designed to measure how many times a president’s preferred piece of legislation, or nominee to the executive branch or the courts, is approved by Congress. That is, how many pieces of legislation that the president supports actually pass Congress? How often do members of Congress vote with the president’s preferences? How often is a president’s policy position supported by roll call outcomes? These measures, however, are a misleading gauge of presidential power—they are a better indicator of congressional power. This is because how members of Congress vote on a nominee or legislative item is rarely influenced by anything a president does. Although journalists (and political scientists) often focus on the legislative “endgame” to gauge presidential influence—will the President swing enough votes to get his preferred legislation enacted?—this mistakes an outcome with actual evidence of presidential influence. Once we control for other factors—a member of Congress’ ideological and partisan leanings, the political leanings of her constituency, whether she’s up for reelection or not—we can usually predict how she will vote without needing to know much of anything about what the president wants. (I am ignoring the importance of a president’s veto power for the moment.) Despite the much publicized and celebrated instances of presidential arm-twisting during the legislative endgame, then, most legislative outcomes don’t depend on presidential lobbying. But this is not to say that presidents lack influence. Instead, the primary means by which presidents influence what Congress does is through their ability to determine the alternatives from which Congress must choose. That is, presidential power is largely an exercise in agenda-setting—not arm-twisting. And we see this in the Sotomayer nomination. Barring a major scandal, she will almost certainly be confirmed to the Supreme Court whether Obama spends the confirmation hearings calling every Senator or instead spends the next few weeks ignoring the Senate debate in order to play Halo III on his Xbox. That is, how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. 

**[___] No link—foreign issues don’t affect Obama’s ability to pass domestic bills__**
__**Edwards 9**—Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M University, holds the George and Julia Blucher Jordan Chair in Presidential Studies and has served as the Olin Professor of American Government at Oxford (George, “The Strategic President”, Printed by the Princeton University Press, pg. 179-180)__
__Did George W. Bush's extraordinarily high approval ratings following the terrorist attacks provide him a significant political resource in his attempts to obtain congressional support for his policies? Did the patriotic response to the attacks help him to mobilize the public on behalf of his programs? The president certainly viewed public support as a potential advantage - and was aware of its ephemeral nature, declaring, "It is important to move as quickly as you can in order to spend whatever capital you have as quickly as possible."40 Where the public supported his policies-on fighting the war on terrorism abroad, on investigating and prosecuting terrorism at home, and in reorganizing the government to enhance domestic security-the president ultimately won most of what he sought. Passing legislation was more difficult on the divisive domestic issues that remained on Congress's agenda, including health care, environmental protection, energy, the economy, government support for faith-based social programs, corporate malfeasance, judicial nominees, and taxes. The politics of the war on terrorism did not fundamentally alter the consideration of these issues, which continued to divide the public and their representatives in Congress as they had before. The inevitable differences between the parties emerged, exacerbated by the narrow majorities in each chamber and the jockeying for advantage in the midterm elections. The president was not able to turn public support for the war on terrorism into leverage for obtaining the passage of his domestic initiatives.__

__**[**__**_] Obama’s political capital is resilient**
**Melber, staff writer and political science bachelor, 08**
(Ari Melber, staff writer and political science bachelor, 11/08, http://www.thenation.com/blogs/notion/382337)
Because now, Obama's team wants everyone to know. The massive list of energized activists is the biggest stick Obama will carry in Washington. It enables direct communication at a remarkable scale. The next President can instantly address 16 percent of his national supporters, based on the popular vote. To put it another way, the list dwarfs the audience of all the nightly cable news shows combined. So even after the gauzy honeymoon talk fades, when people start second-guessing how much "political capital" Obama really has, there will be this resilient network of people committed to enacting the Obama agenda. In a policy fight with Congress -- or a message battle with the press -- these are the people that will take action to get Obama's back. They will call their neighbors, or their members of Congress. They'll knock on doors, or storm local meetings. They'll write letters to the editor or, naturally, email and prod their networks. They can also hold Obama accountable, of course, by using the same networked technology to pressure the new administration. Peter Daou, a web strategist and former adviser to Hillary Clinton's campaign, raised that prospect in the article 

===Wake Forest - 2AC - A2: Obama Good DA - START=== 

**START doesn’t solve**
**A. Not enough reductions and empirics**
**Kagan 7/30—senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and adjunct professor of history at Georgetown University** (7/30/2010, Robert, “New START: Too modest to merit partisan bickering”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/29/AR2010072904902.html) MGM
The proposed cuts in nuclear arsenals are modest. The START I agreement cut deployed strategic nuclear weapons on both sides roughly 50 percent, from between 10,000 and 12,000 down to 6,000. The never-ratified (but generally abided-by) START II Treaty cut forces by another 50 percent, down to between 3,000 and 3,500. The 2002 Moscow Treaty made further deep cuts, bringing each side down to between 1,700 and 2,200. And New START? It would bring the number on both sides down to 1,550. This is hardly the revolution that either side claims. Take the favorite argument of many New START proponents. They insist the treaty represents a critical commitment by the nuclear superpowers to abide by the grand bargain of the Non-Proliferation Treaty: The nuclear states move toward zero in exchange for the non-nuclear states forgoing the weapons altogether. Ratification is essential, they claim, to gaining greater worldwide support for nuclear nonproliferation efforts. Really? If this causal logic existed, why wasn't this the happy result of the massive cuts in superpower arsenals from 1989 to 2002? Instead, throughout those years, Iran and North Korea, as well as Iraq, worked determinedly to build nuclear weapons, and neither India nor Pakistan felt constrained from testing their nuclear devices. It's hard to see why the smaller cuts proposed in New START should suddenly produce a global commitment to nonproliferation.

**B. Russia will cheat**
**Brookes 9** (8/31/09, Peter, Heritage Foundation, is a former deputy assistant secretary of defense, “DON'T GET SCAMMED BY RUSSIA AGAIN”, http://www.nypost.com/p/news/opinion/opedcolumnists/item_bMq6vAe17UkGwNosvttQoM)
AMERICAN and Russian teams will start another round of talks in Vienna as early as today on a new nuclear-arms-reduction pact to replace the expiring Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. Problem is Russia isn't meeting its obligations on some old arms-control agreements. It's no small matter -- but the question is: Will the Obama administration make an issue of it? Some analysts fear that, with President Obama keen for a nuke-free world, US negotiators might be willing to look the other way to reach an accord with Russia, despite a record of non-compliance with existing arms-control agreements. So what are the Russkies scamming on? Tactical nuclear weapons: President George Bush (41) and his Soviet/Russian counterparts, Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin, adopted the Presidential Nuclear Initiatives (PNI) to dramatically reduce tactical nuke arsenals. Earlier this year, a congressional panel, the Strategic Posture Commission, reported that Russia is "no longer in compliance with its PNI commitments" -- leaving Moscow with what some say could be a 10:1 advantage in "battlefield" nukes. Nuke testing: America, Russia and others have undertaken an informal moratorium on nuclear-weapons tests based on the 1996 Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, which President Bill Clinton signed but the Senate never ratified. But an SPC member warned recently that Russian "nuclear labs have been growing, their budgets have been increasing and they continue an active underground test program at Novaya Zemlya, which includes the release of low levels of nuclear energy." This conflicts with America's no-bang, "zero-yield" standard and suggests Moscow is doing some low-yield testing that could lead to new weapons' development. (Russian doctrine puts a premium on fighting battlefield nuclear war.) Strategic arms: Even as it negotiates a new START treaty, the Kremlin is fudging on the existing one. A 2005 State Department report points to multiple Russian violations, including restrictions on inspections of its intercontinental ballistic missiles and warheads. There's more: One expert recently noted Russia is testing its SS-27 ICBM with multiple warheads. But START identifies the SS-27 as a single-warhead missile -- and permits testing/deployment only in that configuration. Proliferation: Others say Russia has been cutting corners on accepted non-proliferation standards -- notably, by helping Iran and North Korea develop ballistic missiles and nuclear know-how. This is no small matter, considering the threat to America. Indeed, the director of national intelligence sent a letter to the State Department in March 2007, stating: "We assess that individual Russian entities continue to provide assistance to Iran's ballistic-missile programs" -- which implies either Kremlin involvement in, knowledge of, or failure to intervene into these activities. Some analysts also think North Korea got Russian help in the form of key components for its April long-range-missile test. Others see Moscow's aid to the Iranian nuclear program going beyond the reactor it's building at Bushehr. Adding to fears Obama's negotiators won't bring up these issues in the Vienna talks is the tentative deal he struck with Russian president Dmitry Medvedev on dual-use strategic-delivery systems this summer, drastically cutting US subs and bombers that have conventional military roles, too. They may also throw Iran-focused, Europe-based US missile defense, which the Russkies hate, under the bus in order close a deal. Successful arms control depends on actually controlling weapons in ways that serve US national-security interests, not by merely inking new pacts for the sake of concluding a deal that sounds good. Before we rush into signing onto any more arms-control treaties, we need to get to the bottom of Russia's non-compliance with existing arms-control and non-proliferation promises. If we don't, the Russians will have little if any incentive to correctly implement any new treaty -- and every reason to find clever ways to cheat, as it looks like they're doing now, further jeopardizing our national security. 

==GDS== 

===GDS - 1AC - Inherency Contention=== 

**Contention 1—Welcome to the World**

**American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.**
**Talmadge, ’10**
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]</span>] AP
Uncertainty over a Marine base and plans to move thousands of U.S. troops to Guam are straining a post-World War II security alliance Japan and the United States set 50 years ago, but Tokyo's new leader said Tuesday he stands behind the pact. Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he sees the arrangement as a crucial means of maintaining the balance of power in Asia, where the economic and military rise of China is looming large, and vowed to stand behind it despite recent disputes with Washington. "Keeping our alliance with the United States contributes to peace in the region," Kan said in a televised question-and-answer session with other party leaders. "Stability helps the U.S.-Japan relationship, and that between China and Japan and, in turn, China and the United States." The U.S.-Japan alliance, formalized over violent protests in 1960, provides for the defense of Japan while assuring the U.S. has regional bases that serve as a significant deterrent to hostilities over the Korean Peninsula or Taiwan. Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, nearly 50,000 American troops are deployed throughout Japan. The U.S. forces include a key naval base south of Tokyo where the only permanently forward-deployed aircraft carrier has its home port; Kadena Air Base, which is one of the largest in Asia; and more than 10,000 U.S. Marines on the southern island of Okinawa. The large U.S. presence over the past five decades has allowed Japan to keep its own defense spending low, to about 1 percent of its GDP, and focus its spending elsewhere — a factor that helped it rebuild after World War II to become the world's second-largest economy. "Even though there are some small problems here and there, in the bigger sense the relationship remains strong," said Jun Iio, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. "Very few people think that it is actually necessary to make major changes in the alliance." But while the alliance is one of the strongest Washington has anywhere in the world, it has come under intense pressure lately over a plan to make sweeping reforms that would pull back roughly 8,600 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. The move was conceived in response to opposition on Okinawa to the large U.S. military presence there — more than half of the U.S. troops in Japan are on Okinawa, which was one of the bloodiest battlefields of World War II. Though welcomed by many at first, the relocation plan has led to renewed Okinawan protests over the U.S. insistence it cannot be carried out unless a new base is built on Okinawa to replace one that has been set for closing for more than a decade. A widening rift between Washington and Tokyo over the future of the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station was a major factor in the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama earlier this month. It could well plague Kan as well. Kan has vowed to build a replacement facility on Okinawa, as the U.S. demanded, but details are undecided. Implementing the agreement would need the support of the local governor, who has expressed opposition to it. Kan was scheduled to visit Okinawa on Wednesday for ceremonies marking the end of the 1945 battle there that hastened Japan's surrender. Recent tension on the Korean peninsula and China's growing military assertiveness have undoubtedly driven home the importance of the U.S. security pact with Japanese leaders. Before he stepped down, Hatoyama suggested that the March sinking of a South Korean warship, allegedly by a North Korean torpedo, contributed to his decision keep Futenma on Okinawa — reversing a campaign pledge to move it off the island. Tokyo was alarmed in April when a Chinese helicopter came within 300 feet (90 meters) of a Japanese military monitoring vessel in the vicinity of a Chinese naval exercise. That same month, Chinese ships were also spotted in international waters off Okinawa. Still, the Okinawa problem underscores an increasingly skeptical stance among some Japanese leaders toward the role of the security alliance. Though the pact was strongly supported by the staunchly pro-U.S. conservative party that ruled Japan for most of the past 60 years, the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan, which swept to office last year, have taken a more nuanced approach, saying that while close security ties with Washington remain crucial Japan needs to improve its relations with its Asian neighbors, particularly China. On Monday, Kan said he will reassure Obama when they meet at a summit this weekend that Japan-U.S. ties continue to be "the cornerstone" of Japan's diplomacy. But he added that "I want to view this relationship from a broader point of view," and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships. 

**Japanese political changes mean nothing—the new party leaders are mired in the status quo**
**Harris, ’10**
[Tobias Harris, Doctoral student in political science @ The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy,” July 16th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html]]</span>] 
For a brief moment, Naoto Kan looked like the anchor who could end Japan’s drift. Where his predecessor, Yukio Hatoyama, was a patrician dogged by corruption scandals and perceived as incapable of leading his own government, Kan came into the premiership stressing his own middle-class background. He pledged to recommit the governing Democratic Party of Japan to its ambitious agenda: reversing the country’s long decline by reforming its bureaucracy and social safety net while jump-starting the economy. Moreover, his commitment to replace an aging U.S. air base on Okinawa signaled a possible end to a dispute that had soured relations with Washington and led to Hatoyama’s resignation. A mere month later, Japan is once again mired in political confusion. In July the DPJ fell well short of a majority in the upper-house elections. It will now have to find either permanent coalition partners or, failing that, parties willing to cooperate on an issue-by-issue basis. Kan has survived his party’s defeat but faces a party leadership election in September that looks certain to be contentious. The result is that the DPJ government will have little choice but to moderate its goals. Accordingly, for U.S. policymakers interested in strengthening the relationship often described as “the cornerstone of peace and security” in East Asia, Japan’s domestic political environment will continue to serve as an obstacle. For the foreseeable future, no government will be in a position to advance major new initiatives, especially those pertaining to Japan’s security policy. And the sad reality is that even if the DPJ had won a convincing victory, Washington’s interest in a more active security partnership—in which Japan would spend more on its armed forces, participate more in overseas operations, and perhaps even revise or reinterpret its Constitution to permit self-defense within the alliance—would continue to face serious obstacles. As the government’s fiscal situation worsens, it becomes less and less likely that Tokyo will take up an ambitious security policy agenda. Fixing the government’s finances is a key step to addressing the other pocketbook issues with which voters are concerned. It is unlikely that a government implementing controversial budget cuts and tax increases would also take up the contentious question of how it should contribute to the defense of Japan and security in East and Central Asia. Its fear would be that the public would punish leaders perceived as focused on problems far from Japanese shores as it implements policies that hurt Japanese households. Moreover, for a cash-strapped government, the status quo, in which Japan limits its defense spending while subsidizing U.S. bases in Japan, continues to suit Japan’s interests. The logic of the Yoshida doctrine—which was formulated during the early postwar period, and which called for low defense spending combined with an alliance founded on U.S. bases in Japan—remains relevant today: Japanese leaders once saw the doctrine as the key to postwar economic development, and now the same policies provide resources for shoring up Japan’s social safety net and halting economic decline. The irony, then, is that despite the DPJ’s desire for a more equal relationship with the United States, the political and economic logic of austerity suggests that Japan will likely grow even more dependent on the U.S. for its security, with the difference being that the relationship will be more fragile. For Japan, every U.S. initiative toward China will be scrutinized for signs that the U.S. is abandoning Japan in the region. Similarly, for Washington, every initiative to deepen cooperation within East Asia that excludes the U.S. will be questioned and may prompt grumbling about Japanese free-riding. In other words, these are the makings of a tumultuous decade for the alliance. What can Washington do to minimize the friction? To a certain extent, the Obama administration has already taken several steps in the right direction. Unlike its predecessor, the current administration is less wedded to Japanese military contributions and gladly accepted a sizable Japanese financial contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. When not feuding over Okinawa, the administration has made clear that it wants to work with Tokyo in areas like climate change. But the U.S. needs to be patient—especially on Okinawa. It needs to accept that in the months and years to come, anything beyond a limited military alliance focused on the defense of Japan is a nonstarter for Japan’s beleaguered politicians. 


===GDS - 1AC - Alliance Advantage - Internals=== 

**Contention 2—The Alliance**

**The Futenma issue is the test case over the equality of the alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**Van Wolferen, Professor @ U Amsterdam, ’10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments, including Washington, have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage. Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. People speak automatically about the United States and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the United States. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. 

**And, the status quo alliance is politically unsustainable—failure to resolve the crisis over Marines will collapse all public support**
**Yamaguchi, ’10**
[Noboru Yamaguchi, Visiting Scholar @ The John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies of Harvard University, Senior Defense Attache @ The Embassy of Japan in the U.S., Commanding General of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Aviation School, Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies, Vice Commandant of the JGDSF Research & Development Command, “Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,” March 17th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]</span>]
In this context, we must not forget the asymmetry in the Japan-US alliance. From the start, this has been a relationship in which Japan maintains only light military power and holds its military commitments abroad to the minimum. At the same time it provides bases for American troops, in exchange for which the United States guarantees its security. Because of this asymmetry, dissatisfaction with the other partner can easily mount on either side. The US military stands prepared to shed the blood of young Americans in the event of an emergency in Japan. Because it does not ask Japan to do the same, a sense of extreme imbalance exists on the American side with respect to the burdens to be borne in an emergency. On our side of the Pacific, Japan provides bases in exchange for the use of US military power as a deterrent. From the perspective of the Japanese people, however, what tends to stand out more prominently than the life-or-death benefits they would receive from American cooperation in an emergency that may or may not even occur is the peacetime cost of maintaining of the US bases, which are additionally a source of noise pollution, accidents, and scandals involving American soldiers. The problem of Futenma’s relocation is linked to this unbalanced nature of the bilateral alliance. The initial relocation plan offers a representative example of attempts to provide greater stability to the stationing of US forces in Japan by lightening the excessive burdens imposed on Okinawa, and hence to sustain the deterrent provided by the presence of the US military. If the Futenma issue cannot be resolved smoothly, a vicious circle working in the opposite direction could take hold. Not only would residents in the vicinity of the base fail to see a lightening of their load, but the deterrence provided by the United States could also be impaired. There is another major problem. This is that damage could be done to the efforts by both sides to lessen the alliance’s asymmetry, even if only to a limited extent. Over the past 20 years Tokyo and Washington have both worked hard to get Japan to shoulder greater responsibility for regional and global security and thereby move the alliance beyond one in which Japan merely makes bases available in exchange for help with its defense. As a result of this endeavor, Japan’s participation in international security cooperation has increased. Shortly after the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War, Japan dispatched minesweepers to the Gulf, and in recent years it has sent other units of the Self-Defense Forces to the Indian Ocean and Iraq and participated in international anti-piracy patrols off the coast of Somalia. One element of these efforts involved was the “reaffirmation of the Japan-US alliance” initiative led by Joseph Nye during his term as US assistant secretary of defense in the mid-1990s. Then, from 2004 to 2006, attention focused on the work to “transform the Japan-US alliance,” especially on plans to relocate the Futenma base and realign the US forces stationed in Japan. Among other key issues addressed were executing peacekeeping operations, extending humanitarian reconstruction assistance, and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Aiming for an Expanding Equilibrium. It is fair to say that the aim of these efforts was to correct the alliance’s distinctive asymmetry as far as possible and bring about an “expanding equilibrium.” In this light, we have now arrived at a new juncture with the birth of the Obama administration in the United States and the Hatoyama administration in Japan just as the revised security treaty has marked its fiftieth anniversary. This provides a fitting occasion for making the alliance deeper yet. When Jack Crouch, a former assistant to the US president, came to Japan in late January, he spoke of the opportunities that Japan and the United States were losing by wasting time on the Futenma issue. He said that the relocation needed to be guided to a soft landing so that discussions on improving the alliance for the future could be resumed as quickly as possible. Earlier I referred to the sense of resignation among some Americans concerned about the alliance. If their attitude prevails, there is the danger that people will opt in favor of the contracting-equilibrium option. That is, both sides could lower their expectations and scale back their responsibilities and obligations. In the background is the sense of disappointment felt by those Americans who over a period of many years devoted themselves to piloting the alliance toward an expanding equilibrium. If they have become dispirited, we Japanese must strive to regain their trust so that they resume their expanding-equilibrium activities. At the same time, we must make sure that there is no wavering on a fundamental but low-profile element of the Japan-US alliance. This involves securing deterrent power by placing the US forces stationed in Japan on a stable footing. If this is not done, Japan’s very existence as a state may be altered fundamentally. 

**This ensures political disaster that will cripple the alliance and support for our broader bases in Japan—serve as the absolute key for our power projection**
**Ennis, ’10**
[Peter Ennis, Former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, Former Research Fellow @ Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, Long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, Founder of The Oriental Economist, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” June 18th 2010, Dispatch Japan, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>] 
The exchanges of the last week can’t be dismissed as unwarranted airing of diplomatic dirty laundry. By all accounts, the dispute between Washington and Tokyo surrounding the Marine Futenma base on Okinawa exposed some deep weaknesses in the common understanding, structure, and management of the alliance. Bader and Green are deeply committed to the notion that the US-Japan alliance is the key to stability in East Asia. They believe the Obama administration handled the Futenma dispute quite well. Clemons and Sneider are also dedicated to the alliance, but fear the Obama administration’s approach to Futenma has done much more harm than good. Understanding this disagreement is critical to ensuring the US-Japan alliance regains and remains on solid footing. ROOT OF DISPUTE: Though the arguments of Bader and Green are persuasive at points, I believe the critiques leveled by Clemons and Sneider are on the mark. The core of the problem is that much of Washington’s “Japan Hand” community, and the broader community of foreign policy “generalists,” did not appreciate or want to engage the scope and depth of change in Japan represented by the coming to power of the Democratic Party (DPJ). One of America’s preeminent experts on Japanese history and security policy, Kenneth Pyle of the University of Washington, recently wrote that the Futenma dispute reflected an inevitable yearning in Japan for “a new equilibrium for the alliance.” For decades, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP10/AP10_B_JapanRT.pdf|he wrote]]</span>, the alliance had essentially made Japan “a military satellite, some would even say a client state,” of the United States. This unnatural arrangement was finally giving way to pent up desires for greater “autonomy and self mastery.” The “degree of US domination in the relationship has been so extreme,” Pyle wrote, that “a recalibration of the alliance was bound to happen.” Rather than accepting the inevitable, and seeking to shape the changes in Japan to be consistent with alliance goals, the halls of power in Washington became filled with the disturbing sentiment that DPJ leaders were basically unwanted and unworthy interlopers in an otherwise cozy and fruitful bilateral arrangement. The “word” spread that the DPJ was somehow anti-Alliance, was tilting toward China, and was questioning the very cornerstone of the alliance—access to bases, in exchange for American defense of Japan. Diplomatic snubs -- big and small -- hit DPJ leaders from all sides, exacerbating an impression that Hatoyama and his party were unwilling or unable to manage the all-important American alliance. This may not have caused Hatoyama’s demise, but it certainly contributed. BEFORE THE BEGINNING: The problem was evident even before Hatoyama and the DPJ came to power, in September 2009. Toward the end of 2007, after the DPJ had won a huge victory in Upper House elections, legislation was about to expire authorizing the refueling of US and allied naval vessels in the Indian Ocean by Japan’s Maritime Self Defense Forces. The Diet initially adopted the legislation in the wake of 9-11 to aid anti-Taliban and anti-Al Qaeda operations in Afghanistan. In the wake of the US invasion of Iraq, which many leaders in the then-ruling Liberal Democratic Party and the DPJ privately opposed, support for the refueling operations waned. It was common knowledge that the refueling was almost entirely symbolic, with no real operational value. Moreover, even ardently pro-US DPJ legislators were upset by signs that some oil provided to American naval vessels had been utilized for operations around Iraq. Much like in Europe, the Japanese public deeply opposed the US invasion of Iraq, and even then-Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda from the traditional US ally, the LDP, barely kept quiet his lack of enthusiasm for continuing the refueling operations. But the Bush administration, backed by a surprisingly diverse group of American specialists on Japan, barely contained its contempt for the DPJ opposition, and put enormous pressure on Fukuda to force through the refueling authorization. One of the strongest critics of the DPJ at that time was Mike Green, who co-wrote an op-ed for Asahi Shimbun pressing for reauthorization. The co-writer was Kurt Campbell, who was then advising Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, and who is now the State Department’s chief Asia specialist. Support for the Indian Ocean refueling operations became a litmus test for support of the alliance, even though the DPJ’s and other opposition to reauthorization was deeply rooted in the same kind of anger over the Iraq war that both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama had repeatedly expressed. FUTENMA, ANOTHER LITMUS TEST: By the time the Obama administration took office in early 2009, the Futenma issue was brewing as another supposed litmus test of Japan’s loyalty and commitment to the alliance. Mr. Bader cites Hillary Clinton’s visit to Japan in February 2009, her first step on foreign soil as secretary of state, as a sign of the importance Obama attached to the alliance with Japan. He doesn’t mention that Secretary Clinton’s top agenda item was to sign papers giving the go-ahead for construction of a replacement facility on Okinawa for the Marine Futenma air station. At the time, it was a virtual certainty that the DPJ would oust the LDP in elections several months later, and the DPJ had made clear its desire to have a Futenma replacement facility built outside of Okinawa, perhaps even outside of Japan. Nevertheless, without even so much as a perfunctory review of Japan policy of the sort that is common when a new administration takes office, the Obama team pushed ahead for implementation of the Futenma replacement plan, paying no discernable heed to DPJ views. Prior to her departure, Bader brought Green in to brief Secretary Clinton on Japan. Green, who was a top foreign policy advisor to Republican presidential candidate John McCain in 2008, strongly supported the 2006 plan to build the Futenma replacement on Okinawa. Bader says that US Ambassador John Roos became the point man for US policy in Tokyo. But US policy on Futenma under Obama was set long before Roos was even nominated to be ambassador, much less took up his post in Japan. Bader argued that the Hatoyama government’s questioning of the 2006 Futenma agreement “came against a backdrop of questioning of all US bases in Japan.” But there is not one statement by a Hatoyama government official that proves this assertion. Hatoyama questioned Futenma, not any other US base in Japan. But Bader’s assertion is unfortunately all-too-typical of what became common place in Washington while Hatoyama was in office. Bader asserted that Defense Secretary Bob Gates was unfairly accused of adopting a "confrontational approach to Japan during his October 2009 trip to Tokyo, citing a "leak to Japanese reporters of his comments to Foreign Minister Okada. But Gates had stated in no uncertain terms that efforts to alter the 2006 Futenma agreement would, in Bader’s words, “damage the alliance.” The “leak” Bader cites was a common-place “read out” of the meeting to the Japanese press. Gates left no doubt in his public statements and other gestures about the inflexible nature of his message. American journalists reported Gates’s demeanor as unmistakable. More than any other event, Gates's uncharacteristically gruff and haughty performance during his October visit to Tokyo set the tone for the entire way the Obama administration dealt with the Hatoyama government. Bader claims the Administration did not reject Hatoyama’s proposal to talk about Futenma. Leaving aside some minor gestures of willingness to discuss burden reduction on Okinawa, the administration never budged from its fundamental, highly dubious insistence that the 2006 Futenma replacement plan was an absolutely critical, irreplaceable part of the overall US strategic posture in East Asia. He asserts that “the President always believed that US-Japan relations are much larger than a single base issue.” That simply doesn’t square with the Administration’s unrelenting stance that, in effect, any questioning of the need for a Futenma replacement facility on Okinawa amounted to disloyalty to the alliance. Administration spokesmen repeatedly grouped Futenma in with all other US facilities in Japan, including the giant Kadena US Air Force Base—home to the largest US air wing in the world, and the vital Yokosuka naval facility, home to the US 7th Fleet—the only US aircraft carrier group the US Navy home ports abroad. These two facilities are the absolute key to the US forward-deployed ability to project power in East Asia, along with the 8thArmy and related air and sea units in South Korea, and the huge air, Marine, and naval buildup underway on Guam. Given this vast array of indispensable US power projection capabilities in the region, it was perfectly reasonable to ask just why the Futenma replacement facility is so vital. The US is already redeploying 8,000 ground troops out of South Korea, has moved many units further south to make them into a more flexible regional force, and has turned over to South Korea operational control of its own armed forces. Yet the current structure of the Marine presence on Okinawa remained curiously beyond the realm of acceptable discussion, at the insistence of Obama administration officials. Throughout the entire discussion, the Administration has painfully been unable to answer a simple question: Just what indispensable contribution to deterrence in East Asia do the Marines on Okinawa make that they could not make if based elsewhere? The Marines are not indispensable quelling any potential North Korean assault on the South. ROK ground forces alone number more than the combined personnel of the US Army and US Marine Corps, worldwide. The main US role in a Korean Peninsula contingency would be air and naval, largely based out of Kadena and Yokosuka. The job of seizing North Korean ports to facilitate humanitarian relief operations in a crisis, or the job of locating and securing North Korean nuclear materials, could all be conducted by Marines brought into Japan for those purposes, utilizing prepositioned supplies and equipment located on bases agreed to by Tokyo. As it is, a good number of the US Marines nominally based on Okinawa for deterrence in East Asia are often deployed elsewhere, including Afghanistan. Nor are the Marines on Okinawa to somehow deter China, a job done most effectively, once again, by the US air and naval forces based at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Are the US Marines vital to stability in East Asia? Absolutely. But nowhere is it written in strategic stone that they have to be based on Okinawa. The need for the Henoko project to replace Futenma largely boils down to one factor: The Marines want to introduce to Okinawa in the coming years the V-22 Osprey, a tiltrotor aircraft capable of both vertical and conventional takeoffs and landings. Why is a new runway needed at Henoko, designated site for the Futenma replacement facility, if the Osprey has vertical capability? Because the aircraft is notoriously unreliable, and the Marines say they need a runway in the event the shift from turboprop to helicopter capability fails. Ironically, the State Department’s Kurt Campbell, who fought so hard for the Futenma project in recent months, was strongly opposed to further development of the Osprey while he worked at the Pentagon over a decade ago. Beyond the Osprey requirements, the Marines also defend their status on Okinawa because of the heavy funding provided by Japan as base support. All things being equal, Okinawa is a highly advantageous location for the US Marines to be based. But all things are not equal, given that 20% of the entirety of Okinawa island’s land mass is taken up by US military facilities. The heavy concentration on Okinawa of US Forces in Japan is a political disaster just waiting to happen. Anyone truly interested in the political sustainability of vital US air and naval bases in Japan should be worried about the pent-up animosity all-too-evident on Okinawa. Indeed, while American officials rightly point to high levels of public support in Japan for the Japan-US alliance, they are less apt to point to the large majority of Japanese—and not just Okinawa residents—who oppose construction of a Futenma replacement facility on the island. Mike Green in his CSIS memorandum argues that Hatoyama gratuitously raised expectations among Okinawans that the Futenma replacement facility might not be built, immensely complicating potential implementation of the bilateral accord announced on May 28. Actually, all Hatoyama did was give voice to resentments that have long been simmering on Okinawa. Bader and others have argued that the current tensions on the Korean Peninsula, and recent incidents of Chinese helicopter harassment of Japanese naval vessels, served to push the Hatoyama government to finally agree to construction of a Futenma replacement facility at Henoko. But Japanese officials close to Hatoyama deny this, and US officials do not provide any evidence to support their assertion. Indeed, Hatoyama from his first days in office made sure to align his government with that of South Korea. Prior to a trilateral summit of the leaders of Japan, South Korea, and China in Beijing last October, Hatoyama first visited Seoul. His intention was to balance a visit to Pyongyang just days before by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao. The DPJ did not need to be “educated” on the dangers posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, nor by China’s territorial designs on natural gas reserves in the East China Sea. MOVING FORWARD: So where do things stand now? Bader insists that the DPJ has matured in its understanding of security issues, thereby placing the Alliance of a stronger footing. In reality, the danger is very real that US officials will badly misread the national sentiments in Japan. As it is, many top DPJ leaders feel they had their collective arms twisted to accept the 2006 Futenma plan, and the experience has left a bitter taste. There is anger in Japan, of course, over the haphazard, slipshod fashion with which Hatoyama managed the Futenma issue. But there is intense awareness of the rumors, innuendo, faulty accusations, and dodgy mistreatment from Washington that further sullied Hatoyama’s stature. For now, Prime Minister Naoto Kan is saying he will back the Futenma replacement plan, but that is largely to keep the Obama administration at bay. There is little support inside the DPJ for spending any political capital on forcing the Futenma plan on to Okinawans. The Kan government, if anything, is somewhat more liberal on security issues than was Hatoyama. Given the political calendar in Tokyo, it will be very difficult to meet the August deadline for finalizing technical details for the planned Henoko facility. Upper House elections will take place in late July, followed by a DPJ presidential contest in September, and later by a critical vote for governor of Okinawa. Without the governor’s support, Kan could be forced to push the plan through with a “special measures law.” Mike Green acknowledges that such high stakes political drama could cause the DPJ to split. That raises the question of whether the US would use its weight to push aside yet another prime minister for the sake of the Henoko project. That’s not a pretty picture. It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes. Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals. Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The Obama administration shows no signs of seeing the issue this way, however, which unfortunately sets the stage down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo. 

**Even if the alliance doesn’t formally collapse—the Futenma controversy will prevent focus on regional security issues**
**Klingner, ’09**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]</span>] AP
The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has, in the words of one U.S. official, "sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one. The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges. 

**The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan—It’s key to Asian stability.**
**Barkdoll, ’06**
[Timothy Barkdoll, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” March 15th 2006, USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College]
The security alliance has served as the cornerstone of U.S.-Japan diplomatic relations for over five decades and the strategic location of U.S. forces in Japan is critical to protecting shared economic, diplomatic, and political interests in the Asia-Pacific region. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the United States and Japan to engage in the reconfiguration of the alliance to produce a more robust, flexible, and symmetric bilateral security arrangement that is capable of securing common national interests well into the 21st Century. Recent proposals for alliance transformation, realignment of U.S. forces, and Japanese constitutional revision indicate that the United States and Japan have taken a significant leap towards securing that future. Application of the following recommendations is required to realize the successful transformation of the alliance. Implement SCC-Proposed Transformational Changes The U.S.-Japan security alliance needs to be reconfigured so that the bilateral partners participate in a more symmetric relationship. The end product of the transformation is a fully functioning alliance in which each nation assumes equal roles and balanced distribution of responsibilities in pursuit of shared national strategic interests. As new and complex security threats emerge at an ever increasing rate, the United States, Japan, and the alliance can no 22 longer afford to rely on incremental growth spurred by the latest crisis. The Japanese government currently lacks the policy mechanisms needed to execute timely and effective security cooperation with the U.S. in response to the rapidly evolving threat environment. Wholesale implementation of the proposed transformation, U.S. force structure realignments, and Japanese constitutional revision is critical in determining the future relevance of the alliance. The key to a stronger alliance is the successful execution of the transformation as proposed by the SCC. A successful transformation depends on a more robust Japanese military posture, implementation of flexible Japanese policy mechanisms to facilitate a more reliable security cooperation with the U.S., and an elevated Japanese presence in Asia-Pacific and globally. Required changes to Japan’s military posture and legislative procedures necessitate constitutional revision meeting the approval of Japan’s popular vote. Unfortunately, there is a decreasing tolerance among the Japanese people for the inconveniences associated with U.S. military presence.136 The proposed realignment of U.S. forces in Japan is intended to ease the burden of host nation support on the Japanese public and provide Tokyo the public support platform to seek constitutional revision. Following the October 2005 SCC conference, Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld summarized the U.S. perspective on these issues: Japan has the second largest economy on the face of the Earth. The people of Japan benefit greatly from the international system. Clearly Japan has an interest in the success of the international system. With an interest in the success of that system which benefits the Japanese people, it seems to me it is appropriate for Japan to find ways in the 21st Century that they can contribute to making the system successful.137 Rally Japanese Public Support Rallying Japanese public support for a more capable and proactive SDF, constitutional revision, and continued support for U.S. forces in Japan is critical to the future of the alliance. As the intolerance for inconveniences associated with host nation support has gained significant momentum in the national political arena, it is increasingly difficult for Japanese politicians to convince their constituents that they sacrifice for the benefit of Japan’s national security. 138 Therefore, it is imperative that the bilateral partners continue to work together to educate the Japanese people, especially in the cities and prefectures that host U.S. bases, that there exists an important interdependence between the alliance, the U.S. military presence in Japan, and Japan’s national interests. The message to the Japanese people must emphasize that the proposed changes and military operations are necessary for Japan’s national security and are not being considered to simply acquiesce bilateral security interests of the United States. The 23 perspective of the argument used is critical.139 For its part, as Japan struggles with remnants of its pacifist culture, antimilitarism, and growing public discontent for support of U.S. forces, the United States must respect and formally acknowledge that reexamination of Article 9 and ratification of a new constitution is a domestic issue to be decided exclusively by the people of Japan. Public support is sometimes best obtained when rhetoric is supported by real action. Proposed U.S. force structure realignment should help alleviate some Japanese concerns for noise, pollution, safety, and an expanding U.S. military footprint. However, Okinawa, as it has been since 1995, will continue to be the epicenter of domestic discontent over support provided to U.S. forces. The transfer of 7,000 Marines to Guam, further consolidation of the remaining forces, shared use of U.S. military installations with the SDF, and the return of substantial land tracts to Japanese sovereignty will do little to alleviate Okinawa’s opposition to the proposed Futenma resolution. Since the October 2005 SCC Futenma relocation plan includes the reclamation of a portion of Oura Bay, a contentious issue in the original proposal, tensions will remain high in the Okinawa prefecture. Balancing Okinawan desires with operational capabilities will prove to be a difficult task but one of critical importance considering the deterrence, crisis response, regional stability, and international security provided for by the U.S. forces forward deployed to Okinawa. Conclusion The stability of the Asia-Pacific region is of critical importance to the national interests of both Japan and the United States. This stability is now challenged by new threats associated with North Korea, Taiwan, and China. The U.S.-Japan security alliance has evolved as the cornerstone of regional stability and remains the best mechanism by which the world’s two leading economies can pursue overlapping national interests. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese governments have made remarkable progress toward reconfiguring the alliance. However, the materialization of a New Japan, one that assumes a more prominent role in its self-defense, regional stability, and global influence, along with full implementation of the transformational changes for the alliance, requires mustering popular support for an unprecedented revision of Japan’s constitution and, more specifically, Article 9. The future of the alliance will depend upon the popular vote of the Japanese people reflecting their view of how critical the Japan-U.S. security alliance is to securing Japan’s national interests. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, the Deputy Director General in the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, astutely observed that “[t]he deterrence and capabilities of the 24 alliance are not measured solely by the number of U.S. forces stationed in Japan, but by the combination of political will, local support, and capability of working closely together.”140 Japan and the United States have demonstrated the political will and an unprecedented capability to work closely together. The future strength of the alliance will therefore depend on local Japanese support for the alliance and constitutional revision—with Okinawa presenting the most significant challenge in that pursuit. 

**The U.S. should scale back the marine presence on Okinawa to just the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit—That’s necessary to prevent a backlash against all of our bases in Japan**
**O’Hanlon, ’01**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking. About half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments combined. Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs. But the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there. And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized. The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential. By default, putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises. In addition, the marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, which patrols the region, to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the United States risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands. Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use. Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy. 

===GDS - 1AC - Alliance Advantage - East Asia Scenario=== 

**__Scenario 1—East Asia__**

**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities and allows for regional interdependence—only cooperation can address all major threats**
**Rapp, Former CFR Fellow @ Tokyo’s IIPS, ’04**
[William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
This monograph began by making the assertion that the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the United States and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the United States working in close concert. There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle, in a positive manner, the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance. As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, “The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.” 207 Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region. 208 North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the United States working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication (SLOC) running through Southeast and East Asia. 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca. 212 At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo. 213 This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea. Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia. The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the United States and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region. Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the United States and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region. 

**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check**
**Ikenberry & Mastanduno, Professors @ Princeton & Dartmouth, ’03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP 
Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power within and between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment. If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies. Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors) and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, which make even defensive weapons in the region appear threatening for Chinese security. One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability. 

**Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation**
**Nye et al., Professor @ Harvard, 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>]
Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia. The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. 

**That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
If the United States can exercise leadership--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations with Japan, the two countries will be better able to realize the full potential for cooperation nurtured during the past 50 years. If the changes underway in Japan ultimately produce a stronger, more responsive political and economic system, the synergy in U.S.- Japan relations will enhance our abilities to play an engaged, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role in regional and global arenas in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor--not the ceiling--for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan's prohibition against collective self-defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation. Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. But Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model for the alliance. 

===GDS - 1AC - Alliance Advantage - Naval Power Scenario=== 

**__Scenario Two is Naval Power__**

**Failure to check opposition over Futenma spills over—prevents us from stationing nuclear powered aircraft carriers in Japan**
**Auslin, Japanese Studies Director @ AEI, ’10**
[Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]</span>]
Here's the rub: The U.S. Department of Defense has made it clear that, unless the entire 2006 realignment plan goes forward, no individual pieces will be set in motion. And it all depends on moving the Marine helicopters out of Futenma, which has long been a source of political contention between Tokyo and Washington. The Japanese government, moreover, is committed to moving its surveillance planes to Atsugi, but that move probably won’t happen if the American carrier air wing stays put. Japanese military officials worry that this year’s protests in Okinawa could have spillover effects, inspiring protesters around Atsugi to demand a reduced American presence, and possibly even agitating against the government plan to move Japanese planes there. Moreover, Iwakuni’s mayor might reject the new burden of potentially hosting the George Washington’s air wing. That, in turn, would embolden antinuclear protesters in Yokosuka, the U.S. Navy’s main base, to step up their ongoing pressure to move the nuclear-powered George Washington, the Navy’s only permanently forward deployed aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters. This worst-case scenario would be a series of simultaneous, grassroots movements against the U.S. military presence in Japan that could potentially put fatal stress on the bilateral security alliance and effectively isolate Japan militarily in the western Pacific. Given Mr. Hatoyama’s fate when he botched this issue, politicians now are more likely to respond to public demands or they will be replaced by those who do. The resulting political clash would either reaffirm tight ties with Washington or lead to endemic paralysis in Japan’s national security establishment. Given that the U.S. has permanently forward deployed ships and planes only in Japan, any scenario like the one sketched out above could significantly weaken U.S. capability to operate in the western Pacific, and thus call into question U.S. credibility as the underwriter of regional stability at a time when a crisis is brewing on the Korean peninsula and China continues to flex its naval and air muscle. Anyone concerned about that scenario, even if unlikely, realizes that the next half-decade of U.S.-Japan relations will have to go back to basics: rebuilding trust in the relationship, agreeing on a common set of objectives in Japan’s waters and throughout Northeast Asia, and strengthening a commitment to upholding the alliance’s military capabilities. The good news is that Japan’s bureaucrats and military leaders remain more committed than ever to revitalizing the alliance. Whether politicians on both sides of the Pacific are willing to follow them, however, is another matter. No one believes that Washington and Tokyo are about to end their half-century-old alliance over an airstrip on an island in the middle of the ocean. But no one imagined, either, that a carefully crafted, decade-long negotiating process would be so carelessly upended by short-term political calculations. Prime Minister Kan can’t afford to ignore the fissures opened by his predecessor and should work to heal them. 

**And that crushes our ability to project naval power globally—Collapses our hegemony—Japan is uniquely key**
**Kazuhisa, ’99**
[Ogawa Kazuhisa, Analyst of International Politics and Military Security Issues, “Substantive Debate Needed on Defense Partnership,” 1999, Japan Quarterly, July—September, Volume 46, Number 3]
The truth cannot be more different from this Japanese belief. U.S. policy-makers have been fearing for decades that Japan will one day announce its intention to terminate the alliance. This is because Japan is the most valuable of America's 58 treaty-bound allies in two ways. First, the United States cannot maintain global preponderance without Japan. Second, in military terms, the alliance with Japan is the most symmetric of America's alliances. The first point is obvious from Japan's unique role as America's power projection platform. U.S. military bases in all other allied countries are forward bases for responding to specific regional threats. For instance, bases in the Republic of Korea (South Korea) are for deterring—and failing that, fighting—a war on the peninsula by deploying forces in response to military threats from North Korea. The immense bases in NATO Europe are also for meeting regional threats, as were those in the Philippines, In contrast. U.S. bases in Japan provide the bulk of support for the Seventh Fleet and the III Marine Expeditionary Force, whose area of responsibility stretches from Hawaii to the Cape of Good Hope—one half of the world! Such a power projection platform is vital for America's maintenance of a position from which it can claim global leadership. Japan meets and surpasses various conditions for a power-projection platform. One is industrial and technological development. Few allies are capable of repairing technology-intensive weapons of the U.S. armed forces. In particular, only Japan can repair the U.S. Navy's Aegis air defense system; it is the only ally deploying the system. Another is economic capacity. In the course of acting as the world's leader, the United States sometimes finds itself in a financial shortfall. The ability to provide billions of dollars on such occasions on short notice is certainly a condition for an ally to lie a power-projection platform. While not discussed often, the public's friendliness toward the United Suites is another important condition. From the U.S. perspective, the Japanese are exceptional on this count, even among allies. There is no anti-American nationalism to speak of; it is difficult to believe that the United States has actually dropped two atomic bombs on Japan. Even when the rape of a schoolgirl in Okinawa by U.S. servicemen in September 1995 inflamed anti-base passions, no Japanese stoned or torched military7 bases or any other American property. Hence, on these terms, Japan is equivalent to the continental United States. The loss of the Japanese archipelago would be as damaging to the security and prosperity of the American people as an invasion of the U.S. homeland. Americans would not have an opportunity to become aware of Japan's true worth, however, until and unless Japan terminates the alliance. The second point, that Japan's burden-sharing is more symmetric than any other U.S. ally, is related to Japan's significance as America's power-projection platform. When Japanese citizens hear the term "military contribution," they define it as the deployment of the Self-Defense Forces (Sl)F) into combat. Many are ashamed that Japan cannot participate in this way, whether as America's ally, as a member of a coalition authorized by the U.N. Security Council, or under LJ.N. command. Deploying the SDF abroad can be an important contribution to international peace. However, the Japanese government defines exercise of the right of collective defense, particularly die SDF s participation in what the government routinely characterizes as activities incorporating the use of force, as unconstitutional. Unless Japan lifts this ban through reinterpretation or formal amendment of the Constitution, it cannot, contribute SDF troops. In fact, neither Japan's Asian neighbors nor the United States itself desires amendment of the Japanese Constitution. They do not relish the prospect of Japanese military independence. The interested states thus expect Japan to make a military contribution other than deployment of the SDF Japan has been doing just that to an immense extent, even though few Japanese have noticed. Even leaving aside the financial contribution worth SI3 billion. Japan's military contribution to the U.N.-led effort to contain Iraq in 1990-1991 was second only to America's in both qualitative and quantitative terms. U.S. Department ot Defense specialists acknowledge this reality. Specifically, at least 80 percent of the fuel and ammunition used by the 560,000 U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf was shipped from facilities in Japan, and approximately 20 percent of U.S. combat power in the theater was deployed from Japan. How was this possible? First, the second and third largest U.S. military fuel storage facilities in the world are in Japan: Tsummi (5.7 million barrels) in the port of Yokohama and Sasebo (5.3 million barrels) in Kyushu. Several of the largest munitions depots of the U.S. armed forces are also in Japan. The Army's depot complex near Hiroshima alone can store 119,000 tons. Those of the Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps are even larger; the Air Force's munitions facility at Kadena Air Base in Okinawa is the largest of its kind in the world. By comparison, the total munitions stockpile of the Japanese Self-Defense Forces is only 115.000 tons. In addition, combat units of nearly every kind deployed from Japan to the Persian Gulf. USS Blue Ridge, the flagship of the Seventh Fleet, directed all operations bv the Navy and the Marine Corps. USS Midway generated more sor- ties than any other aircraft carrier. Marine Corps aviation and ground units and Air Force units also deployed from Japan. In terms of the long tail of logistics and the teeth of combat power, the role of the U.S. military infrastructure in Japan exceeded even that of the British armed forces, which deployed almost 70,000 troops to the Persian Gulf. This is why military analysts regard Japan's contribution as second only to those of the United States, To say that the maintenance of such a power-projection platform costs money is a gross understatement. Japan is spending more than ¥5.1 trillion in the current fiscal year toward this cost. This expenditure breaks down as ¥640 billion in rent. Japanese labor and construction for U.S. military facilities and areas (which accounts for 70 percent of the costs associated with stationing U.S. troops in Japan), plus ¥4.9 trillion in Japanese defense expenditures, from which the Defense Facilities Administration Agency's expenditures for U.S. military facilities and areas worth Y460 billion should be subtracted. This means that the United States pays only for irreducibly military expenditures such as the payroll for U.S. military personnel. Including Japan's defense expenditures for maintaining the alliance may require an explanation. One example should suffice. At the full peacetime complement, the U.S. Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps deploy more than 200 fighters and attack aircraft in Japan between them. Yet, not one is tasked with air defense. The security of U.S. military bases in Japan from airborne threats depends on the Air Self-Defense Forces umbrella over all of Japan. The Self-Defense Forces, which share this crowded archipelago with U.S. forces, have a force structure appropriate for a perimeter security force of America's power-projection platform. No country in the littorals of the Pacific and Indian Oceans even begins to approach Japan in meeting conditions for a power-projection platform. One year after Japan notifies the United States of its intention to terminate the alliance, the United States would lose leverage, and with it, most of its capability to project military power over half of the world. Shorn of power-projection capability, the United States would be hard-pressed to remain the world's sole superpower. Despite its colossal economy, diversified nuclear arsenal and qualitative advantage in conventional forces, the United States would be just one among several great powers. America's power differential with respect to China, Russia and other major powers would be much smaller. This has been generally acknowledged by U.S. government policy advisers in semiofficial meetings. Then, by way of reports, I convinced Japanese government leaders of the significance of the Americans' agreement.
**Every carrier is key—even minor declines in our carrier numbers destroys our global naval dominance**
**Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 2k1**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001
Today, the 15 CVBG/14 CVW/600-- ship Navy is little more than a forlorn memory. The nation's 12 carriers and 10 air wings are still critical "nodes" in the much smaller 300-ship fleet, though-but they are under increasing operational and fiscal strain. Indeed, at a time when U.S. interests and friends both seem to be in jeopardy almost everywhere, the nation's naval forces have been busier than ever. During the Cold War, the Navy responded at the president's direction to a different international crisis every nine weeks or so, on average. By the late 1990s, the response rate had increased to one every three weeks. Because of the shipbuilding "holiday" of the last 10 years, it has become apparent, according to recent projections, that a 10-carrier/250-ship fleet -- or smaller-is increasingly likely unless dramatic changes in approach and funding are made. There are growing concerns that the current reviews may lead to ill-founded decisions about America's carriers from which there may be no easy-or inexpensive-way to recover. Given the requirements of the regional warfighting commanders, no fewer than 15 large-deck carriers and 14 carrier air wings are needed to provide 100-percent CVBG "coverage" of three major areas of responsibility (AORs): the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, and the Northwest/Western Pacific. Since 1993, however, the U.S. global naval force presence policy has been based on the inevitability of significant "gaps" in carrier coverage in these regions. As a result of the combination of downsizing and the increased operating tempo, the Navy's carrier force is being stretched increasingly thin to meet even these constrained global commitments. It is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain a balance between ensuring today's combat readiness and at the same time modernizing and recapitalizing the force needed for the decades ahead. The emphasis on combat readiness for US rotational forces is critical; when battle groups deploy today, the odds are great that at some time during their forward-deployed operations they will engage in actual combat. All of the last 11 CVBGs to deploy have experienced this reality. This unavoidably high operational tempo, coupled with the reality of actual combat. has caused the diversion of more and more resources toward sustaining current readiness-but at the expense of recapitalization. Operational commitments have been met, but only by the cannibalization of scarce parts and by cross-decking critically needed people, ordnance, and equipment. In both the 2001 QDR and the review being conducted by the Office of the Secretary of Defense, therefore, the Navy must underscore the reality that force levels need to take into account the high usage rates expected in any future security environment. The "do more with less" posture of the 1990s can no longer be sustained. Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival: During the Navy League's Sea-Air-- Space Exposition in April, Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Vern Clark said the following about the alleged vulnerability of carriers to asymmetric threats: "Maybe in the future we will have to worry about it more than we have to worry about it today. But for now and the near term, there is no more powerful, no more capable platform anywhere in the world than an American large-deck aircraft carrier." Just as quantity has a quality all its own, so does size. Numerous studies and analyses carried out since the mid-- 1950s have shown that, compared to smaller ships, large-deck carriers are much more survivable against a wide variety of threats. They will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Any susceptibility to attack is mitigated by the carrier's mobility, organic self-defense systems, embarked air wing, and area defenses (afforded by surface warships and submarines). A would-be attacker must penetrate sophisticated theater-wide and area-- layered defenses-and land numerous hits-to put a carrier out of action. Carriers can withstand considerable damage, thanks to their large size, the distribution of redundant systems throughout the ship, their high-strength steel and sophisticated armor, their ballistic plating, and their underwater protective systems.The carrier's ability to withstand severe punishment was-unfortunately and unintentionally-vividly demonstrated in 1969 when nine 500-pound bombs (the equivalent of six Soviet cruise missiles at the time) exploded on the flight deck of the USS Enterprise during a fire resulting from the detonation of a rocket's warhead. Despite the damage done, the Enterprise could have resumed flight operations within hours. Today's new carriers are even tougher and more survivable. Before it can be hit, moreover, the carrier must first be detected. Targeting a carrier is much more difficult than finding its general operating area -- which, during a 24-hour period, could encompass several thousand miles of ocean. The intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance challenges facing a would-be attacker, therefore, are both complex and resource-intensive. Few potential adversaries possess such capabilities today, and their sensors and weapons are themselves vulnerable to operational deception and attack. "These platforms [aircraft carriers] are tough with all kinds of defensive but also powerful offensive systems," the CNO told the Navy League. "They are mobile, and they are fast ... which translates into a 700-square-mile area of uncertainty in 30 minutes. In an hour-and-a-half it grows to 6,300 miles and, friends, that presents one heck of a targeting problem." Size also contributes significantly to seakeeping qualities and to the ability to conduct flight operations safely in severe weather around the clock. While today's larger high-performance tactical aircraft have imposed design requirements for larger flight decks-from the 81,500 tons (full load) of the first postWWII carrier, USS Forrestal, to today's 96,000-ton Nimitz-class CVNs-so too has the demand to conduct flight operations 24 hours per day and in sea states and weather conditions that would completely shut down a much smaller ship. Taking into consideration both the size and the capabilities of the new aircraft coming into service, the large-- deck carrier and its air wing will have the ability to operate "24/7" and in virtually all weather conditions. The question that must be asked, therefore, is whether "part-time" sea-based air power staged on small "air-capable" ships is acceptable in future crises and conflicts. If past is prologue, the answer is a resounding "No!" The tangible and intangible contributions of nuclear propulsion to operational effectiveness also must be factored into this complex equation. The endurance of today's nuclear-- powered aircraft carrier is measured in millions of miles. The CVNs are capable of 25 years of operations before having to be refueled. Nuclear-powered carriers have the ability to steam at high speed from one operating area to another, without the need to replenish. They arrive on station ready for immediate action. A Needed Investment In U.S. National Security: Despite the hopes of most Americans to transition to an era of reduced conflict and crises during the post-Cold War era, there has been no reduction in the operational and personnel tempos required to meet U.S. global commitments, and the increased pace of operations has strained the Navy's people and their equipment. In short, the delicate balance between matching strategic requirements with needed resources has been thrown off-center. But "doing much more with much less" has become the mantra and the reality of the U.S. armed forces in recent years. If the United States expects to preserve its position of world leadership, to assure access to world regions of importance, and to have the credible military force needed to deter conflict-and/or to respond to crises and win wars-it must invest more in all elements of U.S. national security, particularly in its versatile, capable, and forward-deployed naval expeditionary forces. The Bush administration is now poised to make a dramatic course-change to make things right. The dramatist and writer Ben Jonson once remarked, "Good fortune smiles on the audacious." It is past time for the Navy to be audacious in articulating its "real" requirements, as the chief of naval operations has emphasized. Analysis and real-world experience clearly show that any reductions below the current force structure of 12 aircraft carriers and 10 air wings would pose great risk to U.S. national security and to the well-being of this nation's allies around the world. Moreover, the increasingly chaotic and troubled international-security environment of recent years, combined with the higher-threat scenarios projected for the future, suggests that 15 large-deck carriers and 14 air wings would really be "the right stuff" for the United States of America.

**The gradual decline of the Navy will leave a vacuum culminating in major power competition and global war.**
**Kaplan, national correspondent Atlantic Monthly, 2k7**
Robert D. Kaplan November 2007, Atlantic Monthly, national correspondent for The Atlantic, is the Class of 1960 Distinguished Visiting Professor in National Security at the U.S. Naval Academy, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200711/america-decline/3
“Regular wars” between major states could be as frequent in the 21st century as they were in the 20th. In his 2005 book, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0304367346/theatlanticmonthA/ref=nosim/|Another Bloody Century]]</span>, the British scholar Colin Gray, a professor of international politics and strategic studies at the University of Reading, explains convincingly that these future wars will not require any “manifestation of insanity by political leaders,” nor even an “aberration from normal statecraft,” but may come about merely because of what Thucydides recognized as “fear, honour, and interest.” Wars between the United States and a Sino-Russian axis or between the United States and a coalition of rogue states are just two of the scenarios Gray imagines. Are we prepared to fight these wars? Our Army and Marine Corps together constitute the most battle- hardened regular land force in the world. But it has been a long time since our Navy has truly fought another navy, or our Air Force another air force. In the future they could be tested to the same extent that the Army and Marine Corps have been. The current catchphrase is boots on the ground; in the future it could be hulls in the water. Democracy and supremacy undermine the tragic sense required for long-range planning. A “peaceful, gain- loving nation” like the United States “is not far-sighted, and far-sightedness is needed for adequate military preparation, especially in these days,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Influence_of_Sea_Power_upon_History/Chapter_I|warned Navy Captain Alfred Thayer Mahan in 1890]]</span>, a time when—although the Panama Canal was soon to be built and World War I lay just over the horizon—America was still preoccupied with land-based westward expansion (Wounded Knee, the last battle of the Indian Wars, was fought that year). Mahan notwithstanding, too few strategists at the time were thinking seriously about sea power. Today we are similarly obsessed with dirty land wars, and our 300-ship Navy is roughly half the size it was in the mid-1980s. A great navy is like oxygen: You notice it only when it is gone. But the strength of a nation’s sea presence, more than any other indicator, has throughout history often been the best barometer of that nation’s power and prospects. “Those far-distant storm-beaten ships upon which [Napoleon’s] Grand Army never looked, stood between it and the dominion of the world,” Mahan wrote, describing how the British Royal Navy had checked Napoleon’s ambitions. In our day, carrier strike groups, floating in international waters only a few miles off enemy territory, require no visas or exit strategies. Despite the quagmire of Iraq, we remain the greatest outside power in the Middle East because of our ability to pro­ject destructive fire from warships in the Indian Ocean and its tributary waters such as the Persian Gulf. Our sea power allows us to lose a limited war on land without catastrophic consequences. The Navy, together with the Air Force, constitutes our insurance policy. The Navy also plays a crucial role as the bus driver for most of the Army’s equipment, whenever the Army deploys overseas. Army units can’t forward-deploy anywhere in significant numbers without a national debate. Not so for the Navy. Forget the cliché about the essence of the Navy being tradition; I’ve spent enough time with junior officers and enlisted sailors on Pacific deployments to know that the essence of our Navy is operations: disaster relief, tracking Chinese subs, guarding sea-lanes, and so forth. American sailors don’t care what the mission is, as long as there is one, and the farther forward the better. The seminal event for the U.S. Navy was John Paul Jones’s interdiction of the British during the Revolutionary War—which occurred off Yorkshire, on the other side of the Atlantic. During the quasi-war that President John Adams waged against France from 1798 to 1800, U.S. warships protected American merchant vessels off what is today Indonesia. American warships operated off North Africa in the First Barbary War of 1801 to 1805. The War of 1812 found the Navy as far down the globe as the coast of Brazil and as far up as the North Cape of Scandinavia. Peter Swartz, an expert at the Center for Naval Analyses, observes that because operating thousands of miles from home ports is so ingrained in U.S. naval tradition, no one thinks it odd that even the Coast Guard has ships in service from Greenland to South America. Great navies help preserve international stability. When the British navy began to decline, the vacuum it left behind helped engender the competition among major powers that led to World War I. After the U.S. Navy was forced to depart Subic Bay in the Philippines in 1992, piracy quintupled in the Southeast Asian archipelago—which includes one of the world’s busiest waterways, the Strait of Malacca. In an age when 90 percent of global commerce travels by sea, and 95 percent of our imports and exports from outside North America do the same (even as that trade volume is set to double by 2020), and when 75 percent of the world’s population is clustered within 200 miles of the sea, the relative decline of our Navy is a big, dangerous fact to which our elites appear blind. 

**And, Carrier-based deterrence maintains world peace—It prevents inevitable brushfires from becoming global conflagrations**
**Johnson & Krulak, ’97**
[Admiral Jay Johnson, Chief of Naval Operations, General Charles Krulak, Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, “Forward Presence is Essential to American Interests,” November 1st 1996, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=870]]</span>]
Also this morning, U.S. Navy amphibious assault ships carrying 4,400 combat-ready American Marines are forward deployed in the waters of the Mediterranean Sea and the Persian Gulf. At sea in the Mediterranean and in the Persian Gulf are aircraft carrier battle groups with 16,000 sailors and two air wings of combat-ready aircraft. Finally, in the Far East, the United States has permanently deployed a third aircraft carrier battle group and a third amphibious ready group. The vigilant forward presence of these forces is vital, but not always as visible to Americans as it is to the rest of the world. Their routine daily efforts don't always make the headlines, but they are vitally important to world peace and stability. Some argue that the forward presence these forces represent is no longer necessary. They argue that forces reacting from the United States are enough to maintain international stability. They further maintain that "brush fires," or outbreaks of regional instability, are insignificant or incidental at best, and they argue that America can no longer afford the forward presence of these forces on what amounts to a near-continuous basis. We would argue just the opposite. Forward-deployed U.S. forces, primarily naval expeditionary forces -- the Navy-Marine Corps team -- are vital to regional stability and to keeping these crises from escalating into full-scale wars. To those who argue that the United States can't afford to have this degree of vigilance anymore, we say: The United States can't afford not to. These brush fires, whether the result of long-standing ethnic tensions or resurgent nationalism in the wake of the Cold War, will only continue. The Cold War was an anomaly. Never again will we live in a bipolar world whose nuclear shadow suppressed nationalism and ethnic tensions. We have, in some respects, reverted back to the world our ancestors knew: a world in disorder. Somalia, Bosnia, Liberia, Haiti, Rwanda, Iraq and the Taiwan Straits are merely examples of the types of continuing crises we now face. Some might call this period an age of chaos. The United States and the world cannot afford to allow any crisis to escalate into threats to the United States' and the world's vital interests. While the skies are not dark with smoke from these brush fires, today's world demands a new approach. The concepts of choice must be selective and committed engagement, unencumbered global operations and prompt crisis resolution. There is no better way to maintain and enforce these concepts than with the forward presence of the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps team. There are four basic tenets to international security in today's world: prevention, deterrence, crisis resolution and war termination. The underlying assumption of these tenets is that the United States and its allies should not be forced into winning a war in an overwhelming (and expensive) fashion. Instead, it is much better -- and cheaper -- to resolve a crisis before it burns out of control. Prevent. The key to prevention is continuous presence in a region. This lets our friends know we have an interest and lets potential foes know that we're there to check any move. Both effects occur without any direct action taken. Although hard to measure, the psychological impact of naval expeditionary forces is undeniable. This regional presence underwrites political and economic stability. This is forward presence. Deter. Presence does not prevent every crisis. Some rogues are going to be tempted to strike no matter what the odds and will require active measures to be deterred. When crises reach this threshold, there is no substitute for sustained actual presence. Naval expeditionary forces can quickly take on the role of the very visible fist. Friends and potential enemies recognize naval expeditionary forces as capable of defending or destroying. This visible fist, free from diplomatic and territorial constraints, forms the bedrock of regional deterrence. For example, the mere presence of naval expeditionary forces deterred Chinese attempts to derail the democratic process in Taiwan and countered Iraqi saber-rattling toward Jordan. It's hard to quantify the cost savings of deterring a crisis before it requires our intervention. But the savings are real -- in dollars and often in blood and human misery. This is forward presence. Resolve. If a crisis can be neither prevented nor deterred, then prompt and decisive crisis resolution is imperative before the crisis threatens vital interests. U.S. naval expeditionary forces are a transoceanic key that finds and opens -- forcibly if necessary -- any gateway into a fiery world. This ability is equally expandable and retractable according to the situation. Perhaps most importantly, naval expeditionary forces don't need permission from foreign governments to be on scene and to take unilateral action in a crisis. This both unencumbers the force and takes the pressure off allies to host any outside forces. Over the past two years, for example, U.S. naval expeditionary forces simultaneously and unilaterally deployed to Liberia and to the Central African Republic (1,500 miles inland) to protect U.S. and international citizens. They also launched measured retaliatory Tomahawk strikes to constrain unacceptable Iraqi behavior, and conducted naval air and Tomahawk strikes, which brought the warring parties in Bosnia to the negotiating table. This is forward presence. Terminate. Each of the above tenets is worthy of the United States paying an annual peace insurance premium. Otherwise we and our allies risk paying the emotional, physical and financial costs of a full-blown conflagration that began as just another brush fire. If there is a war, naval expeditionary forces will be first to fight. They are inherently capable of enabling the follow-on forces from the United States for as long as it takes. And they will remain on-scene to enforce the settlement that ends the conflict. This is forward presence. The Iraqis, Central Africas, Somalias and Bosnias inevitably destabilize and erode world order and respect for the rule of law. Indeed, a failure to respond to them encourages future -- more serious -- crises. The United States must foster stability around the world, today and tomorrow. The peace insurance premium is a small price and is the cost of leadership. Who else is capable of this type of forward presence on a global basis? For the United States, maintaining a steady commitment to stability will be a challenge. But maintain it we must, or the price, literally and figuratively, will be much greater down the road. The example of fighting forest fires is precisely applicable. The philosophy is simple: prevention through living in the environment; deterrence through vigilance; and resolution through quick and selective engagement. Ninety-five percent of all forest fires are contained -- the direct result of the watchful presence of the local initial attack crews who attack flash points. As for the other 5 percent, once the window of opportunity for decisive early action is missed, firefighters must be brought in from outside the region, and it is exponentially more expensive. Sometimes there are casualties -- casualties that would not have been incurred had the fire been contained before it had the opportunity to flare. America's Navy-Marine Corps team is under way, ready and on-scene at trouble spots around the world. Forward presence makes it -- and will keep it -- the right force, tailor-made for these uncertain and sometimes fiery times. 

===GDS - 1AC - China Advantage=== 

**__Contention Three—The Chinese Takeover__**

**China is rising peacefully—stronger influence in East Asia is inevitable—attempting to contain it guarantees US gets entangled in conflict**
**Bandow ’09** [Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 2/24/09 “Balancing Beijing” http://nationalinterest.org/article/balancing-beijing-3021, SM]
Yet the United States and Soviet Union spent most of the cold war sparring for influence in the Third World to little meaningful effect. Money was spent and lives were lost, but in the end it didn't much matter who was numero uno in Vientiane, Kinshasa, Luanda or Managua. It matters even less today. As my Cato colleague Ben Friedman puts it, "There is little that China can do in Africa to make it stronger or to damage U.S. interests." If Beijing wishes to invest heavily in places with little geopolitical heft, why should the United States object? Even more important, Washington needs to back away from any kind of arms race with the PRC. The latest Pentagon Joint Operating Environment 2008 ominously declared that while Beijing doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." The annual Pentagon assessment of PRC military spending appears to show Beijing's conscious effort to build a force capable of deterring American intervention against China in East Asia. As a result, Aaron Friedberg, until recently Vice President Cheney's chief foreign-policy adviser, worries that the balance of power "is beginning to shift in way that, under the wrong set of circumstances, could increase the risk of miscalculation and conflict." Yet the question is, what balance of power? Beijing poses no threat to America's homeland or even Pacific possessions and will not do so for decades, if ever. The United States possesses a far stronger military to start-eleven carrier groups to none, for instance-spends five or more times as much as the PRC on defense (excluding the costs of Afghanistan and Iraq) and is allied with most important industrial states in Asia and Europe. There is no Chinese threat or potential threat to America. At issue is relative influence in East Asia and the security of Washington's friends in that region. Yet the PRC so far has been assertive rather than aggressive and those nations, particularly Japan and South Korea, could do much more individually and collectively for regional security. Washington should not hesitate to sell arms to friendly states, including Taiwan, despite Chinese protests, but should leave them with responsibility for their own defense. Of course, a policy of continued restraint by Beijing will make it far easier for the United States to back away. In any case, there is little that Washington can do, at least at acceptable cost, to maintain U.S. dominance along China's borders, as the PRC-whose economy already ranks number two or three, depending on the measure, in the world-continues to grow. Washington would have to devote an ever larger amount of resources to the military, in the midst of economic crisis, to ensure its ability to overcome far more limited Chinese capabilities. Even then, Beijing is unlikely to forever accept U.S. hegemony. Confrontation if not conflict would be likely. The better option would be to temper America's geopolitical pretensions and accept a more influential PRC in its own region. China will grow in power, irrespective of Washington's wishes. America's chief objective should be to ensure that this rise is peaceful, as Beijing has promised. U.S.-China diplomatic relations passed the thirty-year mark last fall. The relationship has survived great challenges and is likely to face even greater ones in the future. But despite inevitable differences between the two nations, much depends upon strengthening their ties. The twenty-first century will turn out far differently-and positively-if America and the PRC prove willing to accommodate each other's economic and geopolitical ambitions. 

**Status quo marine presence in Japan signals a strategy of Chinese containment—they are an unnecessary burden**
**Mochizuki ’96** [Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96 “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]
However, just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away. China, put down by the West for two centuries, is cognizant of its growing strength and intends to be recognized for it. It also has territorial disputes with many neighbors besides Taiwan, and a perception that the United States wants to box it in militarily and politically. Similar conditions -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped produce World War I. Under these circumstances, the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers. Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance. Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review. But there are risks to sticking with the status quo. Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed so starkly on Okinawa last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, has been developing ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen. Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their country, essentially still at Cold War levels, should be reduced. True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too. At this point, reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including a reduction in the number of Marine combat units on Okinawa, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance. The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for. The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea. But all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. As for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States. Other potential disputes with China should not be addressed militarily. We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that the United States has no long-term interest in fighting land wars in Asia. By committing ourselves to what would be primarily a maritime defense strategy, we would deter China from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation. If China some day caused military trouble in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments. But these are matters where hyper-vigilance now is unneeded, and is only likely to make things worse. Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.) Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy, it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action. In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. In the longer term, Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner to the United States. Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war. In these tense times in Asian politics, restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders, but that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region. And, by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer. Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, we should get our post-Cold War Asian security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis. 

**The plan allows a peaceful transition to China’s rise—sends the perception of peaceful US intentions**
**Bandow 10** [Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan,, 5/25, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]]</span>, SM]
Washington should press the PRC to take two simple steps: renounce the use of force to resolve Taiwan's status and remove missiles now targeting the island. In return, Taiwan should indicate that it will not ally with any party or allow other powers to use bases against the PRC. The U.S. should explain that it has no intention of intervening militarily against China, maintaining a military alliance with Taiwan, or using military facilities on the island. Washington also should pull back other military units stationed nearby, such as the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force on Okinawa. Demonstrating its pacific intent would enable the PRC to defuse proposals to revamp America's alliances with South Korea and Japan to deal with other contingencies — meaning China. Although Beijing's rise has been steady, its continued rise will be smoother if achieved in cooperation with its neighbors and without hostility from them or America. The PRC's own actions will be the most important factor in determining other nations' reactions. It is often said that Americans live in a dangerous world. We do. But shoe and underwear bombers do not match the threat posed by nation states armed with nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic missiles, carrier groups, and armored divisions. While the future is uncertain, it is difficult to imagine the U.S. at war with Russia, India, or any significant power other than China. Thankfully, conflict with the latter also remains unlikely. But the mere possibility of a future military confrontation reinforces the importance of the world's two most important nations working to defuse potential conflicts. Which means cooperating on North Korea and Taiwan. Doing so successfully would go a long way to make the 21st century one of peace

**This strategy will inevitable fail—the US should offshore balance in East Asia in order to allow regional powers to create multilateral institutions—allows for engagement and peaceful Chinese rise**
**Nye et al., ’07**
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP
As the United States considers the evolving structure of international relations in Asia in 2020, there are scenarios we should seek to avoid. In particular, with the rising power, influence, nationalism, and resource needs of Asia’s major powers, it is clear that a unipolar U.S. management of Asia is not attainable, and its pursuit could prove counterproductive to adjusting the U.S. role in the region to emerging realities. For some, a condominium between the United States and China seems the logical future structure for the region. However, as long as the United States and China have different value systems, and absent a clear understanding of our respective interests both regionally and globally, it is our view that such an accommodation overestimates the potential of U.S.-China relations. A condominium with China would put at risk the quality of relations with friends and allies across the region who are wary, if accepting, of China’s growing weight and value to the United States, in part as key to achieving strategic balance in the region. At the same time, however, a bipolar structure with only the United States and Japan facing China would be ineffective, because it would force other regional powers to choose between two competing poles. Some might side with the United States and Japan, but most regional powers would choose strict neutrality or align with China. Ultimately, this would weaken the powerful example of American and Japanese democracy and return the region to a Cold War or nineteenth century balance-of-power logic that does not favor stability in the region or contribute to China’s potential for positive change. Stability in East Asia will rest on the quality of U.S.-Japan-China relations, and even though the United States is closely allied with Japan, Washington should encourage good relations among all three. The best structure for Asia rests on sustained U.S. strength, commitment, and leadership in the region, combined with proactive participation in regional affairs by Asia’s other successful powers. An open structure in which Japan, India, Australia, Singapore, and others are leading by example, based on partnerships with the United States and shared democratic values, is the most effective way to realize an agenda for Asia that emphasizes free markets, continued prosperity based on the rule of law, and increasing political freedom. The United States and Japan should also seek to build relationships with countries such as Vietnam, which has a growing interest in being a part of Asia’s trading life, and New Zealand, which shares our values. All these efforts should be coupled with measures to expand areas of cooperation with China, while being candid with Beijing about areas of disagreement. Working within Asia in this manner, we believe, will be key to positively influencing the growth and direction of all of Asia, including China, thereby “getting Asia right.” 

**The plan is key to restructure the relationship with Japan—allows it to be more regionally engaged with China**
**Ikenberry & Kupchan, ’10**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, U.S. officials have reacted with considerable discomfort to the more independent and assertive policies of the new Japanese government. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo in November that the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg last week welcomed the "expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. On the contrary, it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo, not Washington. Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war in 2003, and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the United States enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the United States, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. 

**And an assertive Japanese foreign policy allows for a multilateral balance of power to form—creates regional peace and stability**
**Sukma, ’10**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have further undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation. It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community. The role that Japan has played in Southeast Asia — an important component of East Asia’s stability and security — has helped the region flourish economically, which in turn contributes to peace and stability in the region. Southeast Asian states wish to see Japan, under the new administration led by Prime Minister Kan, to succeed. Southeast Asian states, and also East Asia as a whole, needs a strong partnership with Japan to ensure that the 21st century is indeed an Asian century. Indonesia is no exception. Our relationship with Japan will continue to occupy an important place in our foreign policy. Japan is the largest trading partner and investor in Indonesia. Japan has been playing an important role in our economic development and is a fellow democracy with whom we share many values and norms. 

**Regional security architectures is key to making the transition to a non-US dominant East Asia stable—solves the transition wars**
**Kupchan, ’03**
[Charles Kupchan, Associate Professor of Government @ The Walsh School of Foreign service, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “The Rise of Europe, America's Changing Internationalism, and the End of U.S. Primacy,” Political Science Quarterly, Summer, Vol. 118, Issue 2, Academic Search Premier]
As this new century progresses, unipolarity will give way to a world of multiple centers of power. As this transition proceeds, American grand strategy should focus on making both Europe and East Asia less reliant on U.S. power, while at the same time working with major states in both regions to promote collective management of the global system. The ultimate vision that should guide U.S. grand strategy is the construction of a concert-like directorate of the major powers in North America, Europe, and East Asia. These major powers would together manage developments and regulate relations both within and among their respective regions. They would also coordinate efforts in the battle against terrorism, a struggle that will require patience and steady cooperation among many different nations. Regional centers of power also have the potential to facilitate the gradual incorporation of developing nations into global flows of trade, information, and values. Strong and vibrant regional centers, for reasons of both proximity and culture, often have the strongest incentives to promote prosperity and stability in their immediate peripheries. North America might, therefore, focus on Latin America; Europe on Russia, the Middle East, and Africa; and East Asia on South Asia and Southeast Asia. Mustering the political will and the foresight to pursue this vision will be a formidable task. The United States will need to begin ceding influence and autonomy to regions that have grown all too comfortable with American primacy. Neither American leaders, long accustomed to calling the shots, nor leaders in Europe and East Asia, long accustomed to passing the buck, will find the transition an easy one. But it is far wiser and safer to get ahead of the curve and shape structural change by design than to find unipolarity giving way to a chaotic multipolarity by default. It will take a decade, if not two, for a new international system to evolve. But the decisions taken by the United States early in the twenty-first century will play a critical role in determining whether multipolarity reemerges peacefully or brings with it the competitive jockeying that has so frequently been the precursor to great power war in the past. 

**And only multilateral institutions can maintain a peaceful Chinese rise—the alternative is a imperialist China**
**Nye et al., ’07**
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP
A profound transformation has been unfolding in China, one that points to the possibility of China emerging as the dominant regional power. Even factoring in the possibility of disruption, China will continue to be an engine of regional growth and global dynamism. China’s growing comprehensive national power is already well reflected in its assertive diplomacy aimed at shaping the strategic environment around its borders. One key question for the United States, Japan, and all of Asia is: how will China use its newfound capabilities and resources as it matures as an economic and military power? Since our October 2000 report was issued, perhaps the most significant event in the Pacific has been the explosive economic growth of China. China’s trade-to- GDP ratio has nearly doubled in the past 10 years, making it much more reliant on the external sector—U.S. and Asian markets in particular and raw materials from Australia, North America, and increasingly the Middle East. While China’s economic success presents opportunities for all, there are also emerging costs, such as a drawing away of capital and jobs that would have otherwise gone to its Asian neighbors—those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) especially. China will grow, but its growth will not necessarily be a linear “rise” without complications. China has massive internal challenges that include an aging society, a weak social safety net, large and growing disparities in development, and systemic corruption—all of which have resulted in social unease. China’s leaders also are faced with growing labor unrest, a weak banking and financial system, lingering ethnic disputes, environmental problems almost unimaginable to Westerners, and vulnerability to epidemic disease. Together, these challenges have caused Chinese leaders to focus internally, thereby putting a premium on external stability. China seeks a stable, peaceful international environment in which to develop its comprehensive national power. China needs to avoid any disruption of its access to national resources (particularly oil and gas) and foreign investment, and it can ill afford major diversions of resources to causes unrelated to the objectives of economic growth and public welfare. That said, nationalism is growing in China, as elsewhere in the region. Among China’s leaders, nationalism is likely viewed as a useful tool to muster support for the Communist Party, particularly should economic growth falter. Although reliance on nationalism poses risks for the regime, Chinese leaders will likely continue to tap into nationalist sentiment to bolster their own legitimacy. This may place limitations on the quality of interactions the United States and Japan can expect with China for the foreseeable future. Also limiting the quality of interactions are differences in values. The most profound of these relate to differences over human rights, religious freedoms, and political systems. The values gap matters in the most consequential form because it gives rise to a “trust deficit.” In the case of China, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the nexus between values and foreign policy could negatively affect U.S. interests. This is manifest in China’s behavior toward countries like Iran, Sudan, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, and Uzbekistan. It is evident that China is engaged in relationship building, which may enable continued irresponsible behavior on the part of other governments. One of the key features of Chinese foreign policy is a requirement to establish secure, reliable access to energy resources that lay beyond China’s borders. Its large and rising energy deficit and lingering distrust of free markets foster a perception among Chinese leaders that increasing reliance on foreign energy creates vulnerabilities. In the hope of securing the energy required to support China’s domestic demand, especially Persian Gulf oil to meet future transportation demands, China has embarked on an effort to promote supply diversification as well as overseas equity investment. The United States, Japan, and others will be further affected by China’s surging demand for energy and raw materials. Some of the consequences will likely be negative: higher prices for foreign crude, increasing environmental degradation, and competition over disputed maritime boundaries. But there will also be new opportunities for cooperation on energy efficiency, “clean-coal technology,” and nuclear power. It may also be the case that China’s increasing reliance on the outside world will present the United States and its friends with foreign policy opportunities. The spectacular economic growth of China has allowed it to make major investments in the military. China’s intensive military modernization efforts are focused on preparing for a possible conflict with Taiwan, and its efforts are paying off. China is developing the ability to fight a high-tech war along its periphery. China has, for example, developed remarkable coordination among critical military communities—those that do acquisition, training, logistics, doctrine/strategy, etc. Historically, such coordination has proven to be a formula for militaries to improve their capabilities quickly. China has also begun to break down some of the barriers between its services, although it has not yet developed the ability to conduct truly joint military operations. As China continues to expand its military capabilities, it is likely to place greater emphasis on the development of a blue-water navy. This flows in part from the perception that it needs to protect energy sources and sea lanes. The modernization and growth of China will insure its power and affluence, but the direction it takes remains an open question. In 2020, China could be a responsible stakeholder, with increased political freedoms and liberal institutions that support economic openness and make for more responsible treatment of its people and its neighbors. On the other hand, China’s conduct could be marked by mercantilism, with illiberal institutions, chauvinistic nationalism, and corruption that distort international norms and threaten neighbors. China will continue to face discrete decision points in the global arena. In such instances, it is important that China has incentives to make those choices that lead it down a path of peaceful integration and benign competition. 

**Chinese military strategy means if conflict occurs, full-scale escalation is likely**
**Dodge, ’05**
[Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies—Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]
In the summer of 2005, Chinese Major-General Zhu Chenghu threatened the United States with nuclear attack, stating that, “If the Americans draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, the PRC realizes that it must be able to deter U.S. military intervention. The idea is to convince the United States and the world that China is both capable and, more importantly, willing to inflict grievous casualties on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. Efforts toward this end have been manifested over recent years in the form of greatly increased military spending, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical nuclear weapons, and the formation of a naval warfighting strategy that emphasizes asymmetric attacks on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation. Put simply, this piece argues that China’s warfighting doctrine is misguided, unrealistic, and dangerous. It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because it makes nuclear war with the United States far more likely. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, China’s acquisition of advanced foreign weaponry, its expectation that the United States will back down at the first hint of casualties, and its belief that nuclear weapons can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, China may act on its irredentist policies when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition. Finally, the loss of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, will cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, leaving only nuclear options. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of inadvertent escalation. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas are greatly germane to any future Sino-U.S. conflict. It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. 

**Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation—countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation**
**Straits Times, 2K**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. 

**And, Major Powers will get involved—escalates globally**
**Hunkovic, ’09**
[Lee J. Hunkovic, Professor @ The American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America,” 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.

**Independently, East Asian multilateralism is key to maintain East Asian stability**
**Feng, ’10**
[Zhu Feng, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, Has served as Research Fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, Visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]</span>]
If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending in the region is at least a timely wake-up call as to the vulnerability of East Asia security. Many Asian observers agree that East Asia is in transition. But the key questions concern the sources, the pace, and direction of the transition. There is growing speculation that post-cold war U.S. regional hegemony is eroding, due primarily to Washington’s significant international commitments in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and Pakistan as well as the impact of the global financial crisis and the rapid rise of China. At the same time, new challenges, such as a nuclear North Korea, a changing Japan, difficult-to-solve territorial disputes across the region, contentious history issues, and, perhaps most importantly, the “security dilemma” arising from a power shift in the region have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors. What is the regional security perspective, and what will be the emerging trends? The answer varies tremendously according to the respective preferences, strategic goal-setting, and interest calculations of the regional member states. As John Ikenberry and Michael Mastanduno argue, “the Asia-Pacific is a mosaic of divergent cultures and political regime types, historical estrangements, shifting power balances, and rapid economic change.” But how will this “mosaic” evolve and what will be the sustainable outlook of great-power relations in East Asia? David Shambaugh optimistically assumes that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will not likely lead to a dramatic strategic shift in the East Asian order. Similarly, as Robert S. Ross and Zhu Feng emphasize, structural and long-term international factors, as well as short-term U.S. and Chinese policy trends, allow for tempered optimism that a power transition, albeit competitive and costly, can remain peaceful. But can such optimism be sustained in the foreseeable future? A focus on aggregate defense spending cannot mask the effects of increasingly volatile regional security flash points, such as a nuclear North Korea, or regional power shifts involving China, India, and Japan. Any serious exploration of regional security dynamics, however, must recognize that there are no important hidden shifts in national strategies. So far, power shifts in East Asia have not substantially destabilized the military balance. Nor has the global financial crisis opened up a “window of opportunity” for any power in the region to engage in military adventurism. The ongoing financial crisis has highlighted the fragility, lack of legitimacy, and overall imbalances in global economic governance. At the same time, new and powerful members of the global system have yet to take their place at the table of a wide range of international forums managing regional and multilateral relationships in the domain of old and “new” security issues. This includes the rise of new giants such as India, China, and Brazil, new forms of governance at the regional level of which the European Union is a model, and many emerging states of medium size whose place at the global table remains uncertain. The continued exclusion of the poorest countries in the world and the ongoing problem of failed states, coupled with debilitating ethnic conflicts, continue to loom large. The diversity of regional perspectives should not weaken regional security efforts, which by nature are shared, interconnected, and indispensable. The future of regional security need not be gloomy, as long as we can figure out how to properly handle security challenges in a way that reenergizes regional financial and economic integration in the wake of the global financial crisis. (China, for instance, is agonizing over the repeated demand for greater transparency and vigilant oversight from its neighbors). Meanwhile, there is little evidence that Beijing’s increased military budget encourages instability in the region. Nevertheless, the avoidance of diplomatic clashes and the management of contending security concerns should be a concern for every country in the region.
==Bronx== 
===1AC – Bronx – Plan Text=== 
Plan – The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and implement a phased withdrawal of all Marines stationed on Okinawa, except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, to the point of elimination.

===1AC – Bronx – Alliance Advantage=== 
**__Advantage One – The Alliance__**
**__We’ll isolate three internal links__**
**__First, equality__ – The Futenma issue is the __test case__ for a truly equal alliance – Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Van Wolferen ‘10</span>**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been</span> that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington has not treated Japan as</span> a fully <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">independent country</span>. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">But</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is </span>apparently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">not ready</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The matter of moving a</span>n American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Marine base </span>in Okinawa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is</span> apparently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. </span>Many governments, including Washington, have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’</span>. And now, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">when the new government says that this </span>undesirable <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">imbalance must change, Americans </span>can only <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">whine </span>about military base arrangements <span style="font-size: 5pt;">different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">In </span>the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Futenma </span>base case <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we see a </span>new American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">presidency </span>entirely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">missing the significance of what is happening </span>in Japan. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama and his advisers risk undermining </span>new <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">possibilities for creating a stable </span>new <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cooperative relationship. </span>Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. </span>People speak automatically about the United States and Japan as allies. But, again, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we have a conceptual problem </span>here. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">An alliance is a relationship entered into </span>voluntarily <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by</span> two or more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">independent states. </span>When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But</span>, most importantly <span style="font-size: 5pt;">for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words,</span> Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the United States. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And </span>as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington could</span> afford to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">meet Japan</span>ese sensibilities <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with disdain</span>, as it is doing now <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with respect to the Marines on Okinawa.</span> It is therefore natural that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this </span>dependency <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">relationship going are </span>radically <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">altered.</span>

**That’s uniquely key – an equal alliance is key to create the perception of stability**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nye et al. 2K</span>**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">can exercise leadership</span>--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with Japan, the two</span> countries <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will</span> be better able to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">realize the full potential for cooperation</span> nurtured during the past 50 years. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">changes</span> underway in Japan ultimately <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">produce a</span> stronger, more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">responsive political</span> and economic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">system</span>, the synergy in U.S.- Japan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">relations will enhance our abilities to</span> play an <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">engage</span>d, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">in regional and global arenas</span> in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it is urgent that the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and Japan develop a common perception</span> and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship. The use of bases</span> granted by Japan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">allows the U.S. to affect the security environment</span> from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor--not the ceiling--for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan's prohibition against collective self-defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation. Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. But <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan</span> that is willing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner</span>. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model for the alliance. 


**__Second, sustainability__ – the status quo alliance is politically unsustainable – failure to resolve the crisis over Marines will collapse all public support**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Yamaguchi ‘10</span>
[Noboru Yamaguchi, Visiting Scholar @ The John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies of Harvard University, Senior Defense Attache @ The Embassy of Japan in the U.S., Commanding General of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Aviation School, Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies, Vice Commandant of the JGDSF Research & Development Command, “Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,” March 17th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]</span>]
In this context, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we must not forget the asymmetry in the Japan-US alliance</span>. From the start, this has been a relationship in which <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan maintains only light</span> military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">power</span> and holds its military commitments abroad to the minimum. At the same time it provides bases for American troops, in exchange for which the United States guarantees its security. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Because of</span> this <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">asymmetry, dissatisfaction</span> with the other partner <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">can easily mount</span> on either side. The US military stands prepared to shed the blood of young Americans in the event of an emergency in Japan. Because it does not ask Japan to do the same, a sense of extreme imbalance exists on the American side with respect to the burdens to be borne in an emergency. On our side of the Pacific, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan provides bases in exchange for</span> the use of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">US military power as a deterrent</span>. From the perspective of the Japanese people, however, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">what tends to stand out</span> more prominently than the life-or-death benefits they would receive from American cooperation in an emergency that may or may not even occur <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is the peacetime cost of maintaining of the US bases</span>, which are additionally a source of noise pollution, accidents, and scandals involving American soldiers. The problem of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Futenma</span>’s relocation <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is linked to this unbalanced nature of the bilateral alliance</span>. The initial relocation plan offers a representative example of attempts to provide greater stability to the stationing of US forces in Japan by lightening the excessive burdens imposed on Okinawa, and hence to sustain the deterrent provided by the presence of the US military. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If the Futenma issue cannot be resolved</span> smoothly, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a vicious circle</span> working in the opposite direction <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could take hold</span>. Not only would residents in the vicinity of the base fail to see a lightening of their load, but the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">deterrence</span> provided by the United States <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could also be impaired</span>. There is another major problem. This is that damage could be done to the efforts by both sides to lessen the alliance’s asymmetry, even if only to a limited extent. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Over the past 20 years Tokyo and Washington have</span> both <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">worked</span> hard t<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">o get Japan to shoulder greater responsibility</span> for regional and global security and thereby move the alliance beyond one in which Japan merely makes bases available in exchange for help with its defense. As a result of this endeavor, Japan’s participation in international security cooperation has increased. Shortly after the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War, Japan dispatched minesweepers to the Gulf, and in recent years it has sent other units of the Self-Defense Forces to the Indian Ocean and Iraq and participated in international anti-piracy patrols off the coast of Somalia. One element of these efforts involved was the “reaffirmation of the Japan-US alliance” initiative led by Joseph Nye during his term as US assistant secretary of defense in the mid-1990s. Then, from 2004 to 2006, attention focused on the work to “transform the Japan-US alliance,” especially on plans to relocate the Futenma base and realign the US forces stationed in Japan. Among other key issues addressed were executing peacekeeping operations, extending humanitarian reconstruction assistance, and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Aiming for an Expanding Equilibrium. It is fair to say that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the aim</span> of these efforts <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">was to correct</span> the alliance’s distinctive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">asymmetry</span> as far as possible and bring about an “expanding equilibrium.” In this light, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we have</span> now <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">arrived at a new juncture</span> with the birth of the Obama administration in the United States and the Hatoyama administration in Japan just as the revised security treaty has marked its fiftieth anniversary. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">This provides a</span> fitting <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">occasion for making the alliance deeper</span> yet. When Jack Crouch, a former assistant to the US president, came to Japan in late January, he spoke of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">opportunities that Japan and the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">were losing by wasting time on the Futenma issue.</span> He said that the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">relocation needed to be guided to a soft landing so that discussions on improving the alliance for the future could be resumed</span> as quickly as possible. Earlier I referred to the sense of resignation among some Americans concerned about the alliance. If their attitude prevails, there is the danger that people will opt in favor of the contracting-equilibrium option. That is, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">both sides could lower</span> their <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">expectations and scale back</span> their <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">responsibilities</span> and obligations. In the background is the sense of disappointment felt by those Americans who over a period of many years devoted themselves to piloting the alliance toward an expanding equilibrium. If they have become dispirited, we Japanese must strive to regain their trust so that they resume their expanding-equilibrium activities. At the same time, we must make sure that there is no wavering on a fundamental but low-profile element of the Japan-US alliance. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">This involves securing deterrent power by placing</span> the US <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">forces stationed in Japan on a stable footing</span>. If this is not done, Japan’s very existence as a state may be altered fundamentally. 


**This ensures political disaster that will cripple the alliance and support for our broader bases in Japan – serve as the absolute key for our power projection**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Ennis ‘10</span>**
[Peter Ennis, Former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, Former Research Fellow @ Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, Long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, Founder of The Oriental Economist, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” June 18th 2010, Dispatch Japan, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>] 
The exchanges of the last week can’t be dismissed as unwarranted airing of diplomatic dirty laundry. By all accounts, the dispute between Washington and Tokyo surrounding the Marine <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Futenma</span> base on Okinawa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">exposed</span> some deep <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">weaknesses in the</span> common understanding, structure, and management of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">alliance.</span> Bader and Green are deeply committed to the notion that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the US-Japan alliance is the key to stability in East Asia</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. They believe the Obama administration handled the Futenma dispute quite well. Clemons and Sneider are also dedicated to the alliance, but fear the Obama administration’s approach to Futenma has done much more harm than good. Understanding this disagreement is critical to ensuring the US-Japan alliance regains and remains on solid footing. ROOT OF DISPUTE: Though the arguments of Bader and Green are persuasive at points, I believe the critiques leveled by Clemons and Sneider are on the mark.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The core of the problem is that</span> much of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington</span>’s “Japan Hand” community, and the broader community of foreign policy “generalists,” <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">did not appreciate or</span> want to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">engage the</span> scope and depth of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">change in Japan</span> represented <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by the</span> coming to power of the Democratic Party (<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">DPJ</span>). One of America’s preeminent experts on Japanese history and security policy, Kenneth Pyle of the University of Washington, recently wrote that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the Futenma dispute reflected an inevitable yearning in Japan for “a new equilibrium for the alliance.” For decades</span>, <span class="underline">[[@http://nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP10/AP10_B_JapanRT.pdf|he wrote]]</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance had</span> essentially <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">made Japan</span> “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a military satellite</span>, some would even say a client state,” of the United States. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">This</span> unnatural arrangement <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">was</span> finally <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">giving way to</span> pent up <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">desires for greater</span> “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">autonomy</span> and self mastery.” The “degree of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">US domination in the relationship has</span> been so <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">extreme</span>,” Pyle wrote, that “a r<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">ecalibration</span> of the alliance <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">was bound to happen</span>.” Rather than accepting the inevitable, and seeking to shape the changes in Japan to be consistent with alliance goals, the halls of power in Washington became filled with the disturbing sentiment that DPJ leaders were basically unwanted and unworthy interlopers in an otherwise cozy and fruitful bilateral arrangement. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The “word” spread that the DPJ was somehow anti-Alliance, was tilting toward China, and was questioning the very cornerstone of the alliance – access to bases, in exchange for American defense of Japan. Diplomatic snubs -- big and small -- hit DPJ leaders from all sides, exacerbating an impression that Hatoyama and his party were unwilling or unable to manage the all-important American alliance. This may not have caused Hatoyama’s demise, but it certainly contributed. BEFORE THE BEGINNING: The problem was evident even before Hatoyama and the DPJ came to power, in September 2009. Toward the end of 2007, after the DPJ had won a huge victory in Upper House elections, legislation was about to expire authorizing the refueling of US and allied naval vessels in the Indian Ocean by Japan’s Maritime Self Defense Forces. The Diet initially adopted the legislation in the wake of 9-11 to aid anti-Taliban and anti-Al Qaeda operations in Afghanistan. In the wake of the US invasion of Iraq, which many leaders in the then-ruling Liberal Democratic Party and the DPJ privately opposed, support for the refueling operations waned. It was common knowledge that the refueling was almost entirely symbolic, with no real operational value. Moreover, even ardently pro-US DPJ legislators were upset by signs that some oil provided to American naval vessels had been utilized for operations around Iraq. Much like in Europe, the Japanese public deeply opposed the US invasion of Iraq, and even then-Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda from the traditional US ally, the LDP, barely kept quiet his lack of enthusiasm for continuing the refueling operations. But the Bush administration, backed by a surprisingly diverse group of American specialists on Japan, barely contained its contempt for the DPJ opposition, and put enormous pressure on Fukuda to force through the refueling authorization. One of the strongest critics of the DPJ at that time was Mike Green, who co-wrote an op-ed for Asahi Shimbun pressing for reauthorization. The co-writer was Kurt Campbell, who was then advising Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, and who is now the State Department’s chief Asia specialist. Support for the Indian Ocean refueling operations became a litmus test for support of the alliance, even though the DPJ’s and other opposition to reauthorization was deeply rooted in the same kind of anger over the Iraq war that both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama had repeatedly expressed. FUTENMA, ANOTHER LITMUS TEST</span>: By the time the Obama administration took office in early 2009, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the Futenma</span> issue <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">was</span> brewing as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a</span>nother supposed <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">litmus test of</span> Japan’s loyalty and commitment to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 6pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Mr. Bader cites Hillary Clinton’s visit to Japan in February 2009, her first step on foreign soil as secretary of state, as a sign of the importance Obama attached to the alliance with Japan. He doesn’t mention that Secretary Clinton’s top agenda item was to sign papers giving the go-ahead for construction of a replacement facility on Okinawa for the Marine Futenma air station. At the time, it was a virtual certainty that the DPJ would oust the LDP in elections several months later, and the DPJ had made clear its desire to have a Futenma replacement facility built outside of Okinawa, perhaps even outside of Japan.</span> Nevertheless, without even so much as a perfunctory review of Japan policy of the sort that is common when a new administration takes office, the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama</span> team <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">pushed ahead for</span> implementation of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the Futenma replacement plan</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">paying no</span> discernable <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">heed to DPJ views</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Prior to her departure, Bader brought Green in to brief Secretary Clinton on Japan. Green, who was a top foreign policy advisor to Republican presidential candidate John McCain in 2008, strongly supported the 2006 plan to build the Futenma replacement on Okinawa. Bader says that US Ambassador John Roos became the point man for US policy in Tokyo. But US policy on Futenma under Obama was set long before Roos was even nominated to be ambassador, much less took up his post in Japan. Bader argued that the Hatoyama government’s questioning of the 2006 Futenma agreement “came against a backdrop of questioning of all US bases in Japan.” But there is not one statement by a Hatoyama government official that proves this assertion. Hatoyama questioned Futenma, not any other US base in Japan. But Bader’s assertion is unfortunately all-too-typical of what became common place in Washington while Hatoyama was in office. Bader asserted that Defense Secretary Bob Gates was unfairly accused of adopting a "confrontational approach to Japan during his October 2009 trip to Tokyo, citing a "leak to Japanese reporters of his comments to Foreign Minister Okada. But Gates had stated in no uncertain terms that efforts to alter the 2006 Futenma agreement would, in Bader’s words, “damage the alliance.” The “leak” Bader cites was a common-place “read out” of the meeting to the Japanese press. Gates left no doubt in his public statements and other gestures about the inflexible nature of his message. American journalists reported Gates’s demeanor as unmistakable.</span> More than any other event, Gates's uncharacteristically gruff and haughty performance during his October visit to Tokyo set the tone for the entire way the Obama administration dealt with the Hatoyama government<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Bader claims the Administration did not reject Hatoyama’s proposal to talk about Futenma. Leaving aside some minor gestures of willingness to discuss burden reduction on Okinawa, the administration never budged from its fundamental, highly dubious insistence that the 2006 Futenma replacement plan was an absolutely critical, irreplaceable part of the overall US strategic posture in East Asia. He asserts that “the President always believed that US-Japan relations are much larger than a single base issue.” That simply doesn’t square with the Administration’s unrelenting stance that, in effect, any questioning of the need for a Futenma replacement facility on Okinawa amounted to disloyalty to the alliance.</span> Administration spokesmen repeatedly grouped Futenma in with all other US facilities in Japan, including the giant Kadena US Air Force Base – home to the largest US air wing in the world, and the vital Yokosuka naval facility, home to the US 7th Fleet – the only US aircraft carrier group the US Navy home ports abroad. These two facilities are the absolute key to the US forward-deployed ability to project power in East Asia<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, along with the 8thArmy and related air and sea units in South Korea, and the huge air, Marine, and naval buildup underway on Guam.</span> Given <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">this vast array of indispensable US power projection capabilities in the region</span>, it was perfectly reasonable to ask just why the Futenma replacement facility is so vital. The US is already redeploying 8,000 ground troops out of South Korea, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">has moved many units further south to make them into a more flexible regional force, and has turned over to South Korea operational control of its own armed forces.</span> Yet the current structure of the Marine presence on Okinawa remained curiously beyond the realm of acceptable discussion, at the insistence of Obama administration officials. Throughout the entire discussion, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the Administration has painfully been unable to answer</span> a simple question: Just <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">what indispensable contribution to deterrence in East Asia do the Marines on Okinawa make</span> that they could not make if based elsewhere? The Marines are not indispensable quelling any potential North Korean assault on the South. ROK ground forces alone number more than the combined personnel of the US Army and US Marine Corps, worldwide. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The</span> main <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">US role in</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Korea</span>n Peninsula contingency <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would be</span> air and naval, largely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">based out of Kadena and Yokosuka</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The job of seizing North Korean ports to facilitate humanitarian relief operations in a crisis, or the job of locating and securing North Korean nuclear materials, could all be conducted by Marines brought into Japan for those purposes, utilizing prepositioned supplies and equipment located on bases agreed to by Tokyo. As it is, a good number of the US Marines nominally based on Okinawa for deterrence in East Asia are often deployed elsewhere, including Afghanistan.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nor are</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Marines on Okinawa to somehow deter China</span>, a job done most effectively, once again, by the US air and naval forces based at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Are the US Marines vital to stability in East Asia? Absolutely. But nowhere is it written in strategic stone that they have to be based on Okinawa.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The need for the Henoko project to replace Futenma largely boils down to one factor: The Marines want to introduce to Okinawa in the coming years the V-22 Osprey, a tiltrotor aircraft capable of both vertical and conventional takeoffs and landings. Why is a new runway needed at Henoko, designated site for the Futenma replacement facility, if the Osprey has vertical capability? Because the aircraft is notoriously unreliable, and the Marines say they need a runway in the event the shift from turboprop to helicopter capability fails. Ironically, the State Department’s Kurt Campbell, who fought so hard for the Futenma project in recent months, was strongly opposed to further development of the Osprey while he worked at the Pentagon over a decade ago. Beyond the Osprey requirements, the Marines also defend their status on Okinawa because of the heavy funding provided by Japan as base support. All things being equal, Okinawa is a highly advantageous location for the US Marines to be based. But all things are not equal, given that 20% of the entirety of Okinawa island’s land mass is taken up by US military facilities.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The</span> heavy <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">concentration on Okinawa of US Forces</span> in Japan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is a political disaster</span> just <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">waiting to happen</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Anyone</span> truly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">interested in the political sustainability of vital US</span> air and naval <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">bases in Japan should be worried about the pent-up animosity</span> all-too-evident <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">on Okinawa</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Indeed, while American officials rightly point to high levels of public support in Japan for the Japan-US alliance, they are less apt to point to the large majority of Japanese – and not just Okinawa residents – who oppose construction of a Futenma replacement facility on the island. Mike Green in his CSIS memorandum argues that Hatoyama gratuitously raised expectations among Okinawans that the Futenma replacement facility might not be built, immensely complicating potential implementation of the bilateral accord announced on May 28. Actually, all Hatoyama did was give voice to resentments that have long been simmering on Okinawa. Bader and others have argued that the current tensions on the Korean Peninsula, and recent incidents of Chinese helicopter harassment of Japanese naval vessels, served to push the Hatoyama government to finally agree to construction of a Futenma replacement facility at Henoko. But Japanese officials close to Hatoyama deny this, and US officials do not provide any evidence to support their assertion. Indeed, Hatoyama from his first days in office made sure to align his government with that of South Korea. Prior to a trilateral summit of the leaders of Japan, South Korea, and China in Beijing last October, Hatoyama first visited Seoul. His intention was to balance a visit to Pyongyang just days before by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao. The DPJ did not need to be “educated” on the dangers posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, nor by China’s territorial designs on natural gas reserves in the East China Sea. MOVING FORWARD: So where do things stand now?</span> Bader insists that the DPJ has matured in its understanding of security issues, thereby placing the Alliance of a stronger footing. In reality, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the danger is very real that US officials will badly misread the national sentiments in Japan</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. As it is, many top DPJ leaders feel they had their collective arms twisted to accept the 2006 Futenma plan, and the experience has left a bitter taste. There is anger in Japan, of course, over the haphazard, slipshod fashion with which Hatoyama managed the Futenma issue. But there is intense awareness of the rumors, innuendo, faulty accusations, and dodgy mistreatment from Washington that further sullied Hatoyama’s stature. For now, Prime Minister Naoto Kan is saying he will back the Futenma replacement plan, but that is largely to keep the Obama administration at bay. There is little support inside the DPJ for spending any political capital on forcing the Futenma plan on to Okinawans. The Kan government, if anything, is somewhat more liberal on security issues than was Hatoyama. Given the political calendar in Tokyo, it will be very difficult to meet the August deadline for finalizing technical details for the planned Henoko facility. Upper House elections will take place in late July, followed by a DPJ presidential contest in September, and later by a critical vote for governor of Okinawa. Without the governor’s support, Kan could be forced to push the plan through with a “special measures law.” Mike Green acknowledges that such high stakes political drama could cause the DPJ to split. That raises the question of whether the US would use its weight to push aside yet another prime minister for the sake of the Henoko project. That’s not a pretty picture.</span> It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes.</span> Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals.</span> Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">shows no signs of seeing the issue this way</span>, however, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">which</span> unfortunately <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">sets the stage down</span> the road <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">for</span> renewed <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">tensions between Washington and Tokyo</span>. 


**The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – It’s key to Asian stability**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Barkdoll ‘06</span>**
[Timothy Barkdoll, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” March 15th 2006, USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The security alliance has served as the cornerstone of U.S.-Japan diplomatic relations</span> for over five decades <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and</span> the strategic location of U.S. forces in <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan is critical to protecting shared</span> economic, diplomatic, and political <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">interests in</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Asia</span>-Pacific region. Therefore, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it is in the best interest of the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and Japan to engage in the reconfiguration of the alliance to produce a more robust, flexible, and symmetric bilateral security arrangement</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">that is capable of securing common national interests well into the 21st Century. Recent proposals for alliance transformation, realignment of U.S. forces, and Japanese constitutional revision indicate that the United States and Japan have taken a significant leap towards securing that future. Application of the following recommendations is required to realize the successful transformation of the alliance. Implement SCC-Proposed Transformational Changes</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The U.S.-Japan</span> security <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">alliance needs to be reconfigured so that the</span> bilateral <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">partners participate in</span> a more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">symmetric relationship</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The end product of the transformation is a fully functioning alliance in which each nation assumes equal roles and balanced distribution of responsibilities in pursuit of shared national strategic interests. As new and complex security threats emerge at an ever increasing rate, the United States, Japan, and the</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">alliance can no</span> 22 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">longer afford</span> to rely on <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">incremental growth</span> spurred by the latest crisis. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Japanese government currently lacks the policy mechanisms needed to execute timely and effective security cooperation with the U.S. in response to the rapidly evolving threat environment. Wholesale implementation of the proposed transformation, U.S. force structure realignments, and Japanese constitutional revision is critical in determining the future relevance of the alliance.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The key to a stronger alliance is</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">successful</span> execution of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">transformation</span> as proposed by the SCC. A successful transformation depends on a more robust Japanese military posture, implementation of flexible Japanese policy mechanisms to facilitate a more reliable security cooperation with the U.S., and an elevated Japanese presence in Asia-Pacific and globally<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Required changes to Japan’s military posture and legislative procedures necessitate constitutional revision meeting the approval of Japan’s popular vote. Unfortunately, there is a decreasing tolerance among the Japanese people for the inconveniences associated with U.S. military presence.136 The proposed realignment of U.S. forces in Japan is intended to ease the burden of host nation support on the Japanese public and provide Tokyo the public support platform to seek constitutional revision. Following the October 2005 SCC conference, Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld summarized the U.S. perspective on these issues: Japan has the second largest economy on the face of the Earth. The people of Japan benefit greatly from the international system. Clearly Japan has an interest in the success of the international system. With an interest in the success of that system which benefits the Japanese people, it seems to me it is appropriate for Japan to find ways in the 21st Century that they can contribute to making the system successful 137 Rally Japanese Public Support</span> Rallying Japanese public support for a more capable and proactive SDF, constitutional revision, and continued support for U.S. forces in Japan is critical to the future of the alliance. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">As</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">intolerance</span> for inconveniences associated with host nation support <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has gained</span> significant <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">momentum</span> in the national political arena, it is increasingly difficult for Japanese politicians to convince their constituents that they sacrifice for the benefit of Japan’s national security. 138 Therefore, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it is imperative that</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">bilateral partners continue to work together</span> to educate the Japanese people, especially in the cities and prefectures that host U.S. bases, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that there exists</span> an important <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">interdependence between the alliance</span>, the U.S. military presence in Japan, and Japan’s national interests<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The message to the Japanese people must emphasize that the proposed changes and military operations are necessary for Japan’s national security and are not being considered to simply acquiesce bilateral security interests of the United States. The 23 perspective of the argument used is critical.139 For its part, as Japan struggles with remnants of its pacifist culture, antimilitarism, and growing public discontent for support of U.S. forces, the United States must respect and formally acknowledge that reexamination of Article 9 and ratification of a new constitution is a domestic issue to be decided exclusively by the people of Japan.</span> Public <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">support is</span> sometimes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">best obtained</span> when rhetoric is supported <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by real action</span>. Proposed <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">U.S. force</span> structure <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">realignment should</span> help <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">alleviate</span> some <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japanese concerns</span> for noise, pollution, safety, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and an expanding U.S. military footprint</span>. However, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Okinawa</span>, as it has been since 1995, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will continue to be the epicenter of</span> domestic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">discontent over</span> support provided to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">U.S. forces</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The transfer of 7,000 Marines to Guam, further consolidation of the remaining forces, shared use of U.S. military installations with the SDF, and the return of substantial land tracts to Japanese sovereignty will do little to alleviate Okinawa’s opposition to the proposed Futenma resolution. Since the October 2005 SCC Futenma relocation plan includes the reclamation of a portion of Oura Bay, a contentious issue in the original proposal, tensions will remain high in the Okinawa prefecture. Balancing Okinawan desires with operational capabilities will prove to be a difficult task but one of critical importance considering the deterrence, crisis response, regional stability, and international security provided for by the U.S. forces forward deployed to Okinawa. Conclusion The stability of the Asia-Pacific region is of critical importance to the national interests of both Japan and the United States.</span> This <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">stability is</span> now <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">challenged by new threats associated with North Korea, Taiwan, and China</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The</span> U.S.-Japan security <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">alliance has evolved as the cornerstone of regional stability</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and remains the best mechanism by which the world’s two leading economies can pursue overlapping national interests. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese governments have made remarkable progress toward reconfiguring the alliance. However,</span> the materialization of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a New Japan</span>, one <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that assumes a</span> more prominent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">role in</span> its <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">self-defense</span>, regional <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">stability, and</span> global <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">influence</span>, along with full implementation of the transformational changes for the alliance, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">requires</span> mustering <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">popular support</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> for an unprecedented revision of Japan’s constitution and, more specifically, Article 9. The future of the alliance will depend upon the popular vote of the Japanese people reflecting their view of how critical the Japan-U.S. security alliance is to securing Japan’s national interests. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, the Deputy Director General in the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, astutely observed that</span> “[t]he <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">deterrence</span> and capabilities of the 24 alliance <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are not measured</span> solely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by the number of U.S. forces</span> stationed in Japan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">but by</span> the combination of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">political will, local support, and</span> capability of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">working closely together</span>.”<span style="font-size: 6pt;">140 Japan and the United States have demonstrated the political will and an unprecedented capability to work closely together.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The future</span> strength <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">of the alliance will</span> therefore <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">depend on</span> local <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japanese support</span> for the alliance and constitutional revision – <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with Okinawa presenting the most significant challenge</span> in that pursuit. 

**__Third, effectiveness__ – Even if the alliance doesn’t formally collapse – the Futenma controversy will prevent focus on regional security issues**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Klingner ‘09</span>**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]</span>] AP
The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The FRF controversy has</span>, in the words of one U.S. official, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">"sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues.</span> The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one.</span> The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce </span>the current <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">tension </span>level <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and </span>to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">refocus </span>on transforming <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance to address security challenges.</span>
**The U.S. should scale back the marine presence on Okinawa to just the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit – That’s necessary to prevent a backlash against all of our bases in Japan**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">O’Hanlon ‘01</span>**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -->half of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">marines on Okinawa</span> are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">exceed all other worldwide Marine</span> Corps <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">deployments</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">combined. Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs. But</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the advantages of the deployment</span> -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a</span> diplomatic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">show of U.S. commitment</span> to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized. The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential. By default</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">, </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">putting them on Okinawa</span> effectively <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">consumes operational resources</span> that could be used elsewhere<span style="font-size: 6pt;">: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises. In addition, the </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">marines on Okinawa are not</span> so much <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">forward-deployed</span> as they are marooned. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Okinawa</span> itself <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is not at risk</span>, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">ships</span> based in Japan can <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">transport only the</span> 2,000 marines of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">31st Marine Expeditionary Unit</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">, which patrols the region, </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to areas of actual threat</span> elsewhere in the Pacific. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The other</span> 15,000 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">marines</span> on Okinawa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could not quickly deploy</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">they</span> would have <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">no advantage over infantry</span> soldiers airlifted <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">from the United States</span> or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">so many marines on Okinawa</span> also <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">places</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">major strain on U.S.-Japan relations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. </span>By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the U</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">nited </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">tates </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">risks causing a backlash and</span> ultimately <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">losing everything, including</span> those <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">facilities with</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">great</span>est <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">military benefit</span> for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington should</span> therefore <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">scale back</span> the number of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">marines on</span> Okinawa to about 5,000. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use. Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy. </span></span>


===1AC – Bronx – Alliance Advantage – East Asia Scenario=== 
**__Scenario One – East Asia__**
**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities and allows for regional interdependence—only cooperation can address all major threats**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Rapp ‘04</span>**
[<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span></span>“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
This monograph began by making the assertion that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance </span>can and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">must become more than</span> simply <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a </span>narrow <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">defense pact</span> if both the United States and Japan want <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to be successful in shaping the security </span>future <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">of East Asia </span>in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the United States working in close concert. There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. This <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">power sharing could result in an alliance</span> well <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">suited to handle</span>, in a positive manner, the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the</span> character of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">rise of China</span> to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">increased military capability will </span>vastly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance.</span> As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, “The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.” <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">207 </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Working together</span> with one voice <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">may be the best means of engaging China</span> in the coming decades, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">preventing </span>the opening of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">an exploitable rift, precluding the </span>forceful <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland</span>, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">208 </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the</span> current <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">working together</span> within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication (SLOC) running through Southeast and East Asia. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">209 </span>About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">210 </span>For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">211 </span>Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">212 </span>At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">213 </span>This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea. Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">214 </span>Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">two alliance partners could expand their </span>tight <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cooperation into associated security realms </span>within the region. WMD <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics </span>are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia.</span> The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. Finally, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the alliance can provide </span>the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">liberalism throughout the region. Success </span>for the United States and Japan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will </span>increasingly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">be measured in </span>terms of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">an increased community of </span>vibrant, paciﬁc, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">free-market democracies in Asia.</span> Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region. Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. In the long run, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">this liberalism backed by </span>the concerted power of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region.</span>

**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than __anywhere__ else – a strong alliance is key to check**
Ikenberry and Mastandun**o ‘03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The region is characterized by </span>major <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">shifts in </span>the balance of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">power</span>, skewed distributions of economic and political power within and between countries, political and cultural <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">heterogeneity,</span> growing but still relatively <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">low </span>levels of intraregional <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and</span> widespread <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">territorial disputes that combine</span> natural resource issues <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with </span>postcolonial <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nationalism.'</span> If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great</span>, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">mistrust </span>between two or more potential adversaries <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">can lead </span>each side <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to </span>take <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">precautionary </span>and defensively motivated <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">measures that are perceived as offensive </span>threats. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">This can lead to countermeasures </span>in kind, thus <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">ratcheting up regional tensions</span>, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment. If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies. Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' Perhaps even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">more important</span> in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">historically based </span>mistrust and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">animosity </span>among regional actors) and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, which make even defensive weapons in the region appear threatening for Chinese security. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and </span>prevent spirals of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role</span>, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">scholars</span>, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">agree</span> with U.S. officials and local leaders that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a major factor in containing</span> potential <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">tensions</span> in East Asia <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is</span> the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">not only</span> is the maintenance of a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">U.S. presence in Japan </span>critical, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes </span>also has potentially important implications for regional stability. 
**Most likely scenario for __nuclear escalation__**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nye et al. 2K</span>**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Major war in Europe is inconceivable</span> for at least a generation, but the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features </span>some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear-armed major powers</span>, and several nuclear-capable states. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Hostilities </span>that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could</span> directly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">involve the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates in a major conflict could occur <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">at</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in </span>the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Taiwan </span>Strait. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation.</span> In addition, lingering <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">turmoil in Indonesia</span>, the world’s fourth-largest nation, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">threatens stability in Southeast Asia.</span> The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">In this</span> promising but also potentially dangerous <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is </span>more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">important </span>than ever. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">With</span> the world’s second-largest economy and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a well equipped </span>and competent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of </span>the U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">involvement in Asia. </span>The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. 


===1AC – Bronx – Alliance Advantage – North Korea Scenario=== 
**__Scenario Two – North Korea__**
**Cooperation with Japan key to curb North Korean proliferation – Japan is uniquely influential**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Cronin ‘05</span>**
[Richard P. Cronin “The North Korean Nuclear Threat and the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Perceived Interests, Approaches, and Prospects”. The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs Vol.29:1, Winter 2005. Pg. 53-54, SM]
The Koizumi government and its supporters in the national Diet (parliament) have numerous reasons to maintain a strong U.S.-Japan alliance, but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the threat posed by North Korea is</span> arguably <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the most important consideration</span>. This point was made clear in the report of the special advisory Council on Security and Defense Capabilities, which was delivered to the prime minister in early October 2004. Noting that both Russia and China possess nuclear weapons, and that North Korea had not abandoned its nuclear ambitions, the report warned: “The problem of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">WMD</span> [weapons of mass destruction] <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">development, including North Korean nuclear weapons,</span> and the development and deployment of ballistic missiles <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could represent a direct threat to Japan, and instability on the Korean Peninsula may</span> yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">become a major destabilizing factor</span> affecting the international relations of East Asia.” The report underscored <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the critical role played by the U.S.-Japan alliance, especially American “extended deterrence,”</span> shorthand for the American nuclear umbrella.5 At the same time that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan has</span> significantly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">expanded its role in the alliance</span>, it has also begun to increase its own defense self-sufficiency, and even considered, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">but thus far rejected,</span> acquiring a limited offensive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">capability to attack North Korean missiles</span> on their launch pads.6 In March 2003 Japan launched into orbit the first two of four planned national reconnaissance satellites to enable an independent monitoring of North Korea’s missile activities. It also constructed a new intelligence headquarters with expanded capabilities for intelligence collection and analysis. In late 2003, in a move that created remarkably little opposition, the Koizumi government decided to budget for the acquisition of two different U.S. anti-missile systems- ground and sea-based-beginning in 2006.7 Given the crucial importance of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan’s long-standing offer</span> to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">provide massive economic and financial assistance following the normalization of bilateral relations</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Tokyo’s cooperation remains essential to a diplomatic resolution of the confrontation</span>. Likewise, after China, which controls North Korea’s economic lifelines but opposes sanctions, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan is the country best positioned to apply economic and financial pressure to a regime that is desperately seeking to revive its economy enough to maintain political stability. Japan has continued to deploy both the economic “carrot” and the sanctions “stick.”</span>


**North Korean nuclearization causes extinction**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Hayes and Hamel-Green ‘09</span>**
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>] 
The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">consequences of </span>failing to address the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">proliferation </span>threat posed <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">North Korea</span> developments, and related political and economic issues, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are serious</span>, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">there is the possibility of nuclear attack1</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities.</span> On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. </span>But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate</span> far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature </span>than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">millions of people will die from hunger</span>…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Millions of refugees would flee </span>the affected regions. The direct impacts, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the </span>follow-on <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison.</span> How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships</span>5, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with </span>subsequent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including </span>possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states.</span> The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. North Korea is currently believed to have sufficient plutonium stocks to produce up to 12 nuclear weapons.6 If and when it is successful in implementing a uranium enrichment program - having announced publicly that it is experimenting with enrichment technology on September 4, 20097 in a communication with the UN Security Council - it would likely acquire the capacity to produce over 100 such weapons. Although some may dismiss Korean Peninsula proliferation risks on the assumption that the North Korean regime will implode as a result of its own economic problems, food problems, and treatment of its own populace, there is little to suggest that this is imminent. If this were to happen, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">there would be the risk of nuclear weapons falling into hands of non-state actors in the disorder and chaos that would ensue.</span> Even without the outbreak of nuclear hostilities on the Korean Peninsula in either the near or longer term, North Korea has every financial incentive under current economic sanctions and the needs of its military command economy to export its nuclear and missile technologies to other states. Indeed, it has already been doing this for some time. The Proliferation Security Initiative may conceivably prove effective in intercepting ship-borne nuclear exports, but it is by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted. Given the high stakes involved, North Korean proliferation, if unaddressed and unreversed, has the potential to destabilize the whole East Asian region and beyond. Even if a nuclear exchange does not occur in the short term, the acute sense of nuclear threat that has been experienced for over five decades by North Koreans as a result of US strategic deterrence is now likely to be keenly felt by fellow Koreans south of the 38th Parallel and Japanese across the waters of the Sea of Japan. China, too, must surely feel itself to be at risk from North Korean nuclear weapons, or from escalation that might ensue from next-use in the Korean Peninsula resulting not only in the environmental consequences noted above, but in regime collapse and massive refugee flows.


**Risk of escalation is high – current high tensions risk accidents that escalate to global nuclear war**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Stratfor ‘10</span>**
(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]]</span>)
Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is interested in another war on the Korean Peninsula. Both sides will posture, but at the end of the day, neither benefits from a major outbreak of hostilities. And despite the specter of North Korean troops streaming under the DMZ through tunnels and wreaking havoc behind the lines in the south (a scenario for which there has undoubtedly been significant preparation), neither side has any intention of invading the other. So <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the real issue is the potential for escalation</span> — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">or an accident</span> that could precipitate escalation — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own</span> national (and contradictory) definitions of where <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">disputed boundaries</span> lie and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with rules of engagement loosened, the potential for sudden and rapid escalation is quite real.</span> Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall. For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War. During that time it was feared that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a second Korean War could all too easily escalate into and a thermonuclear World War III</span>, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward. Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But current <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">tensions are quickly escalating to a level unprecedented in the post-Cold War period</span>, and the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further</span>. 


===1AC – Bronx – China Advantage=== 
**<span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Three – China</span>__</span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is rising peacefully – stronger influence in East Asia is inevitable – attempting to contain it guarantees US gets entangled in conflict</span></span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow ‘09</span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 2/24/09 “Balancing Beijing” http://nationalinterest.org/article/balancing-beijing-3021, SM]</span></span>
Yet the United States and Soviet Union spent most of the cold war sparring for influence in the Third World to little meaningful effect. Money was spent and lives were lost, but in the end it didn't much matter who was numero uno in Vientiane, Kinshasa, Luanda or Managua. It matters even less today. As my Cato colleague Ben Friedman puts it, "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">There is little that China can do</span> in Africa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to</span> make it stronger or to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">damage U.S. interests</span>." If Beijing wishes to invest heavily in places with little geopolitical heft, why should the United States object? Even more important, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington needs to back away</span> from any kind of arms race with the PRC. The latest Pentagon Joint Operating Environment 2008 ominously declared that while Beijing doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." The annual Pentagon assessment of PRC military spending appears to show Beijing's conscious effort to build a force capable of deterring American intervention against China in East Asia. As a result, Aaron Friedberg, until recently Vice President Cheney's chief foreign-policy adviser, worries that the balance of power "is beginning to shift in way that, under the wrong set of circumstances, could increase the risk of miscalculation and conflict." Yet the question is, what balance of power? <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Beijing poses no threat to America</span>'s homeland <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">or</span> even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Pacific possessions and will not</span> do so <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">for decades</span>, if ever. The United States possesses a far stronger military to start-eleven carrier groups to none, for instance-spends five or more times as much as the PRC on defense (excluding the costs of Afghanistan and Iraq) and is allied with most important industrial states in Asia and Europe. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">There is no Chinese threat</span> or potential threat to America. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">At issue is relative influence in East Asia</span> and the security of Washington's friends in that region. Yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the PRC so far has been assertive rather than aggressive and those nations</span>, particularly Japan and South Korea, could do much more individually and collectively for regional security. Washington should not hesitate to sell arms to friendly states, including Taiwan, despite Chinese protests, but should leave them with responsibility for their own defense. Of course, a policy of continued restraint by Beijing will make it far easier for the United States to back away. In any case, there is little that Washington can do, at least at acceptable cost, to maintain U.S. dominance along China's borders, as the PRC-whose economy already ranks number two or three, depending on the measure, in the world-continues to grow. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington would have to devote</span> an ever <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">larger</span> amount of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">resources to the military</span>, in the midst of economic crisis, to ensure its ability to overcome far more limited Chinese capabilities. Even then, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Beijing is unlikely to</span> forever <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">accept U.S. hegemony. Confrontation</span> if not conflict <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would be likely</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The better option would be to temper America's</span> geopolitical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">pretensions and accept a more influential PRC</span> in its own region. China will grow in power, irrespective of Washington's wishes. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">America's</span> chief <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">objective should be to ensure that this rise is peaceful</span>, as Beijing has promised. U.S.-China diplomatic relations passed the thirty-year mark last fall. The relationship has survived great challenges and is likely to face even greater ones in the future. But despite inevitable differences between the two nations, much depends upon strengthening their ties. The twenty-first century will turn out far differently-and positively-if America and the PRC prove willing to accommodate each other's economic and geopolitical ambitions. 

**Unipolar management of China will inevitable fail – the US should allow regional powers to engage China – US containment efforts force China to rise violently**
**Bandow ‘09**
[Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 1/12/09 “First Among Equals” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/first-among-equals-2968]]</span>, SM]
What kind of a power is Beijing likely to become? Chinese policymakers emphasize that they plan a "peaceful rise," but their ambitions loom large. Argues //JOE 2008//, while the People's Republic of China doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." More ominously, argues the Joint Forces Command, "The Chinese are working hard to ensure that if there is a military confrontation with the United States sometime in the future, they will be ready." Yet this assessment is far less threatening than it sounds. The PRC is not capable (nor close to being capable) of threatening vital U.S. interests-conquering American territory, threatening our liberties and constitutional system, cutting off U.S. trade with the rest of the world, dominating Eurasia and turning that rich resource base against America. After all, the United States has the world's most sophisticated and powerful nuclear arsenal; China's intercontinental delivery capabilities are quite limited. America has eleven carrier groups while Beijing has none. Washington is allied with most every other industrialized state and a gaggle of the PRC's neighbors. China is surrounded by nations with which it has been at war in recent decades: Russia, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and India. Indeed, today Beijing must concentrate on defending itself. In pointing to the PRC's investment in submarines, the //JOE 2008// acknowledges: "The emphasis on nuclear submarines and an increasingly global Navy in particular, underlines worries that the U.S. Navy possesses the ability to shut down China's energy imports of oil-80% of which go through the straits of Malacca." The Chinese government is focused on preventing American intervention against it in its own neighborhood, not on contesting U.S. dominance elsewhere in the world, let alone in North America. Washington almost certainly will be unable to thwart Beijing, at least at acceptable cost. China needs spend only a fraction of America's military outlays to develop a deterrent capability-nuclear sufficiency to forestall nuclear coercion, submarine and missile forces to sink U.S. carriers, and anti-satellite and cyber-warfare weapons to blind and disrupt American forces. Washington could ill afford to intervene in East Asia against the PRC so equipped. Such a military is well within China's reach. Notes //JOE 2008//: "by conservative calculations it is easily possible that by the 2030s China could modernize its military to reach a level of approximately one quarter of current U.S. capabilities without any significant impact on its economy." Thus, absent the unlikely economic and social collapse of China, in not too many years Beijing will able to enforce its "no" to America. Washington must reconsider its response. U.S. taxpayers already spend as much as everyone else on earth on the military. It's a needless burden, since promiscuous intervention overseas does not make Americans safer. To maintain today's overwhelming edge over progressively more powerful militaries in China, Russia, India and other states would require disproportionately larger military outlays in the United States. It's a game Washington cannot win. A better alternative would be to more carefully delineate vital interests, while treating lesser issues as matters for diplomacy rather than military action. Equally important, the American government should inform its allies that their security is in the first instance their responsibility. Washington should act as an offshore balancer to prevent domination of Eurasia by a hostile hegemon. But the United States should not attempt to coercively micro-manage regional relations. Stepping back today would reduce pressure on Beijing to engage in a sustained arms buildup to limit U.S. intervention in the future. If the PRC nevertheless moved forward, its neighbors could take note and respond accordingly. Encouraging China to keep its rise peaceful is in everyone's interest. Despite the many challenges facing U.S. policy, America retains an extraordinarily advantageous position in today's global order. Eventually, the United States is likely to fall to merely first among many-the globe's leading state, but no longer the hyper- or unipower, as America has been called. The sooner Washington begins preparing for this new role, the smoother will be the transition. 


**Even if relative indicators show U.S. preeminence is sustainable – our regional influence will inevitably diminish – only increased bilateral cooperation with Japan and engagement with multilateral institutions in Asia can maintain U.S. influence**
**Nye et al. ‘07**
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP
We would be remiss if we did not also acknowledge that one of the most important variables affecting East Asia for good or for ill in the future relates to the positioning of the United States. Though there is little doubt that in virtually every measure of national power, the United States’ preeminence will be sustained through 2020, we cannot discount the possibility that our relative influence for shaping events in Asia will be diminished over time. This is far from certain, but in order to keep a leadership role in the region, U.S. policymakers must remain vigilant to encroaching challenges to our influence. In other words, U.S. advantages in Asia are impermanent and should be treated as such. First, the United States must view itself as an Asia-Pacific power and decide to take part in all aspects of life in Asia. At the best of times, the United States is seen by many Asians as a capricious power, too often driven by narrow domestic interests and ideological imperatives. But even worse in the minds of many is a tendency for prolonged inattention to Asia. Arguably, the United States presently suffers from a strategic preoccupation with another region of the world. If engagement in Asia remains episodic, or lacks sufficient senior-level involvement on the part of U.S. officials, a transition in the region’s power hierarchy is possible. Even absent precipitous events, a gradual erosion of U.S. influence could occur if China continues to extend its reach and if the region as a whole loses confidence in the staying power of the United States. The challenges for the United States to remain active in the life of Asia are many. There are serious questions as to whether or not the United States will have the fiscal and military wherewithal to operate effectively in the region by 2020. Large budget deficits and a growing national debt, military overstretch, and the press of domestic requirements (everything from health care and social security for an aging population to the need to rehabilitate public education) all could impact U.S. capabilities for influencing Asia, irrespective of Washington’s intentions. Nevertheless, there are solutions available for policymakers in the United States who are determined to retain influence in Asia. But only part of the solution will be found in the deft management of bilateral and multilateral relationships in the region. A sober-minded self-awareness with respect to our challenges is also required as we go forward. We must not only work to get our own economic house in order but must address our military requirements. We noted Japan’s ability to bring soft power to the problems of the region and beyond. We recognize the need to improve our ability to bring both hard power and soft power to the table. The Asia-Pacific region is geographically dominated by great oceans, seas, and strategic straits. It is a naval service theater, which will require the United States to continue to pursue military procurements, as well as adopt the appropriate associated military strategies that fit a naval service theater. 

**Our Marine presence uniquely signals a strategy of military dominance – creates the perception that we are preparing for a land war with China – overwhelms alt causes**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 12pt;">Mochizuki ‘96</span></span>**
[Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96 “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]
However, just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China,</span> put down by the West for two centuries, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is cognizant of its growing strength</span> and intends to be recognized for it. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">It</span> also <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has territorial disputes</span> with many neighbors besides Taiwan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and a perception that the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">wants to box it in</span> militarily and politically. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Similar conditions</span> -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">produce World War I</span>. Under these circumstances, the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance. Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review. But </span>there are risks to sticking with the status quo. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed</span> so starkly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">on Okinawa</span> last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has been developing</span> ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen. Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their country, essentially still at Cold War levels, should be reduced<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, </span>past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too. At this point, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by</span> changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a reduction in</span> the number of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Marine combat units on Okinawa</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance. The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. </span>Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for. The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea. But all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. As for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States. Other potential disputes with China should not be addressed militarily. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the United States has no</span> long-term <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">interest in fighting land wars in Asia</span>. By <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">committing ourselves to</span> what would be primarily <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a maritime</span> defense <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">strategy</span>, we <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would deter China</span> from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation. If China some day caused military trouble in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments. But these are matters where <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">hyper-vigilance now is unneeded, and</span> is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">only</span> likely to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">make things worse</span>. Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.) Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy</span>, it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. </span>In the longer term, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner</span> to the United States. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war. </span>In these tense times in Asian politics, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China</span> -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders, but that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region. And, by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer. Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we should get our </span>post-Cold War Asian <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis</span>. 


**The plan allows for regional countries to engage China – it restructures the relationship with Japan – allowing for a more assertive Japanese foreign policy**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Ikenberry & Kupchan ‘10</span>**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, U.S. officials have reacted with considerable discomfort to the more independent and assertive policies of the new Japanese government. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo in November that the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg last week welcomed the "expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--it is sorely misguided. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">In questioning </span>the location of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China </span>not entirely mediated by Washington, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the new government </span>is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. On the contrary, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is seeking to update the alliance to the new </span>political and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">strategic environment </span>in the region. Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo, not Washington. Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China's rise is reshaping the region.</span> It has become Japan's largest export market. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, </span>opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan is </span>in many respects <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe </span>after the fall of the Berlin Wall. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">With the end of the Cold War, the E</span>uropean <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">U</span>nion both <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">quickened </span>its pace of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">regional integration and yearned for more autonomy</span> from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war in 2003, and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">E</span>urope no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe</span> that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan needs to similarly update its alliance</span> with the United States, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan has the potential to be a regional leader</span> on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries </span>may finally <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II</span>. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance </span>with the U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration.</span> A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. 

**An assertive Japanese foreign policy allows for a multilateral balance of power in Asia– creates regional peace and stability**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Sukma ‘10</span>**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have</span> further <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by </span>the rise of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China and </span>the arrival of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">India </span>as two new major powers, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan has struggled to prove its relevance</span> in the regional strategic equation. It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is </span>very much <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. </span>China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">some sort of multi-polar structure </span>in East Asia <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would ensure </span>that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the region continues to enjoy </span>the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">stability </span>it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. </span>A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community.

**And only multilateral institutions can maintain a peaceful Chinese rise – the alternative is an imperialist China**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nye et al. ‘07</span>**
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">A</span> profound <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">transformation</span> has been unfolding in China, one <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that points to</span> the possibility of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China emerging as the dominant regional power</span>. Even factoring in the possibility of disruption, China will continue to be an engine of regional growth and global dynamism<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. China’s growing comprehensive national power is already well reflected in its assertive diplomacy aimed at shaping the strategic environment around its borders</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">One</span> key <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">question for the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan</span>, and all of Asia is: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">how will China use its new</span>found <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">capabilities and resources</span> as it matures as an economic and military power?<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Since our October 2000 report was issued, perhaps the most significant event in the Pacific has been the explosive economic growth of China. China’s trade-to- GDP ratio has nearly doubled in the past 10 years, making it much more reliant on the external sector—U.S. and Asian markets in particular and raw materials from Australia, North America, and increasingly the Middle East. While China’s economic success presents opportunities for all, there are also emerging costs, such as a drawing away of capital and jobs that would have otherwise gone to its Asian neighbors—those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) especially. China will grow, but its growth will not necessarily be a linear “rise” without complications.</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 10pt;">China has massive internal challenges</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that include an aging society, a weak social safety net, large and growing disparities in development, and systemic corruption—all of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">which have resulted in social unease</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. China’s leaders also are faced with growing labor unrest, a weak banking and financial system, lingering ethnic disputes, environmental problems almost unimaginable to Westerners, and vulnerability to epidemic disease. Together, these challenges have caused Chinese leaders to focus internally, thereby putting a premium on external stability.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China seeks a stable, peaceful international environment</span> in which <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to develop</span> its comprehensive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">national power</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 5pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> China needs to avoid any disruption of its access to national resources (particularly oil and gas) and foreign investment, and it can ill afford major diversions of resources to causes unrelated to the objectives of economic growth and public welfare.</span> That said, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nationalism is growing in China</span>, as elsewhere in the region. Among China’s leaders, nationalism is likely viewed as a useful tool to muster support for the Communist Party, particularly should economic growth falter. Although reliance on nationalism poses risks for the regime, Chinese leaders will likely continue to tap into nationalist sentiment to bolster their own legitimacy<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. This may place limitations on the quality of interactions the United States and Japan can expect with China for the foreseeable future. Also limiting the quality of interactions are differences in values.</span> The most profound of these relate to differences over human rights, religious freedoms, and political systems. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The values gap</span> matters in the most consequential form because it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">gives rise to a “trust deficit.”</span> In the case of China, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the nexus between values and foreign policy could negatively affect U.S. interests. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">This is manifest in China’s behavior toward countries like Iran, Sudan, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, and Uzbekistan. It is evident that China is engaged in relationship building, which may enable continued irresponsible behavior on the part of other governments. One of the key features of Chinese foreign policy is a requirement to establish secure, reliable access to energy resources that lay beyond China’s borders. Its large and rising energy deficit and lingering distrust of free markets foster a perception among Chinese leaders that increasing reliance on foreign energy creates vulnerabilities. In the hope of securing the energy required to support China’s domestic demand, especially Persian Gulf oil to meet future transportation demands, China has embarked on an effort to promote supply diversification as well as overseas equity investment. The United States, Japan, and others will be further affected by China’s surging demand for energy and raw materials. Some of the consequences will likely be negative: higher prices for foreign crude, increasing environmental degradation, and competition over disputed maritime boundaries. But there will also be new opportunities for cooperation on energy efficiency, “clean-coal technology,” and nuclear power. It may also be the case that China’s increasing reliance on the outside world will present the United States and its friends with foreign policy opportunities. The spectacular economic growth of China has allowed it to make major investments in the military.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s intensive military modernization</span> efforts <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are focused on</span> preparing for a possible <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">conflict with Taiwan</span>, and its efforts are paying off. China is developing the ability to fight a high-tech war along its periphery. China has, for example, developed remarkable coordination among critical military communities—those that do acquisition, training, logistics, doctrine/strategy, etc. Historically, such coordination has proven to be a formula for militaries to improve their capabilities quickly. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">China has also begun to break down some of the barriers between its services, although it has not yet developed the ability to conduct truly joint military operations</span>. As China continues to expand its military capabilities, it is likely to place greater emphasis on the development of a blue-water navy. This flows in part from the perception that it needs to protect energy sources and sea lanes. The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">modernization and growth</span> of China <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will insure its power and affluence, but the direction it takes remains an open question</span>. In 2020, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China could be</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">responsible</span> stakeholder, with increased political freedoms and liberal institutions that support economic openness and make for more responsible treatment of its people and its neighbors. On the other hand, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s conduct could be marked by mercantilism</span>, with illiberal institutions, chauvinistic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nationalism</span>, and corruption <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that</span> distort international norms and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">threaten neighbors</span>. China will continue to face discrete decision points in the global arena. In such instances, it is important that China has incentives to make those choices that lead it down a path of peaceful integration and benign competition. 


**War involving China and the US is uniquely likely – its uniquely likely to go global nuclear**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Dodge ‘05</span>**
[Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]
In the summer of 2005, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chinese</span> Major-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">General</span> Zhu <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chenghu threatened the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates with nuclear attack, stating that, “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If the Americans draw their missiles</span> and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we will</span> have to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">respond with nuclear weapons</span>.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the PRC</span> realizes that it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">must be able to deter U.S. military intervention</span>. The idea is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to convince the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates and the world <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that China is both capable and</span>, more importantly, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">willing to inflict grievous casualties</span> on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Efforts</span> toward this end <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">have been manifested</span> over recent years <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">in</span> the form of greatly increased <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">military spending</span>, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear weapons, and</span> the formation of a<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;"> naval</span> warfighting strategy that emphasizes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">asymmetric attacks</span> on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons</span> should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation</span>. Put simply, this piece argues that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s</span> warfighting <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">doctrine is</span> misguided, unrealistic, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">dangerous</span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines.</span> Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it makes nuclear war with the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates far more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">likely</span>. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s acquisition of advanced</span> foreign <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">weaponry</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">its expectation that the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will back down</span> at the first hint of casualties, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and its</span> belief that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear weapons</span> can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China may act on</span> its <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">irredentist policies</span> when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition</span>. Finally, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the loss</span> of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will </span>cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">leav</span>ing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">only nuclear options</span>. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces</span> in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">inadvertent escalation</span>. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are greatly germane to</span> any future <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Sino-U.S. conflict.</span> It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. 


**Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation – countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Straits Times 2K</span>**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Conflict </span>on such a scale <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would embroil other countries</span> far and near <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and</span> -- horror of horrors -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">raise the possibility of a nuclear war. </span>Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire.</span> And the conflagration may not end there as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">opportunistic powers </span>elsewhere <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">may </span>try to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">overturn the </span>existing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">world order.</span> With the US distracted, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Russia may seek to redefine Europe's</span> political <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">landscape. </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">balance of power in the Middle East may be </span>similarly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">upset</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> by the likes of Iraq. </span>In south Asia, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">hostilities between India and Pakistan</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 6pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could enter a</span> new and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">dangerous phase.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. </span>If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China possesses</span> about 20 nuclear <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">warheads that can destroy major </span>American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cities.</span> Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. </span>Major-General Pan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Zhangqiang</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 6pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">said </span>military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory </span>if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span> There would be no victors in such a war.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> While the prospect of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> might seem inconceivable, it </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cannot be ruled out</span> entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. 
**And, Major Powers will get involved – escalates globally**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Hunkovic ‘09</span>**
[Lee J. Hunkovic, Professor @ The American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America,” 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]
A <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">war between China</span>, Taiwan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict</span> and a third world war, therefore, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">many countries</span> other than the primary actors <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could be affected</span> by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">if they were drawn in</span>to the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China</span> were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could</span> then plan to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">attack Japan and begin</span> a policy of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">aggressive expansionism</span> in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">which could</span> in turn <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">create an international standoff</span> and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">in a full-scale conflict</span>, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.

**Regional military dominance is a futile strategy – the US should allow regional powers to engage in multilateral cooperation – best way to maintain stability**
**Bandow ‘10**
[Doug, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” available at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617]]</span>, SM]
The Obama administration should pursue a different course, a transformational agenda, emphasizing economic integration while promoting military detachment. America still has a major economic role to play, but should increasingly devolve defense responsibilities on countries in the region. The most important relationship for the 21st century will be that between the existing superpower and the potential superpower. Washington should strengthen economic and trade ties with China. Moreover, Washington must forge a cooperative relationship on difficult regional issues like North Korea. The PRC has much at stake on a stable Korean Peninsula; it also has much to gain from taking the lead in promoting diplomatic solutions of regional problems. The president should press for a more active PRC policy to support reinvigorated U.S. engagement with the North. Washington should speak frankly about the importance of human rights, while recognizing America's limited ability to influence the PRC's behavior. An improved bilateral relationship is more likely than isolation to encourage greater respect by Beijing for the liberty of its citizens. The president should treat Japan as a full partner. In economics, that means proposing a free trade agreement. On defense, rather than merely adjusting its controversial Status of Forces Agreement, Washington should withdraw its garrisons from Japanese soil and turn defense responsibility for Japan over to Tokyo. The U.S. also should encourage greater cooperation between Japan and its neighbors. World War II ended more than six decades ago: The Japanese do not have a double dose of original sin and America should no longer play geopolitical wet-nurse for nations that long ago developed the means to protect their own interests. Washington should engage North Korea over its nuclear program. At the same time, the U.S. should inform the North that full international integration requires the participation of South Korea, China, Japan, and Russia as well. The Obama administration should coordinate South Korea, Japanese, and U.S. policies regarding Pyongyang. However, Washington should allow the Republic of Korea to lead the nonproliferation campaign. Seoul has the most at stake in maintaining a peaceful peninsula. As the U.S. steps back from its dominant military role, the ROK and its neighbors should step forward. At the same time, Washington should seek to tighten regional economic integration. The starting point should be a push to ratify the FTA with South Korea. President Obama needs to promote a changed attitude as much as offer new policies. The Japanese government apparently is interested in promoting a regional order, called the East Asian Community, apart from the U.S. Washington should embrace rather than resist such an approach. The U.S. will be most secure if friendly states in East Asia work together to confront sources of instability, promote respect for human rights, and encourage the peaceful settlement of disputes. Such a cooperative venture also would help channel China's rise in peaceful directions. The U.S. will remain engaged in East Asia. America's cultural and economic ties are long-lasting and mutually beneficial. But Washington no longer has any need to attempt to preserve regional military hegemony.

==Glenbrooks== 
Plan: The United States Department of Defense should authorize the closing of Marines Corp Air Station Futenma in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan and the withdrawal of its marine presence stationed on Okinawa in Japan except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.


===1AC – Glenbrooks – Alliance Advantage=== 
**__Contention One is Lovers in Japan__**
**The Futenma controversy makes now the key time to alter our relationship with Japan – How we respond will be the __test case__ for whether or not the alliance will evolve into one of greater equality – Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Van Wolferen ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP</span>
Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been</span> that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington has not treated Japan as</span> a fully <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">independent country</span>. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">But</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is </span>apparently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">not ready</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The matter of moving a</span>n American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Marine base </span>in Okinawa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is</span> apparently <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. </span>Many governments, including Washington, have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’</span>. And now, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">when the new government says that this </span>undesirable <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">imbalance must change, Americans </span>can only <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">whine </span>about military base arrangements <span style="font-size: 5pt;">different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">In </span>the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Futenma </span>base case <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we see a </span>new American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">presidency </span>entirely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">missing the significance of what is happening </span>in Japan. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama and his advisers risk undermining </span>new <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">possibilities for creating a stable </span>new <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cooperative relationship. </span>Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. We learn from this that</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world</span> it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">It also proves that</span> the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. </span>People speak automatically about the United States and Japan as allies. But, again, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we have a conceptual problem </span>here. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">An alliance is a relationship entered into </span>voluntarily <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by</span> two or more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">independent states. </span>When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But</span>, most importantly <span style="font-size: 5pt;">for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words,</span> Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the United States. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And </span>as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington could</span> afford to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">meet Japan</span>ese sensibilities <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with disdain</span>, as it is doing now <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">with respect to the Marines on Okinawa.</span> It is therefore natural that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this </span>dependency <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">relationship going are </span>radically <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">altered.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S. should start refashioning the alliance by closing Futenma. Allows for Japan to maintain regional stability—The Marines are not needed. </span>**</span>
**Bandow, ’10**
[Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow @ The Cato Institute, Former Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12th 2010, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]] AP
Thus the U.S. reliance on Okinawa. Lieutenant General Keith Stalder, the Marine Corps Pacific commander, said the island deployment is "the perfect model" for the alliance's objectives of "deterring, defending and defeating potential adversaries." <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">For years </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the most obvious target of the American forces was North Korea, with </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force</span> (MEF) <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">expected to reinforce the Republic of Korea </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">in the event of war. </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Yet the ROK is</span> both financially and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">manpower rich.</span> More recently some Americans have talked about deploying the MEF to seize Pyongyang's nuclear weapons in the event of a North Korean collapse. Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Checking China is next on the potential Okinawa mission list. However, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">no one expects the U</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">nited </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">S</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">tates </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to launch a ground invasion of</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> the People's Republic of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">China </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">irrespective of the future course of events. Thus, the MEF wouldn't be very useful in any conflict. In any case, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a stronger Japanese military</span> — which already possesses potent capabilities — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">would be a </span>far <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">better mechanism for encouraging responsible Chinese development. There's also the kitchen sink argument</span>: the Marines are to maintain regional "stability." Pentagon officials draw expanding circles around Okinawa to illustrate potential areas of operation. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The mind boggles, however. Should U.S. troops be sent to resolve</span>, say, the long-running Burmese guerrilla war in that nation's east, a flare-up of secessionist sentiment in Indonesia, violent opposition to Fiji's military dictator, or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">border skirmishes</span> between Cambodia and Thailand? <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">It’s hard to imagine any reason for Washington to jump into</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> any </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">local conflict.</span> America's presumption should be noninvolvement rather than intervention in other nations' wars. Making fewer promises to intervene would allow the United States to reduce the number of military personnel and overseas bases. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A good place to start in cutting international installations would be Okinawa.</span> America's post-Cold War dominance is coming to an end. Michael Schuman argued in Time: "Anyone who thinks the balance of power in Asia is not changing — and with it, the strength of the U.S., even among its old allies — hasn't been there lately." Many analysts nevertheless want the United States to attempt to maintain its unnatural dominance. Rather than accommodate a more powerful China, they want America to contain a wealthier and more influential Beijing. Rather than expect its allies to defend themselves and promote regional stability, they want Washington to keep its friends dependent. To coin a phrase, it's time for a change. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">U.S. intransigence over Okinawa has badly roiled the bilateral relationship. But even a more flexible basing policy would not be enough.</span> Washington is risking the lives and wasting the money of the American people to defend other populous and prosperous states. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Washington should close Futenma — as a start to refashioning the alliance with Japan.</span> Rather than a unilateral promise by the United States to defend Japan, the relationship should become one of equals working together on issues of mutual interest. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Responsibility for protecting Japan should become that of Japan.</span>
**The plan allows for regional countries to create mutual engagement – it restructures the relationship with Japan – allowing for a more assertive Japanese foreign policy**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Ikenberry & Kupchan ‘10</span>**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, U.S. officials have reacted with considerable discomfort to the more independent and assertive policies of the new Japanese government. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo in November that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership."</span> And Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg last week welcomed the "expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Obama</span> administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of</span> the government of Prime Minister Yukio <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Hatoyama</span>. While <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is</span> predictable--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--it is sorely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">misguided</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">In questioning </span>the location of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China </span>not entirely mediated by Washington, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the new government </span>is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. On the contrary, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is seeking to update the alliance to the new</span> political and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">strategic environment </span>in the region. Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. Many voters <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo</span>, not Washington. Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. Tokyo's search for a more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China's rise is reshaping the region.</span> It has become Japan's largest export market. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan.</span> Meanwhile, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue</span>, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan is </span>in many respects <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe </span>after the fall of the Berlin Wall. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">With the end of the Cold War, the E</span>uropean <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">U</span>nion both <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">quickened </span>its pace of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">regional integration and yearned for more autonomy</span> from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war in 2003, and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">E</span>urope no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe</span> that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan needs to similarly update its alliance</span> with the United States, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan has the potential to be a regional leader</span> on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries </span>may finally <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II</span>. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance </span>with the U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration.</span> A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. 
**Japan is the key player – a more assertive Japanese foreign policy allows for a multilateral balance of power in Asia– creates regional peace and stability**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Sukma ‘10</span>**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have</span> further <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by </span>the rise of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China and </span>the arrival of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">India </span>as two new major powers, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan has struggled to prove its relevance</span> in the regional strategic equation. It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is </span>very much <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. </span>China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">some sort of multi-polar structure </span>in East Asia <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would ensure </span>that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the region continues to enjoy </span>the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">stability </span>it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. </span>A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community.
**Now is the key time to allow for regional cooperation – Multiple factors make East Asia the one place we cannot sustain unipolar dominance – only increasing regional burden sharing can allow regional powers to maintain stability**
**Tanaka, ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[October 2k10, Hitoshi Tanaka, Senior Fellow, JCIE “Keeping the United States Engaged in Asia” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/EAI/5-4.pdf]]</span>, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The </span>changing balance of power in East Asia from<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Cold War bipolarity to post</span>–<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Cold War </span>unipolarity to a new power configuration tilting toward multipolarity—has prompted debate on the future of US engagement in Asia<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. The </span>wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the global financial crisis have called into question the limitations of US power<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Furthermore, the </span>rise of China has hastened a relative decline in US power in East Asia, allowing China to grow in confidence and accelerating perceptions of China as a great power in the region. This has triggered anxiety among some US allies and friends and requires careful management to preserve the stability of the region<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>China has achieved phenomenal and rapid economic growth since coming out of isolation and engaging with the world economy, and it continues to grow<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. In contrast, </span>the economic situation in the United States and the other advanced industrialized economies has taken a hit from the global financial crisis. The United States is still suffering from weak economic growth rates and unemployment and faces many challenges in its path to recovery<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. In terms of per capita income, China still has a long way to go to achieve the sort of wealth enjoyed by the United States or Japan. The undervalued exchange rate; widening income disparity between developed coastal and underdeveloped rural regions; and agricultural, energy, and environmental problems all pose serious challenges that require serious policy consideration. Nevertheless, </span>China has emerged from the financial crisis in a stronger position while most of the countries of the West find themselves weakened<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>China has started to outline a response to global imbalances, engineering a massive stimulus package to foster the expansion of domestic demand<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>To some extent, the Chinese economy is now beginning to shift from export- led to domestic expansion–led economic growth.<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Further, </span>China has managed to maintain impressive economic growth over the past two years<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Last month, GDP </span>data confirmed what economic analysts have long and widely been predicting, that China has overtaken Japan as the world’s second largest economy<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>As a result of the <span style="font-size: 5pt;">damage</span> the financial crisis<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> has inflicted upon the developed economies and the manner in which China has been able to sustain its economic growth despite the crisis</span>, a growth gap has emerged between China on the one hand and the United States<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, Japan, and most other developed economies on the other. </span>Economic forecasts predict that this growth gap is likely only to widen in the future. Another significant indicator of the relative decline in US power is the relative decline of the importance of the United States as a trading partner for East Asia<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. For instance, </span>the United States had long been Japan’s number one trading partner; however, this title has clearly shifted to China. For other nations<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in East Asia as well, </span>such as South Korea and the members of ASEAN, China has become the largest trading partner. This is not to argue that the United States is not still a highly important trading partner for East Asia<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. However, </span>given the increase in East Asian intraregional trade, the United States has lost ground in relative terms<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Rising anxiety and regional security From a security viewpoint, </span>the United States maintains an overwhelming military force that is second to none in terms of size and capability.<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> However, </span>with its rapid economic growth, China has been able to steadily increase its own military capabilities.<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> The </span>Peoples Liberation Army, once considered a primarily landbased military, has steadily expanded its naval capabilities.<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> More recently, with growing confidence, </span>China has defined the South China Sea as a “core national interest” and has undertaken more visible activities in the South and East China Seas<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. The recent Senkaku Islands incident between Japan and China demonstrates once again China’s rigid manner of conduct, imposing a wide range of swift unilateral measures without attempting adequate communication with Japan. This issue, and Japan-China relations more broadly, requires careful analysis and will be examined in the next issue of East Asia Insights. Meanwhile, </span>the United States has indeed been forced to re-examine its global military strategy amidst doubts that it can continue overstretching its military commitments around the globe<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, simultaneously fighting multiple wars. </span>With tensions rising in the Greater Middle East, especially regarding allegations of nuclear weapons production in Iran, analysts predict that the United States will not be able to commit sufficient capabilities to other areas<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. At the same time, </span>there has been a decline of the United States as a role model<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>The lack of justification for the war in Iraq—based on inaccurate intelligence— and US torture of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib undermine the legitimacy of US claims to moral authority<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>President Obama has emphasized multilateral diplomacy<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, seeking to rebuild US legitimacy damaged by overzealous unilateralism. But, </span>as a result of this shift, we can no longer expect any new determined military interventions on the part of the United States, irrespective of their legitimacy.<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> While many in the international community welcome a less militaristic, less unilateral United States, </span>this change means that US partners must now take on a greater share of the security burden. Without active regional cooperation between the United States and its allies, there is a danger that the limits of regional security will be tested<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. For instance, </span>North Korea may calculate that the US shift away from unilateralism toward multilateral diplomacy will reduce the likelihood of military action, giving it new confidence in negotiations.


===1AC – Glenbrooks – Alliance Advantage – China Scenario=== 
**__Scenario One is Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon__**
**Unipolar management of China will inevitable fail – Only engagement with multilateral institutions in Asia can allow for effective Chinese integration**
**Nye et al., ’07**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, A<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">ssistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, </span></span>CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP</span>
As the United States considers the evolving structure of international relations in Asia in 2020, there are scenarios we should seek to avoid. In particular, with the rising power, influence, nationalism, and resource needs of Asia’s major powers, it is clear that a unipolar U.S. management of Asia is not attainable, and its pursuit could prove counterproductive to adjusting the U.S. role in the region to emerging realities. For some, a condominium between the United States and China seems the logical future structure for the region. However, as long as the United States and China have different value systems, and absent a clear understanding of our respective interests both regionally and globally, it is our view that such an accommodation overestimates the potential of U.S.-China relations. A condominium with China would put at risk the quality of relations with friends and allies across the region who are wary, if accepting, of China’s growing weight and value to the United States, in part as key to achieving strategic balance in the region. At the same time, however, a bipolar structure with only the United States and Japan facing China would be ineffective, because it would force other regional powers to choose between two competing poles. Some might side with the United States and Japan, but most regional powers would choose strict neutrality or align with China. Ultimately, this would weaken the powerful example of American and Japanese democracy and return the region to a Cold War or nineteenth century balance-of-power logic that does not favor stability in the region or contribute to China’s potential for positive change. Stability in East Asia will rest on the quality of U.S.-Japan-China relations, and even though the United States is closely allied with Japan, Washington should encourage good relations among all three. The best structure for Asia rests on sustained U.S. strength, commitment, and leadership in the region, combined with proactive participation in regional affairs by Asia’s other successful powers. An open structure in which Japan, India, Australia, Singapore, and others are leading by example, based on partnerships with the United States and shared democratic values, is the most effective way to realize an agenda for Asia that emphasizes free markets, continued prosperity based on the rule of law, and increasing political freedom. The United States and Japan should also seek to build relationships with countries such as Vietnam, which has a growing interest in being a part of Asia’s trading life, and New Zealand, which shares our values. All these efforts should be coupled with measures to expand areas of cooperation with China, while being candid with Beijing about areas of disagreement. Working within Asia in this manner, we believe, will be key to positively influencing the growth and direction of all of Asia, including China, thereby “getting Asia right.” 
**And, that’s key to maintain a peaceful Chinese rise – the alternative to integration is an imperialist China**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nye et al. ‘07</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">A</span> profound <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">transformation</span> has been unfolding in China, one <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that points to</span> the possibility of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China emerging as the dominant regional power</span>. Even factoring in the possibility of disruption, China will continue to be an engine of regional growth and global dynamism<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. China’s growing comprehensive national power is already well reflected in its assertive diplomacy aimed at shaping the strategic environment around its borders</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">One</span> key <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">question for the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan</span>, and all of Asia is: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">how will China use its new</span>found <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">capabilities and resources</span> as it matures as an economic and military power?<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Since our October 2000 report was issued, perhaps the most significant event in the Pacific has been the explosive economic growth of China. China’s trade-to- GDP ratio has nearly doubled in the past 10 years, making it much more reliant on the external sector—U.S. and Asian markets in particular and raw materials from Australia, North America, and increasingly the Middle East. While China’s economic success presents opportunities for all, there are also emerging costs, such as a drawing away of capital and jobs that would have otherwise gone to its Asian neighbors—those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) especially. China will grow, but its growth will not necessarily be a linear “rise” without complications.</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 10pt;">China has massive internal challenges</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that include an aging society, a weak social safety net, large and growing disparities in development, and systemic corruption—all of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">which have resulted in social unease</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. China’s leaders also are faced with growing labor unrest, a weak banking and financial system, lingering ethnic disputes, environmental problems almost unimaginable to Westerners, and vulnerability to epidemic disease. Together, these challenges have caused Chinese leaders to focus internally, thereby putting a premium on external stability.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China seeks a stable, peaceful international environment</span> in which <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to develop</span> its comprehensive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">national power</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 5pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> China needs to avoid any disruption of its access to national resources (particularly oil and gas) and foreign investment, and it can ill afford major diversions of resources to causes unrelated to the objectives of economic growth and public welfare.</span> That said, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nationalism is growing in China</span>, as elsewhere in the region. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Among China’s leaders, nationalism is likely viewed as a useful tool to muster support for the Communist Party, particularly should economic growth falter</span>. Although reliance on nationalism poses risks for the regime, Chinese leaders will likely continue to tap into nationalist sentiment to bolster their own legitimacy<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. This may place limitations on the quality of interactions the United States and Japan can expect with China for the foreseeable future. Also limiting the quality of interactions are differences in values.</span> The most profound of these relate to differences over human rights, religious freedoms, and political systems. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The values gap</span> matters in the most consequential form because it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">gives rise to a “trust deficit.”</span> In the case of China, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the nexus between values and foreign policy could negatively affect U.S. interests</span>. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">This is manifest in China’s behavior toward countries like Iran, Sudan, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, and Uzbekistan. It is evident that China is engaged in relationship building, which may enable continued irresponsible behavior on the part of other governments. One of the key features of Chinese foreign policy is a requirement to establish secure, reliable access to energy resources that lay beyond China’s borders. Its large and rising energy deficit and lingering distrust of free markets foster a perception among Chinese leaders that increasing reliance on foreign energy creates vulnerabilities. In the hope of securing the energy required to support China’s domestic demand, especially Persian Gulf oil to meet future transportation demands, China has embarked on an effort to promote supply diversification as well as overseas equity investment. The United States, Japan, and others will be further affected by China’s surging demand for energy and raw materials. Some of the consequences will likely be negative: higher prices for foreign crude, increasing environmental degradation, and competition over disputed maritime boundaries. But there will also be new opportunities for cooperation on energy efficiency, “clean-coal technology,” and nuclear power. It may also be the case that China’s increasing reliance on the outside world will present the United States and its friends with foreign policy opportunities. The spectacular economic growth of China has allowed it to make major investments in the military.</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s intensive military modernization</span> efforts <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are focused on</span> preparing for a possible <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">conflict with Taiwan</span>, and its efforts are paying off. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China is developing the ability to fight a high-tech war</span> along its periphery. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China has</span>, for example, d<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">eveloped remarkable coordination among critical military communities</span>—those that do acquisition, training, logistics, doctrine/strategy, etc. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Historically, such coordination has proven to be a formula for militaries to improve their capabilities quickly</span>. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">China has also begun to break down some of the barriers between its services, although it has not yet developed the ability to conduct truly joint military operations</span>. As China continues to expand its military capabilities, it is likely to place greater emphasis on the development of a blue-water navy. This flows in part from the perception that it needs to protect energy sources and sea lanes. The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">modernization and growth</span> of China <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will insure its power and affluence, but the direction it takes remains an open question</span>. In 2020, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China could be</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">responsible</span> stakeholder, with increased political freedoms and liberal institutions that support economic openness and make for more responsible treatment of its people and its neighbors. On the other hand, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s conduct could be marked by mercantilism</span>, with illiberal institutions, chauvinistic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nationalism</span>, and corruption <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that</span> distort international norms and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">threaten neighbors</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China will continue to face discrete decision points in the global arena</span>. In such instances, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it is important that China has incentives to make those choices that lead it down a path of peaceful integration and benign competition</span>. 
**And, an aggressive nationalist Chinese rise causes war over Taiwan**
**<span class="cite">Copley News Service, ’05 </span>**
[Copley News Service, “Daily Editorials: Bombs and Butter,” July 24th 2005] 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">As China gains</span> economic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">clout, its government's brand of</span> touchy, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">saber-rattling nationalism becomes more worrisome.</span> That touchiness is rooted in the memory of humiliation inflicted by foreigners, from the Western colonial concessions of the 19th century, and it is rooted in the more recent memory of Japanese atrocities during the World War II occupation. That wounded pride explains the orchestrated national spleen-venting over Japanese textbooks, the 2001 U.S. spy plane collision and the mistaken U.S. bombing of China's embassy during the Kosovo campaign. It has much to do with China's oft-repeated threats to attack Taiwan, which seem extreme to everyone except the Chinese. As China gains power, that nationalism becomes more worrisome. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">China's authoritarian government lacks the </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">natural </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">restraint of </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">voters or</span> of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">dissenters </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">free </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to challenge </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">government </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">assumptions that can lead to war.</span> The Pentagon recently reported that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">China is</span> rapidly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">building its military </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">with a goal of extending its influence across Asia.</span> In the future, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">its </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">leaders "may be tempted to resort to force </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">or</span> coercion more quickly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to press diplomatic advantage,</span> advance security interests or resolve disputes," the report concluded. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">If </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">more </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">muscle combined with nationalist passions tempt Chinese leaders to attack Taiwan, the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">S</span>tates and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the world would be faced with a crisis</span> more serious than any since at least the 1962 Cuban missile crisis with the Soviet Union. __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The U</span>__nited __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__tates __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10pt;">would feel compelled to come to Taiwan's aid</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">resulting in a war between heavily armed countries that possess nuclear arsenals.</span>

**Creating a more equal alliance through the plan is uniquely key – maintaining an unequal alliance through our marine presence signals a strategy of unipolar dominance – creating a containment posture that signals that we are preparing for a land war**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray; font-size: 12pt;">Mochizuki ‘96</span></span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96 “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]</span>
However, just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China,</span> put down by the West for two centuries, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is cognizant of its growing strength</span> and intends to be recognized for it. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">It</span> also <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has territorial disputes</span> with many neighbors besides Taiwan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and a perception that the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">wants to box it in</span> militarily and politically. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Similar conditions</span> -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">produce World War I</span>. Under these circumstances, the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers. Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance. Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review. But there are risks to sticking with the status quo. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed</span> so starkly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">on Okinawa</span> last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">has been developing</span> ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen. Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their country, essentially still at Cold War levels, should be reduced. True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too. At this point, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by</span> changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a reduction in</span> the number of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Marine combat units on Okinawa</span>, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance. The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for. The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea. But all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. As for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States. Other potential disputes with China should not be addressed militarily. We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the United States has no</span> long-term <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">interest in fighting land wars in Asia</span>. By <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">committing ourselves to</span> what would be primarily <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a maritime</span> defense <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">strategy</span>, we <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would deter China</span> from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation. If China some day caused military trouble in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments. But these are matters where <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">hyper-vigilance now is unneeded, and</span> is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">only</span> likely to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">make things worse</span>. Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.) Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy, it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action. In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. In the longer term, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner</span> to the United States. Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war. In these tense times in Asian politics, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China</span> -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders, but that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region. And, by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer. Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we should get our </span>post-Cold War Asian <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis</span>. 
**That guarantees conflict – containment strategies forcing an aggressive China cause mutual miscalculation and tension escalation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Hadar ‘96</span>**
[Leon, Adjunct Scholar of the Cato Institute, Jan 26th, “The Sweet-and-Sour Sino-Americana Relationship”, Cato Policy Analysis No. 428 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-248.html]]</span>]
The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">containment</span> hawks and geoeconomic and geocultural nationalists <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">in Washington</span> and the military hawks and cultural chauvinists in Beijing are a classic case of "rival twins." They <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">accelerate the confrontation between the two nations</span>, as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">each group feeds into</span> the other's <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">misconceptions</span>. The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chinese follow the debate and policies emanating from Washington and see them as part of a campaign to slow their country's rise to power</span>; the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Americans monitor the rhetoric and actions of Beijing and assume that the Chinese leadership is hostile</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">That creates a trail of misperceptions and a vicious circle of policies and counterpolicies that could threaten</span> at some point <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to get out of hand and produce a major international crisis</span>. Systemic Factors While misperceptions on both sides of the Pacific can be exacerbated by the way presidential leadership, bureaucratic factors, or domestic politics affects U.S. policy toward China, there is another, possibly more profound and systemic, dimension to the current Sino-American tensions. The end of the Cold War, like any other revolutionary change in the international system, tends to produce new confrontations between various powers that want to dominate or at least influence the new global structure<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In many cases, </span>the international competition ushered in by a new era is between rising and hegemonic powers. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">A rising</span> "have-not" <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">power usually strives to change the status quo</span>, including the rules of the international military and economic game, in a way that will benefit its interests and help it to translate its new economic power into military and diplomatic influence. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The hegemonic</span> "have" <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">power wants to preserve the</span> global <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">status quo</span>, thereby maintaining its dominant economic and military position<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Sometimes, </span>as in the case of Great Britain and Germany during the early 20th century, the rivalry erupts into a major hegemonic war<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Sometimes, </span>as in the rivalry between the United States and Great Britain in the late 1800s and early 1900s<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>the tension ends in a gradual and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">peaceful transition of dominant status</span> from the old to the new power. In still other instances, as in the case of the United States, Germany, and Japan in the post-World War II era, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">evolves into a peaceful</span>, albeit complex, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">sharing of</span> economic and military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">influence</span>.(<span style="font-size: 7pt;">63) </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chinese leaders</span> and people <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">believe that</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> with the geostrategic and geoeconomic changes taking place in the world, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">their nation should</span> and could <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">gain its rightful place in the ranks of global great powers</span>. The consensus that unites "moderates" and "radicals," or conservatives and reformists, in Beijing is that, in the aftermath of the Cold War, "the world has moved from a bipolar system to a multi-polar system," according to a Western diplomat in the Chinese capital. "China intends to be a pole or significant actor" in that system. That means "defining its own sphere--and even using confrontation with the U.S. to send a signal to other countries that dealing with Taipei, for example, is courting trouble."(64) The rhetoric of top Clinton administration officials suggests that while the United States is expecting occasional problems with Beijing, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Washington is</span> nevertheless <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">willing to peacefully accommodate the rising power of China</span>. "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Our policy is engagement, not containment</span>," insists Lord. He adds, however, "We're not naive. We cannot predict what kind of power China will be in the 21st century. God forbid we may have to turn, with others, to a policy of containment. I would hope not. We're trying to prevent that."(65) But history suggests that things rarely remain as simple as Lord's formulation. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Maintaining a stable balance of power</span> between an old hegemon and a new competitor <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is at best difficult</span>, especially if the two powers and the system in which they operate are undergoing dramatic changes<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Post-Deng China: Post-Bismarck Germany or Post-1945 Russia? Some analysts, including Nicholas D. Kristof, former Beijing chief of the New York Times, have drawn a historical parallel between the rise of Germany as a world economic and military power at the end of the 19th century and China's rise in the last decade of the 20th century. They suggest that, given the similar authoritarian and insecure nature of the regimes in post-Bismarck Germany the post-Deng China, China could emerge as a leading anti-status quo player, challenging the dominant position of the United States, which like Great Britain in the 19th century occupies the leading economic and military position in the world. "The risk is that Deng's successor will be less talented and more aggressive--a Chinese version of Wilhelm II," writes Kristof. "Such a ruler unfortunately may be tempted to promote Chinese nationalism as a unifying force and ideology, to replace the carcass of communism." For all the differences between China and Wilhelmine Germany, "the latter's experience should remind us of the difficulty that the world has had accommodating newly powerful nations," warns Kristof, recalling that Germany's jockeying for a place in the front rank of nations resulted in World War I.(66) Charles Krauthammer echoes that point, contending that China is "like late 19th-century Germany, a country growing too big and too strong for the continent it finds itself on."(67) Since Krauthammer and other analysts use the term <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">"containment"</span> to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">describe the policy they urge Washington to adopt toward China</span>, it is the Cold War with the Soviet Union that is apparently seen as the model for the future Sino- American relationship. Strategist Graham Fuller predicts, for example, that China is "predisposed to a role as leader of the dispossessed states" in a new cold war that would pit an American-led West against an anti-status quo Third World bloc.(68) Although Krauthammer admits that China lacks the ideological appeal that the Soviet Union possessed (at least in the early stages of the Cold War), he assumes that, like the confrontation with the Soviet Union but unlike the British-German rivalry, the contest between America and China will remain "cold" and not escalate into a "hot" war. That optimism is crucial. Advocates of containment may be able to persuade a large number of Americans to adopt an anti-China strategy if the model is the tense but manageable Soviet-American rivalry<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. However, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">not many</span> Americans <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are likely to embrace containment if the probable outcome is a bloody rerun of World War I</span>--<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">only this time possibly with nuclear weapons</span>.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Cold War as a Dangerously Misleading Model </span>Trying to use <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the paradigm of the Soviet-American rivalry</span> to draw historical lessons and policy conclusions <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">for dealing with China</span>, however, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is insidiously misleading</span>. Even if one assumes that the Soviet Union did stand formally for the radical revision of the international status quo after the Bolshevik revolution, its conduct in the post-1945 era was less disruptive. It acted more as a "challenger," a global player committed to maintaining many features of the status quo while chafing at an American-dominated system. Moscow did challenge U.S. interests<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, but for the most part, </span>it did so at the margins<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Moreover, by the late 1970s the </span>Soviet Union had become a "declining challenger" whose economic weakness, resulting from disastrous domestic policies and the failure to integrate into the world system, led eventually to its demise<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.(69) Current </span>U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">policymakers need to ask themselves whether China is</span> an anti-status quo power, or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">even a "challenger"</span> trying to harm core U.S. national interests, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">or a</span> competitive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">player attempting to join the multipolar system and the global economy</span>--more like post- Gorbachev Russia and less like the post-1917 or even post- 1945 Soviet Union. If China is a competitive player, a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">containment policy would be not only inappropriate but foolishly provocative</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Indeed, </span>if U.S. policymakers attempt to keep China from joining the ranks of the great powers, there is a high probability that Beijing will not become a "challenger" playing according to a set of international rules<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as the Soviet Union did during the Cold War. Instead, </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China may turn into an anti-status quo power similar to Germany</span> in the pre-World War I era or, perhaps even more applicable, Japan on the eve of Pearl Harbor. "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If you treat China as an enemy, China will become an enemy</span>," warned Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Nye in July 1995.(70) Moreover, whereas the Germany of Kaiser Wilhelm II had strong lines of communication with Britain based on close political, economic, cultural, and even royal ties, China for most Americans, including many foreign policy experts, still remains an enigma, and the American political culture and policymaking process is misunderstood in Beijing. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The potential for misconceptions and misperceptions in Sino-American relations, lead</span>ing eventually <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to dangerous diplomatic and military crises that could be mismanaged</span>, is significantly greater than that which existed in the pre-1914 German- British rivalry or even in the Soviet-American Cold War. The Last Pacific War--And the Next One? The historical analogy that may be most relevant to the long-term problems that American leaders face in dealing with China is the deterioration in Japanese-American relations in the 1930s. As journalist Jonathan Marshall says in a new study on the origins of the Pacific War, the conflict resulted in large part from the demand by the "have-not" power, Japan, to be recognized as the leading economic and military power in the Pacific and resistance by the principal status quo power, the United States (and its ally, Great Britain) to that demand. It was Japan's refusal to permit the United States and Britain to continue exercising total control over the mineral resources (including such industrial materials as rubber and tin) of Southeast Asia that was seen in Washington and London as a threat to the existing balance of power and was the main factor in the U.S. decision (which was made before Pearl Harbor) to go to war against Japan if Japanese expansionism continued. "The war was about much more than resources, of course," admits Marshall. The fact that the "have" nations represented a generally liberal order and Japan presented a militarist or totalitarian challenge gave the conflict "a deeply ideological cast." And such factors as cultural misconceptions and the personality traits of leaders also influenced the events leading to Pearl Harbor. But along with the contest of political philosophies and policy miscalculations was "a baser clash of power and interests, a struggle for economic hegemony over vast stretches of the world."(71) The violent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">struggle between "have" and "have-not" powers</span>, between the United States and Japan and between Great Britain and Germany, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">was not inevitable</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">The way countries define their national interests affects the foreign policy process more than anything else</span>. What is seen in retrospect as a tragedy, attributed to misunderstandings on all sides, a "March of Folly" to use Barbara Tuchman's term, was really the product of decisions and judgments motivated by self-interest and made by politicians, officials, lawmakers, experts, and journalists. The general public in Britain and the United States never fully comprehended that "national interest," as it was defined by the makers of foreign policy in Washington in the 1930s and in London in the first years of the 20th century, was based on the need to resist demands for changes in the international system--if need be by military force. Today, in the era of CNN-based public diplomacy, the American people have a better opportunity to determine the way the post-Cold War national interest in general and with regard to China in particular is defined. Like Americans who fought in World War II or the British who suffered the horrible consequences of the Great War, they will have to pay the high costs of policies for containing China, which are now being sketched in Washington. Conclusion: Living in Interesting, but Not Costly, Times China's emergence as a world power and its complex relationship with the United States are seen now by most Americans as quite relevant to the U.S. national interest. According to one recent study measuring public interest in international issues, in the last four years the number of people who believe that China is important to the vital interests of the United States has increased more than the number who believe any other country is important. Both opinion leaders and the general public believe that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China's influence will grow dramatically over the next 10 years</span>. More than half of the public and slightly less than half of the leaders believe that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the emergence of China as a world power might be a "critical" threat to vital U.S. interests in the next decade</span>. Heightened concern about China is further reflected by the fact that two-thirds of the public and more than four-fifths of the leaders believe that the United States should be spying on the Chinese government.(72) Unfortunately, despite heightened public interest in China, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the fact that the two military and economic giants of the Pacific have been drifting apart has not received the attention it deserves in Washington</span>, where the foreign policy debate has continued to be dominated by the civil war in Bosnia. Contributing to the lack of any comprehensive discussion of the Sino-American relationship has been the haphazard and crisis-oriented media coverage of the China story and the preoccupation with Beijing's human rights conduct. Consequently, most Americans are probably not aware of the potentially very high stakes involved in the Sino-American relationship. Indeed, the prospect the United States might find itself drawn into a costly diplomatic and military conflict with China over the future of several tiny islands in the South China Sea or an escalation in tensions between Taipei and Beijing has not been considered by most Americans--who in all probability are not sure of the spelling of Spratly and are certainly not familiar with the distinctions between "Chinese" and "Taiwanese" nationalism. Yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China and the United States could drift toward a costly armed conflict if the containment strategy</span> advocated by many first-term Republican members of Conress <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">is adopted</span>. Those Republicans propose a policy that is out of line with the aspirations of the American people and raises questions about the Republicans' commitment to the "populist" agenda they propagate. Indeed, a recent poll indicates that 71 percent of Americans do not think that the United States should defend Taiwan if China launches a military invasion.(73) 
**War involving China and the US is uniquely likely – its uniquely likely to go global nuclear**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Dodge ‘05</span>**
[Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]
In the summer of 2005, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chinese</span> Major-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">General</span> Zhu <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Chenghu threatened the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates with nuclear attack, stating that, “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If the Americans draw their missiles</span> and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we will</span> have to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">respond with nuclear weapons</span>.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the PRC</span> realizes that it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">must be able to deter U.S. military intervention</span>. The idea is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">to convince the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates and the world <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">that China is both capable and</span>, more importantly, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">willing to inflict grievous casualties</span> on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Efforts</span> toward this end <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">have been manifested</span> over recent years <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">in</span> the form of greatly increased <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">military spending</span>, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear weapons, and</span> the formation of a<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;"> naval</span> warfighting strategy that emphasizes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">asymmetric attacks</span> on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons</span> should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation</span>. Put simply, this piece argues that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s</span> warfighting <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">doctrine is</span> misguided, unrealistic, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">dangerous</span>. It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">it makes nuc</span>l<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">ear war with the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates far more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">likely</span>. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s acquisition of advanced</span> foreign <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">weaponry</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">its expectation that the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">S</span>tates <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will back down</span> at the first hint of casualties, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and its</span> belief that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">nuclear weapons</span> can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China may act on</span> its <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">irredentist policies</span> when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition</span>. Finally, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">the loss</span> of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">will </span>cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">leav</span>ing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">only nuclear options</span>. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces</span> in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">inadvertent escalation</span>. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">are greatly germane to</span> any future <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Sino-U.S. conflict.</span> It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. 
**Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation – countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Straits Times 2K</span>**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Conflict </span>on such a scale <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">would embroil other countries</span> far and near <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">and</span> -- horror of horrors -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">raise the possibility of a nuclear war. </span>Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire.</span> And the conflagration may not end there as <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">opportunistic powers </span>elsewhere <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">may </span>try to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">overturn the </span>existing <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">world order.</span> With the US distracted, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Russia may seek to redefine Europe's</span> political <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">landscape. </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">balance of power in the Middle East may be </span>similarly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">upset</span> by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">hostilities between India and Pakistan,</span> each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">could enter a</span> new and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">dangerous phase.</span> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">China possesses</span> about 20 nuclear <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">warheads that can destroy major </span>American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cities.</span> Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">Zhangqiang,</span> president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">said </span>military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory </span>if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span> There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span> might seem inconceivable, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">cannot be ruled out</span> entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. 

===1AC – Glenbrooks – Alliance Advantage – East Asia Scenario=== 
**__Scenario Two is Too Kool for Kagan__**
**Multiple factors place East Asia on the brink of conflict – only a transition to regional cooperation can solve**
**Feng, ’10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Zhu Feng, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, Has served as Research Fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, Visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]</span>]</span>
If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending in the region is at least a timely wake-up call as to the vulnerability of East Asia security. Many Asian observers agree that East Asia is in transition. But the key questions concern the sources, the pace, and direction of the transition. There is growing speculation that post-cold war U.S. regional hegemony is eroding, due primarily to Washington’s significant international commitments in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and Pakistan as well as the impact of the global financial crisis and the rapid rise of China. At the same time, new challenges, such as a nuclear North Korea, a changing Japan, difficult-to-solve territorial disputes across the region, contentious history issues, and, perhaps most importantly, the “security dilemma” arising from a power shift in the region have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors. What is the regional security perspective, and what will be the emerging trends? The answer varies tremendously according to the respective preferences, strategic goal-setting, and interest calculations of the regional member states. As John Ikenberry and Michael Mastanduno argue, “the Asia-Pacific is a mosaic of divergent cultures and political regime types, historical estrangements, shifting power balances, and rapid economic change.” But how will this “mosaic” evolve and what will be the sustainable outlook of great-power relations in East Asia? David Shambaugh optimistically assumes that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will not likely lead to a dramatic strategic shift in the East Asian order. Similarly, as Robert S. Ross and Zhu Feng emphasize, structural and long-term international factors, as well as short-term U.S. and Chinese policy trends, allow for tempered optimism that a power transition, albeit competitive and costly, can remain peaceful. But can such optimism be sustained in the foreseeable future? A focus on aggregate defense spending cannot mask the effects of increasingly volatile regional security flash points, such as a nuclear North Korea, or regional power shifts involving China, India, and Japan. Any serious exploration of regional security dynamics, however, must recognize that there are no important hidden shifts in national strategies. So far, power shifts in East Asia have not substantially destabilized the military balance. Nor has the global financial crisis opened up a “window of opportunity” for any power in the region to engage in military adventurism. The ongoing financial crisis has highlighted the fragility, lack of legitimacy, and overall imbalances in global economic governance. At the same time, new and powerful members of the global system have yet to take their place at the table of a wide range of international forums managing regional and multilateral relationships in the domain of old and “new” security issues. This includes the rise of new giants such as India, China, and Brazil, new forms of governance at the regional level of which the European Union is a model, and many emerging states of medium size whose place at the global table remains uncertain. The continued exclusion of the poorest countries in the world and the ongoing problem of failed states, coupled with debilitating ethnic conflicts, continue to loom large. The diversity of regional perspectives should not weaken regional security efforts, which by nature are shared, interconnected, and indispensable. The future of regional security need not be gloomy, as long as we can figure out how to properly handle security challenges in a way that reenergizes regional financial and economic integration in the wake of the global financial crisis. (China, for instance, is agonizing over the repeated demand for greater transparency and vigilant oversight from its neighbors). Meanwhile, there is little evidence that Beijing’s increased military budget encourages instability in the region. Nevertheless, the avoidance of diplomatic clashes and the management of contending security concerns should be a concern for every country in the region. 
**And, no external factors check – decline in US influence makes multilateral structures uniquely key**
**Vogel, ’10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ezra Vogel, Henry Ford II Emeritus Professor of Social Sciences @ Harvard University, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/|Regionalism in Asia: Why we should stick with existing structures]]</span>,” March 30th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/]]</span>]</span>
An important key to successful regional organisation is making good use of what some of the individual countries have to contribute. The strong points of some of the leading countries that can promote the region are thus detailed below. Japan has been the pioneer in bringing modernisation to Asia. Despite its relatively small size, Japan remains one of the three largest economies in the world, with one of the best-educated and healthiest populations. Its technology and quality of production set global standards, and its law-abiding citizenry facilitate one of the lowest crime rates in the world. As the only major country in the world that has chosen not to have nuclear weapons, Japan has the moral authority to take a leading position in the fight <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/02/rethinking-the-bom/|against nuclear proliferation]]</span>. Finally, as the global leader in energy technology and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/12/16/climate-change-and-japan%E2%80%99s-post-copenhagen-challenge/|environmental protection]]</span>, it can make a major contribution in these areas. China, driven by explosive economic growth and a massive population, has begun to play a central role in energising the region’s economy. Its think tanks and universities have developed extraordinarily quickly, and China is now producing large numbers of young people with a deep understanding of major issues affecting the Asia-Pacific region. Whilst China was initially concerned about the speed of modernisation within Asia, it has come to realise the benefits inherent in regionalism, and has begun to take a role in strengthening regional and global organisations. As China’s economy has grown, its leaders have also turned their focus onto international efforts to solve environmental problems such as <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/17/what-china-really-delivered-at-copenhagen/|global warming]]</span>. The United States remains the leader in higher education and research, and acts as a centre for educating talented people from around the globe. Additionally, international institutions sometimes lack the capacity to respond to urgent crises. In this context, the United States remains the country with the greatest capacity to resolve security and environmental emergencies. The United States recognises the importance of the Asia-Pacific and can be expected to take an active role in the region. The Southeast Asian countries that formed ASEAN have set the model for the ‘soft regionalism’ that is the glue binding together nations on both sides of the Pacific in a cooperative framework, most notably via APEC. It has unique convening power for bringing together the big powers of the region in a neutral setting. As the largest country in South-East Asia, Indonesia inevitably plays a central role in ASEAN. South Korea and Australia both also have unique contributions to make. South Korea, along with Singapore, is the most cosmopolitan country in East Asia, and continues to send many students to countries throughout the world. Australia has played a special role, not only as the region’s key supplier of many raw materials, but also as the one sizeable Caucasian country that is in effect in Asia. No country outside South Korea has trained a higher percentage of its population in Japanese language and culture. No country outside Indonesia has done more to study Indonesia. Accordingly, Australia continues to play a <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/01/20/asias-new-strategic-partnerships/|key role]]</span> in maintaining security within the Asia-Pacific. The regional organisations in existence are already flexible enough to make good use of the capacities of the respective countries. But India and Russia should also be absorbed in these organisations. Together, these countries, through the regional associations, can address some of the critical issues facing the region. I will just briefly mention two of the most difficult of these issues that require our attention: historical disputes, and military balance of power issues. At the moment, issues as to Japanese interpretations of history are <span class="underline"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/01/05/a-new-start-for-japan-china-relations/|relatively submerged]]</span></span>, as South Korea and China are making an effort to set aside this issue. This does not mean that the issue has been resolved. On the Japanese side, efforts must be made to engage in a thorough study of the tragedies caused by the occupation of Taiwan and Korea, and of the invasion of mainland China in World War II. Korea and China must also make an effort to communicate to their populations the fundamental changes that have occurred after World War II, as Japan has sought to maintain peace and avoid militarism. The security balance in Asia is the single biggest issue confronting regionalism in the Asia-Pacific. In the past several decades, stability in Asia has rested upon two pillars; the overwhelming military power of the United States and the cooperation of other countries, most prominently South Korea and Japan. Now, the Chinese military is <span class="underline"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/|growing]]</span></span> in strength, and it is no secret that the US has an imbalanced budget that will constrain military expenses in decades ahead. If we are to maintain peace and stability in the Asia Pacific, we must have a solid understanding between the United States and China. It is in the interests of all countries in the region to deal with these issues, and regional organisations can make an important contribution. Thus whilst we do not need another regional organisation for East Asia, it is vital that all concerned nations continue to cooperate using the existing organisations. 
**And Regional Cooperation is necessary to prevent East Asian Nuclear War**
**Swanstrom, ’05**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Niklas, Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Dr. Swanström's specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isdp.eu/images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf]]</span>] AP</span>
After the end of the Cold War, states, regional and international organizations have also adopted a more diversified view on security that also encompasses humanitarian, environmental and economic issues. This move away from the traditional concepts of security is positive, especially since the nature of conflict also has changed. According to estimates made by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), deaths related to interstate conflicts dropped by two thirds – from 660,000 in the 1980s to 220,000 in the 1990s. This can be contrasted to the 3.6 million people who were killed as a result of internal conflicts in the 1990s. 5 Moreover, this is not taking into consideration the societal and humanitarian disasters, like poverty, diseases and environmental degradation, that follow, especially, intrastate conflicts. The combination of old and new security threats has increased the need and potential for conflict prevention, and it has become necessary to expand the focus to include, among other things, the prevention of social, environmental and economic degradation. Today, it is therefore vital to deal with more complex conflict patters and move away from the single-minded focus on military threats. Military threats are no longer the sole security threats and the focus has moved beyond the interstate level to encompass individuals, sub-national and regional entities. 6 This has led to a realization that the costs of inaction, or late action, can be tremendous since military conflicts, in combination with the new security threats, tend to be more devastating both in terms of human suffering and economic losses. 7 In addition, in contemporary military conflicts, there is always at least a potential risk that nuclear weapons will be used, something which could end in total destruction as several states in the region are armed with nuclear weapons. Academics, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and policy institutions have both noted the increased risk that this combination of security threats implies, as well as its increased destructiveness. Thus, the central issue is no longer whether conflict prevention is needed or if it can work, but rather under what conditions it can be effective and how it should be implemented. 8 There has also been a positive change in the political arena towards using conflict prevention measures instead of emergency actions – at least on paper. 9 Indeed, the operational effects do not always mirror the content of the well-intended agreements or the beautiful language of the documents. The failure to implement conflict preventive measures is endemic, but far worse among certain states and organizations than others. Far too little is also being done by states and regional organizations to increase the implementation of conflict prevention measures. 10 The failure, or unwillingness, of states to implement conflict prevention measures is somehow illogical since everyday society is filled with conflict prevention measures, such as the social security system, insurances, traffic rules, legal norms or simple rules such as washing your hands before dinner to prevent you from becoming sick. All these rules are simple prevention measures that nobody would think twice about, but preventive measures that could save millions of lives and billions of dollars are often contested or neglected by politicians and policy-makers. There are at least two reasons for this. On the one hand, many decisionmakers do not believe in the possibility of conflict prevention. On the other hand, following the prevailing Cold War mentality, prevention is not considered realistic and military options seem many times as the logical solution. The reluctance towards conflict prevention can also be the result of a fear among states that conflict prevention implies an intervention in internal affairs. However, regional organizations seem to have had greater success than international organizations in implementing conflict prevention measures. This is because trust and integration normally is deeper in a regional setting, which in turn eliminates some of the fear of intervention in internal affairs. In addition, conflicts, even domestic ones, often have regional effects and reasons. Moreover, regional organizations are becoming increasingly important as the UN has delegated the responsibility of conflict prevention and resolution to regional organizations. As a result, states need to interact in a regional setting in order to be effective in developing prevention strategies. Very few conflicts can be prevented with solely national methods as globalization has made the world smaller. Today, national borders are neither a good defining line, nor are they capable of containing conflicts. Scholars and practitioners have devoted great efforts, both in theory and practice, in regards to regional cooperation and its effects on conflict related issues in politics and trade. 11 States are also becoming increasingly involved in regional organizations to prevent such conflicts. Conflicts, both internal and international, in many cases have regional implications, dimensions and connections that necessitate a multilateral approach to conflict prevention. Michael Lund has pointed out that preventive diplomacy in its nature is multilateral, and that organizations such as the Organization of Security of Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the EU, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), later African Union (AU) and the Organization of American States (OAS) - all working in a multilateral context - have been very active in conflict prevention. 12 There also seems to be a consolidation and expansion of regional structures such as the EU, APEC, ASEAN, ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) and NAFTA. As a result, new roles are being carved out for international and regional organizations. 13 This is in line with the United Nations' policy to increase the importance of regional organizations. 14 The effectiveness and impact of regional organizations on regional structures is, however, still relatively unclear. This said, it is important to realize that regional organizations do not operate in a vacuum. In fact, their success in preventing conflicts is directly dependent on cooperation between nations (their member states) and international entities such as the WTO, the UN and NATO. 15 There is no doubt that conflict prevention, both as a theoretical concept and an instrumental tool, is increasingly important as it enhances the possibilities for peaceful development at a low cost for the international community and individual states. Early intervention in conflicts, even before they have erupted, makes prevention easier and militarized disputes or open conflicts can be avoided. At the early stages of conflict, the disputed issues are less politicized and therefore fewer resources, both political and economic, need to be invested. Moreover, militarized conflicts imply a greater cost than structural or direct prevention. It has been suggested that regional organizations could function more effectively as conductors of conflict prevention than other units within the international system (international or state level), but more research is needed on this issue before any conclusions can be drawn. The linkage between regional cooperation and conflict prevention has received less attention than crisis management and security at large, especially regarding the relation to international actors or states. 16 There is a great amount of literature on conflict management and negotiation in transnational settings and cultures, 17 but far less on conflict prevention. 18 The theoretical discussion on the correlation between regional cooperation and conflict prevention has been limited in earlier studies and offers little guidance. Ernst Haas, Robert Butterworth and Joseph Nye, who conducted one of the first studies directly focusing on regional cooperation and conflict management (but not prevention), came to the conclusion that international organizations can influence the conflict management processes. 19 The drawbacks, which they acknowledge, were that they were unable to base their study on an existing theory, but also to produce a new theory at the time of writing. 20 However, studies on cooperation and conflict management have since been conducted and their results have lead researchers and policy makers to assume that a positive correlation exists between conflict prevention and regional cooperation. Yet the theoretical basis, on which such assumptions are founded, does not acknowledge the differences between conflict prevention and conflict management. 21 Thus, the assumed positive correlation lacks theoretical differentiation and reflects the researchers’ conceptual simplification. There are also considerable risks in basing assumptions on too inclusive definitions. To assume a positive correlation is insufficient, since the initiation of regional cooperation is costly and can have potentially destabilizing effects if it fails. Further research is needed, first in regards to the definition of these concepts and second on the relationship between prevention and regional organizations. Cooperation between regional entities differs from national and international, as do regional, preventive strategies. The difference between intra-national, regional and international cooperation (and integration) is not only the number of states involved but also, and more important, the dynamics behind the cooperation. 22 Intra-national cooperation is defined as cooperation between political and economic entities within a single state as it is defined by its membership in the United Nations. International cooperation constitutes cooperative relations between states that are all-inclusive, i.e. open membership for states, such as the United Nations (UN), the World Bank (WB) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) without regional focus. Regional cooperation focuses on cooperation between regional actors with a regional aim. Regional cooperation is, furthermore, exclusive in its membership (non-regional actors are not members). 23 The distinctions and difference in power between regional, international and national units are important to understand in order to make a correct analysis of the prospects of prevention in regional organizations. Sovereignty and the unique enforcement power of national entities are one of the more important aspects that differentiate them from international and regional entities. The aspect of sovereignty has traditionally made each individual state legally “immune” from external intervention and external involvement in the domestic decision-making process. 24 Conflict prevention in regional and international organizations makes the state, per definition, open for external intervention in accordance with the treaty that establishes the mechanism. Despite attempts to protect their sovereignty, a sovereign state will have to give up certain aspects of its sovereignty when it enters into regional or international cooperation. 25 This includes the exclusive power of enforcement and the right to rule in disputes. 26 This transfer of authority strengthens the regional or international entity's ability to act. At the same time, it weakens the national entity's ability to act independently. The actual degree of sovereignty that states surrender is, however, mostly relatively low and at best there is enough to empower the international or regional organization. 27 The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the African Union (AU) are examples of organizations with little independent power over the individual member states and they are thus dependent on the more powerful members. On the other hand, the EU has limited the sovereignty of all its members to empower the organization, which coordinate and act for its members as a unit. 28 How the transfer of sovereignty has impacted conflict prevention varies between the different regional organizations, but generally a higher degree of transferred sovereignty means more effective preventive mechanisms. However, the definition of what prevention is varies between regions and states and it is at times unclear what structures are strengthened or weakened. It is clear that in the post-Cold War era, preventive measures have been given a new meaning and now emphasize peaceful prevention of disputes at an early state. During the Cold War, preventive action was altogether synonymous with pre-emptive strikes and crisis management. 29 Anders Bjurner has pointed out that conflict prevention is a fairly new subculture of security and foreign policy studies. 30 This explains why there is a shortage of studies in the field and why there traditionally has been a focus on military and political security. Regional cooperation is a further addition to this equation and integrated studies on the subject are even fewer. Conflict prevention can be a very wide or a very narrow term for mechanisms created to deal with the prevention of violent conflicts. Tracktwo diplomacy, high-level official meetings, disarmament, economic development and cooperation, democratization, etc. are all different aspects of conflict prevention and its definition depends on the authors' individual purpose. 31 However, the focus of all these aspects of conflict prevention is the prevention of violent conflicts. The focus on violence is important since conflicts per se are not negative. The easiest way to separate prevention from other forms of intervention is to focus on the time factor. Crisis management and dispute resolution are both tactics that are initiated after the conflict has erupted. Conflict prevention is by definition applied before the outbreak of conflict or in a post-conflict phase to prevent a conflict from reoccurring. In this chapter, conflict prevention will be analyzed as concerted actions designed by organizations to deter, resolve or halt disputes before they erupt. 32 In order to clarify strategies and implementation, prevention should be divided into two sub-definitions; direct and structural prevention. Direct conflict prevention includes measures that are aimed at the short-term prevention of conflicts, while structural conflict prevention includes measures aimed at long-term conflict prevention. 33 Economic development is, for example, a structural prevention mechanism that has been relatively successful in the EU and the Americas. The distinction between structural and direct prevention is important, especially in the policy field as it translates into different strategies. It is too often argued that long-term and short-term measures are the same. Lund, for example, argues that all preventive diplomacy is short-term measures because he does not take into account the possibility of long-term preventive diplomacy tactics. 34 At the operational level of conflict prevention, Lund argues that preventive measures are especially effective at, what he labels, the "level of unstable peace", which is a "situation where tension and suspicion among parties run high but violence is either absent or only sporadic". 35 I argue that this is not necessarily the case since some preventive measures are best operationalized at an earlier stage, preferable during the level of stable peace where there is a minimum of suspicion between the potential adversaries. The reason for this is simply that the acceptance of preventive measures is higher when suspicion does not disturb the situation. By building institutions, trust and cooperation at an early stage there is little, if no, reason for a stage of unstable peace. It is at this stage that the creation of regional organizations and economic cooperation per se could have positive structural effects on the prevention of conflicts. However, it is clear that many states and regional organizations see little or no point in working with conflict prevention if there are no open military conflicts and are thus often reluctant to coordinate conflict prevention within and across regions. 36 In theory, the OSCE is an exception to this rule. In reality, however, the OSCE’s implementations are often introduced relatively late. With regard to conflict prevention, the old saying why fix it when it is not broken, becomes a sad reality in many instances. This line of reasoning would translate into an argument of why buy an insurance policy if you are not suffering from an illness. The counterargument and actual reality, however, is that when you need an insurance it is too late to get it. I do not argue that it is possible to prevent all potential conflicts – only that early prevention will decrease the number of conflicts that move to the level of unstable peace or war. Thereby, human suffering and the loss of economic capital can be prevented. Regional cooperation has been viewed as an important factor in handling conflicts for some time now. Despite initial recognition by a few scholars, regional cooperation had been largely neglected as a field of study up to the 1970s.37 Ernst Haas and John Moore concluded, for example, in the early 1970s that it was of great importance to study regional integration, as it would provide a laboratory for observing the peaceful creation of human communities. 38 Along the same line, Haas argued for studies that should compare the peacekeeping machinery of regional organizations with the United Nations’ structure and capacities. 39 The neglect of regional cooperation as a research area was to cease, and the numbers of studies on regional cooperation increased in the 1970s and 1980s. However, this coincided with a general decrease in political reliance on regional organizations, 40 although a few organizations, like the European Economic Community (EEC) increased its importance. 41 It was not until the 1990s that regional arrangements gained a central position in international affairs. Conflict prevention is arguably most suitable for the regional level. The reason for this is that states have a greater interest and are more committed to resolving conflicts in their immediate neighborhood, since such conflicts tend to have implications for the whole region and are thus a cause for regional concern. The International Peace Academy has moreover argued that, in many cases, states prefer to refer their disputes to regional bodies rather than to the UN. 42 This is partly due to the states' fear of losing control over the situation if it is dealt with within an international organization, and partly due to the common culture of prevention, i.e. a common set of core principles, 43 that often exist in a regional setting. The notion of core principles was the basis for attempts by the UN to generate an international culture of prevention 44 , a task that is far from being completed due to the differing perceptions globally. The UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has proposed an idea of a “loose and temporary global policy network” that would deal with prevention. 45 This wide and unclear approach has failed to establish a common understanding of the need and benefits of prevention and until this day, no global culture of prevention has developed. 46 On the international level, the actors are too diverse and lack trust in each other. As a result, it has been difficult to reach a common understanding and acceptance of prevention. Although attempts to establish a common perception of conflict prevention failed on the international level, studies on intra-regional relations indicate that regional actors are important. In addition, the UN has pointed out regional actors as crucial in the creation and implementation of a culture of prevention. The creation of common cultures of conflict prevention on a regional level is hoped to create a regional base for prevention, which later could be transformed into a more or less defined global culture of prevention. 47 The importance of regional actors, in this regard, is highlighted by, for example, the International Peace Academy, which has pointed out that the UN can not act on its own in conflict prevention, but needs to link up to regional organizations. 48 Due to the greater political commitment regionally, and the lack of a global structure and a common understanding of prevention, the creation of regional cultures of conflict prevention, which are shared by all regional members, are essential for conflict prevention to be fully effective. Regional actors are often best equipped for handling disputes in their own region and have also an incentive for long term commitment that other actors lack. Moreover, local disputes that states feel uncomfortable referring to the UN can be better dealt with at a local level through regional organizations. 49 It is also more likely that a regional, as opposed to a global, culture of prevention could be created as the regional identification is somewhat based on a cultural similarity and shared norms and values, even if there is always more variation in a region than expected. 50 The creation of a regional culture of prevention would stabilize and simplify peace-related work, especially in a region like Northeast Asia where there are no regional organizations and very little regional cooperation. 51 But as institutions are important for the creation of regional cultures of prevention, many regions that lack effective regional organizations seem to be somewhat deadlocked. 52 Regional organizations function as an aggregated form of national conflict prevention. By engaging in multilateral cooperation, some prevention is already achieved through acting as a unit with a specific purpose. The fact is that regional cooperation is often considered to be conflict preventative by nature. John Stuart Mill and Jean Monnet assumed that regional cooperation would create a more peaceful Europe. Robert Schuman and Konrad Adenauer also built on this assumption in their attempts to create peace by uniting Europe in a regional structure. The positive spirit continued and in 1966 Mitrany claimed, as noted earlier, that "the problem of our time is not how to keep nations peacefully apart but how to bring them actively together". However, the nature of the problem has proved to be harder than so. Regional organizations and cooperation, per se, is not necessarily a good conflict prevention mechanism. Rather, it is the mechanisms inside the organization and its mandate that largely determines the success of the preventive functions of the organization. 53 It could be argued that regional organizations that fail to fulfill their purpose generate conflicts. Examples of such organizations include SAARC, APEC and ARF that arguably have added more tension than they deducted from regional relations. The logic behind such arguments is that the expected outcome is not received, which creates tension and puts blame on the members. Even though the initiation and failure of cooperation may create increased tension that could be destabilizing rather than preventive, several authors have pointed out the importance of regional organizations as hubs for conflict prevention in their regions, such as OSCE, OAU, ASEAN, OAS and EU. 54 There are several important factors, which work in favor of using a regional approach to conflict prevention. Some of the positive traits are that the geographical proximity makes it easier for states to identify potential conflicts and that the limited size of the organization – in comparison to the UN and other global organizations– makes it easier to reach consensus and undertake action. In addition, by adopting a regional approach to conflict prevention, the measures become potentially more effective since they can be developed to suit the context and specific circumstances of a particular region. 55 Moreover, regional trade and economic interdependence facilitates a positive development in conflict prevention and integration. 56 Also, there are many internal conflicts that have substantial regional dimensions and would benefit, or even require regional solutions. For example, the ethnic diversification in Central Asia, potential refugee flows from for example North Korea and Nigeria in the case of conflict, and other “spillover” effects necessitate regional solutions. Despite the advantages of regional organizations as hosts for conflict preventive measures, there are also some negative aspects to the regional framework. The negative traits of regional organizations are their relative weakness and lack of logistical capability to deal with conflict prevention. Moreover, it is by definition impossible for any regional state to be impartial to a conflict in its neighborhood. Finally, regional organizations are many times constrained by their members' preferences, demand for consensus, and refusal to give a strong mandate to the organizations. 57 The OSCE is one of the major exceptions to this rule as it is given a strong mandate to act independently. Previous publications on regional organizations include several generic studies on Africa, Asia, Central America, Europe, North America, and the Middle East. However, few comprehensive studies on the conflict prevention mechanism in regional organizations have been conducted, especially in regards to Asia. 58 This is problematic, as Asia has emerged as one of the most important regions in the world both politically and economically, but also as a region with some of the worst conflicts and threats to regional and global stability. There is a growing fear among smaller states in all regions that stronger states will grow too strong and develop a strategy of regional intimidation to reach a position of regional domination. This has led to a situation where states in some regions are virtually involved in an arms race as a vain attempt to prevent one or a few states to dominate the other states. This is especially apparent in Northeast Asia, but it is a global problem and has worked against conflict prevention in several regions. 59 The ending of the Cold War and the development of post-Cold War values in Northeast Asia, such as democracy, human rights (HR), and free trade that are considered to be structurally preventive, have at least initially, somewhat paradoxically, created new problems. It has created societal and interstate tension that potentially could lead to violence and other serious challenges to states and societies. 60 A large number of states and regions are in the process of changing from autocratic or totalitarian forms of governance to open and free systems in the post-Cold War era. The problem is that many states in transition encounter large-scale violence and war, and in this regard democracy and free trade could, in the short run, be destabilizing, rather than conflict preventing. 61 In addition to the newly created tension, there is an array of old conflicts that have continued at a high level or even intensified. These include secessionist, demographic, and environmental conflicts, as well as disputes over water and resources. In many ways, this has created more insecurity and potentially more conflicts around the globe. To counter these new and old threats there are many regional organizations that have made conflict prevention a part of their mandate, at least on paper. The tremendous diversity among these organizations regarding mandate, members, focus and structure can be seen in the considerable organizational differences. These organizations do, however, share the desire to prevent conflicts at a multilateral level and increase good relations among their members. Among the international organizational actors, the United Nation remains the only one with a global mandate to intervene with conflict prevention measures. On a regional level, the OSCE is the only organization with a similar mandate. 62 Yet this is slowly changing on the international arena, where for example NATO has adopted a more global approach in its strategies and arguably also in regards to conflict prevention. However, in the regional sphere, the OSCE still remains the only organization with a strong mandate to undertake conflict prevention. Jan Eliasson et al have argued that the European experience is unique, as Europe is the only region that has given an organization (the OSCE) an explicit carte blanche to penetrate national sovereignty in an effort to increase conflict prevention. 
**Regionalism solves their transition wars arguments**
**Kupchan, ’03**
[Charles Kupchan, Associate Professor of Government @ The Walsh School of Foreign service, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “The Rise of Europe, America's Changing Internationalism, and the End of U.S. Primacy,” Political Science Quarterly, Summer, Vol. 118, Issue 2, Academic Search Premier]
As this new century progresses, unipolarity will give way to a world of multiple centers of power. As this transition proceeds, American grand strategy should focus on making both Europe and East Asia less reliant on U.S. power, while at the same time working with major states in both regions to promote collective management of the global system. The ultimate vision that should guide U.S. grand strategy is the construction of a concert-like directorate of the major powers in North America, Europe, and East Asia. These major powers would together manage developments and regulate relations both within and among their respective regions. They would also coordinate efforts in the battle against terrorism, a struggle that will require patience and steady cooperation among many different nations. Regional centers of power also have the potential to facilitate the gradual incorporation of developing nations into global flows of trade, information, and values. Strong and vibrant regional centers, for reasons of both proximity and culture, often have the strongest incentives to promote prosperity and stability in their immediate peripheries. North America might, therefore, focus on Latin America; Europe on Russia, the Middle East, and Africa; and East Asia on South Asia and Southeast Asia. Mustering the political will and the foresight to pursue this vision will be a formidable task. The United States will need to begin ceding influence and autonomy to regions that have grown all too comfortable with American primacy. Neither American leaders, long accustomed to calling the shots, nor leaders in Europe and East Asia, long accustomed to passing the buck, will find the transition an easy one. But it is far wiser and safer to get ahead of the curve and shape structural change by design than to find unipolarity giving way to a chaotic multipolarity by default. It will take a decade, if not two, for a new international system to evolve. But the decisions taken by the United States early in the twenty-first century will play a critical role in determining whether multipolarity reemerges peacefully or brings with it the competitive jockeying that has so frequently been the precursor to great power war in the past. 
**Independently – an equal alliance is key to effective cooperation - that stops multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Nye et al., 2K**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, [[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]] AP</span>
Asia, in the throes of historic change, should carry major weight in the calculus of American political, security, economic, and other interests. Accounting for 53 percent of the world's population, 25 percent of the global economy, and nearly $600 billion annually in two-way trade with the United States, Asia is vital to American prosperity. Politically, from Japan and Australia, to the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, and Indonesia, countries across the region are demonstrating the universal appeal of democratic values. China is facing momentous social and economic changes, the consequences of which are not yet clear. Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia. The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region made facto security architecture. In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world second-largest economy and a well-equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.- Japan alliance is central to America global security strategy. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Japan, too, is experiencing an important transition. Driven in large part by the forces of globalization, Japan is in the midst of its greatest social and economic transformation since the end of World War II. Japanese society, economy, national identity, and international role are undergoing change that is potentially as fundamental as that Japan experienced during the Meiji Restoration. The effects of this transformation are yet to be fully understood. Just as Western countries dramatically underestimated the potential of the modern nation that emerged from the Meiji Restoration, many are ignoring a similar transition the effects of which, while not immediately apparent, could be no less profound</span>. For the United States, the key to sustaining and enhancing the alliance in the 21st century lies in reshaping our bilateral relationship in a way that anticipates the consequences of changes now underway in Japan. Since the end of World War II, Japan has played a positive role in Asia. As a mature democracy with an educated and active electorate, Japan has demonstrated that changes in government can occur peacefully. Tokyo has helped to foster regional stability and build confidence through its proactive diplomacy and economic involvement throughout the region. Japan's participation in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Cambodia in the early 1990s, its various defense exchanges and security dialogues, and its participation in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Regional Forum and the new plus Three grouping are further testimony to Tokyo's increasing activism. Most significantly, Japan's alliance with the United States has served as the foundation for regional order. We have considered six key elements of the U.S.-Japan relationship and put forth a bipartisan action agenda aimed at creating an enduring alliance foundation for the 21st century. Post-Cold War Drift As partners in the broad Western alliance, the United States and Japan worked together to win the Cold War and helped to usher in a new era of democracy and economic opportunity in Asia. In the aftermath of our shared victory, however, the course of U.S.-Japan relations has wandered, losing its focus and coherence- -notwithstanding the real threats and potential risks facing both partners. Once freed from the strategic constraints of containing the Soviet Union, both Washington and Tokyo ignored the real, practical, and pressing needs of the bilateral alliance. Well-intentioned efforts to find substitutes for concrete collaboration and clear goal-setting have produced a diffuse dialogue but no clear definition of a common purpose. Efforts to experiment with new concepts of international security have proceeded fitfully, but without discernable results in redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">This lack of focus and follow-through has been evident in both countries. Some in Japan have been drawn to the notion of Asianization and the hope that economic interdependence and multilateral institutions would put the region on a path similar to that of Europe. Many in the United States regarded the end of the Cold War as an opportunity to return to economic priorities. The early 1990s was a period of heightened bilateral tensions, primarily over the question of access to Japanese markets. Some Americans saw economic competition from Japan as a threat. In the past five years, however, trade tensions have diminished. Envy and concern over Japanese economic prowess have turned to dismay over the Japanese recession and building financial crisis. Neither country dealt with the need to redefine and reinvigorate the </span>alliance. In fact, both took it for granted. The drift in the alliance was obvious until the mid-1990s when the crisis on the Korean peninsula-- punctuated by the horror of the Okinawa rape incident--captured the attention of policymakers in Washington and Tokyo. These episodes prompted them to recognize belatedly the costs of neglecting the bilateral relationship. The subsequent Taiwan Strait confrontation in March 1996 gave even more impetus to efforts on both sides of the Pacific to reaffirm the bilateral security alliance. The 1996 U.S.-Japan Joint Security Declaration went a long way toward directing attention in both capitals toward the need to refurbish the alliance, and led to concrete changes that updated defense ties in the form of the revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the 1996 report of the Special Action Committee on Okinawa, and the bilateral agreement to cooperate in theater missile defense research. But the symbolism of the 1996 declaration stood alone, unsupported by sustained high-level attention. As a result, the United States and Japan soon returned to bickering and poor policy coordination. The costs of the deterioration in the U.S.-Japan relationship have been insidious as well as obvious. By the end of the 1990s, many U.S. policymakers had lost interest in a Japan that appeared incapable of renewing itself. Indeed, Japan's prolonged recession has discouraged or dispirited even some Japanese officials. In Tokyo, many see Washington as arrogant and unable to recognize that its prescriptions are not universally applicable to others' economic, political, and social needs. A number of government officials and opinion-makers perceived the U.S. approach as a self serving rationale for commercial and economic interests and grew resentful of a United States seemingly preoccupied with its own self-centered version of globalization. It has been obvious that U.S. attention and interests have turned elsewhere in Asia. More recently, the principal focus of American policymakers has been the bilateral relationship with China--a relationship characterized by a series of crises ever since the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy demonstrations. Neither Washington nor Tokyo followed through aggressively on the security agenda set forth in the 1996 declaration, in large measure because of concerns over Beijing's hostile reaction to the reinvigoration of the security partnership. Beijing let it be known in no uncertain terms that it regarded the U.S.-Japan partnership as an important element of a broader effort by Washington to constrain its regional diplomacy. And as the United States and-- to a lesser extent--Japan sought to improve relations with China, both demonstrated a clear desire to downplay the notion of a containment strategy. In fact, the only active security dialogue between the United States and Japan has been a byproduct of a desire to coax North Korea out of its self-imposed isolation. The United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea all concur that close cooperation and unity of purpose offer the most effective strategy to deal with Pyongyang. This record of diffidence, uncertainty, and indirection has no single father, nor does it support an oversimplified laying of blame. Rather, it demands a recognition that the time has arrived for renewed attention to improving, reinvigorating, and refocusing the U.S.-Japan alliance. Both the United States and Japan face an uncertain security environment in Asia at a time of political transition and important change in both countries--for the United States, a new national leadership, and for Japan, a continuing process of economic, political, and social transformation. At the same time, political and economic uncertainties in China and Russia, the fragile nature of detente on the Korean peninsula, and the prospect of protracted instability in Indonesia--all pose shared challenges. For those who argue that Japan is a pasting asset in irreversible decline, it might be useful to recall that it has been only a decade since it was taken as an article of faith that American power was ebbing on the international scene. It would be foolhardy to underestimate the enduring dimensions of Japanese power, much as it was unwise for some Japanese to dismiss the latent and enduring qualities of American power in the 1980s and 1990s. Politics Over the past decade, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), faced with internal divisions, a clash of traditional interest group agendas, and a growing split among key constituencies, has focused primarily on hanging on to its dwindling power. At the same time, the political opposition has failed to produce credible, well-conceived policy proposals. The net effect is an LDP struggling to maintain its grip on the reins of government, an opposition unable to provide a governing alternative, and a Japanese public, faced with a lack of credible alternative leadership, reluctantly returning the LDP to office. The result has been a government stuck in neutral, incapable of more than muddling through. Nevertheless, the necessity of economic reform and restructuring, driven by the pressures of a relentless globalization of the international economy, are likely to lead to political change. These economic forces are breaking apart the monopoly power of the so-called Iron Triangle--the heretofore collusive relationships among politicians, business, and the bureaucracies-- and making power more diffuse. The Japanese political order is experiencing protracted change. Political changes in Japan could lead to unprecedented opportunities to reinvigorate the U.S.-Japan relationship--as well as test it further. The end of bipolar ideological confrontation in Japanese politics and the emergence of a new pragmatism about security affairs among a younger generation of elected officials provide fertile soil for creative new approaches to leadership. It would be unrealistic to expect the current leadership suddenly to embrace reform or to assume a higher profile on the global stage. The demands of Japan's parliamentary system make it difficult to implement policies, that require short-term pain in exchange for long-term gain. The political system is risk-averse. But the successor generations of politicians and the public at- large also recognize that economic power alone will no longer be enough to secure Japan's future. Moreover, the Japanese public, by giving official standing to the national flag and anthem, and in focusing on such territorial claims as the Senkaku islands, has evidenced a new respect for the sovereignty and integrity of the nation state. The implications for the U.S.-Japan relationship stemming from these changes are profound. A similar process is at work in the United States. The growing role of Congress as a force in foreign policy, the rising influence of state and local governments, and the dramatic transformation of the private sector as the initiator of economic change--driven by technology and the empowerment of the individual--are altering the influence of once-central foreign policymaking institutions. But, just as Japan's risk-averse political leadership has held back the nation's economic transformation, the lack of clear direction from Washington also has taken a toll. Episodic executive branch leadership has failed to produce a well-conceived game plan for America's relationship with Japan. This, in turn, has accelerated the erosion of political support and popular understanding of the importance of the alliance. In short, the political, economic, and social changes underway in the United States put an even greater premium on executive branch leadership in foreign affairs. If the United States can exercise leadership--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations with Japan, the two countries will be better able to realize the full potential for cooperation nurtured during the past 50 years. If the changes underway in Japan ultimately produce a stronger, more responsive political and economic system, the synergy in U.S.- Japan relations will enhance our abilities to play an engaged, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role in regional and global arenas in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship.

==Glenbrooks - Environment Advantage - Doubles== 
PLAN – The United States federal government should authorize the closing of Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and the withdrawal of its marine presence from Okinawa on the basis that it infringes on the habitat of the Okinawan Dugong by clarifying the intent of the National Environmental Policy Act is to be applied extraterritorially. 


===1AC – Glenbrooks – Inherency/Solvency=== 
**__Contention solvency__**
**Initially Note----The National Environmental Policy Act has been ruled to have no jurisdiction to the affairs of US agencies internationally due to a lack of explicit legislative intent to be applied extraterritorially**
**Nash, Emory School of Law Professor, 2010** [<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Jonathan Remy, “The Curious Legal Landscape of the Extraterritoriality of U.S. Environmental Laws”, VIRGINIA JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, 50 VIJL 997, May, Volume 50.4, Pg. 997, Accessed 7/27/2010, [[http://www.vjil.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/VJIL-50.4-Nash-Essay.pdf]], SM]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NEPA's language</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> indicates that Congress was concerned with both domestic and global environmental problems, it </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">does not state clearly whether Congress intended NEPA to apply extraterritorially.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Congress indicated its concern for global environmental issues, for instance, in section 102(2)(F) of NEPA, which directed federal agencies to "recognize the worldwide and long-range character of environmental problems." [[#r205]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n205|205]] Additionally, section 2 states Congress' intention that NEPA will "encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment," [[#r206]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n206|206]] not just between man and the national environment. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, however, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">limited the extraterritorial implications of its previous statements by making clear that any actions taken in furtherance of international environmental cooperation must be "consistent with the foreign policy of the United States</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">." [[#r207]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n207|207]] Furthermore, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NEPA's legislative history provides no indication whether Congress contemplated extraterritorial application. </span></span>[[#r208]]<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n208|208]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Congress' intention regarding the extraterritorial application of NEPA is thus "obscure." [[#r209]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n209|209]] </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As a result of Congress' conflicting statements, courts have declined to decide whether NEPA may be given extraterritorial effect, instead limiting their decisions to the facts of the cases before them</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Courts, therefore, "must determine whether Congress intended NEPA to apply under circumstances such as these and whether, under the unique facts presented, defendants have violated NEPA by failing to prepare a comprehensive EIS for actions taken ... within a foreign country ... ." </span></span>[[#r210]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n210|210]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The determination of whether Congress for example, the D.C. Circuit considered whether the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was required to prepare an EIS prior to exporting a nuclear reactor to the Philippines. [[#r214]]<span class="cardChar">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n214|214]]</span> In determining whether Congress intended NEPA to be applied extraterritorially to environmental impacts in the Philippines, the court concluded that, within the context of nuclear technology exports, imposition of U.S. standards on foreign nations would adversely affect U.S. nonproliferation objectives, as nations may be deterred from purchasing reliable nuclear technologies from the United States. [[#r215]]<span class="cardChar">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n215|215]]</span> Therefore, Congress did not intend for NEPA to impose an EIS requirement on nuclear export decisions with respect to environmental impacts occurring solely within foreign jurisdictions. [[#r216]]<span class="cardChar">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n216|216]]</span> The D.C. Circuit adopted a different approach in Environmental intended NEPA to apply extraterritorially must also take into consideration the foreign policy implications of extraterritorial application under those circumstances. [[#r211]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n211|211]] If applying NEPA extraterritorially would threaten U.S. foreign policy, courts [[#9494-232]] presume that Congress did not intend NEPA to apply extraterritorially in that case. [[#r212]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n212|212]] Given that NEPA's statutory language and legislative history do not clearly state congressional intent, courts have largely considered the U.S. foreign policy implications of applying NEPA extraterritorially to be determinative. [[#r213]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n213|213]] In Natural Resources Defense Council v. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRDC v. NRC), Defense Fund, Inc. v. Massey. [[#r217]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n217|217]] The Environmental Defense Fund alleged "that the National Science Foundation (NSF) [had] violated NEPA by failing to prepare an [EIS] in accordance with section 102(2)(C) before going forward with plans to incinerate food wastes in Antarctica." [[#r218]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n218|218]] In determining whether Congress intended NEPA to apply extraterritorially to actions in Antarctica, the court held that the presumption against extraterritoriality does not apply where "the alleged extraterritorial effect of the statute will be felt in Antarctica - [[#9494-233]] a continent without a sovereign," and where the United States exercised legislative control. [[#r219]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n219|219]] In doing so, the court recognized the foreign policy considerations illustrated in NRDC v. NRC, stating that "the government may avoid the EIS requirement where U.S. foreign policy interests outweigh the benefits derived from preparing an EIS." [[#r220]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n220|220]] Because there was no conflict of laws between the United States and Antarctica, the presumption against extraterritoriality did not apply. [[#r221]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n221|221]] The court, however, specifically limited its holding to Antarctica, where the potential for foreign policy conflicts is low, and did not decide "how NEPA might apply to actions in a case involving an actual foreign sovereign ... ." [[#r222]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n222|222]] The District Court for the District of Columbia subsequently held that NEPA does not require the DoD to prepare an EIS for U.S. military installations in Japan. [[#r223]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n223|223]] </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plaintiffs in NEPA Coalition of Japan v. Aspin argued that, following Massey, the court should apply NEPA extraterritorially</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[#r224]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n224|224]] </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The court</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> again limited its holding to the facts of the case, [[#r225]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n225|225]] but </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">held that the legal status of U.S. bases in Japan, a sovereign nation, "is not analogous to the status of American research stations in Antarctica," over which no state is sovereign</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[#r226]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n226|226]] The court also determined that </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">requiring the DoD to prepare EISs would risk interfering with the treaty relationship between the United States and Japan. The court explained that the United States would intrude on Japan's sovereignty in preparing EISs by collecting environmental data from areas outside the base</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [[#r227]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n227|227]] </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress, therefore, did not intend NEPA to apply "where there is a substantial likelihood that treaty relations will be affected</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">." [[#r228]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n228|228]] Following Aspin, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">it is unlikely that a court would support the extraterritorial application of NEPA to overseas military bases in any sovereign nation.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The concerns that the District Court for the District of Columbia raised in Aspin, that the preparation of EISs in [[#9494-234]] accordance with NEPA regulations would intrude on foreign nations' sovereignty and may conflict with the terms of international agreements, [[#r229]][[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=9986c2fa753b2e2bf40a51abed3146d0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAz&_md5=c25e43013fed3fa88764a1cf386597cf#n229|229]] are applicable to U.S. military bases and operations in any foreign nation. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A court would likely determine that, given the foreign policy implications, Congress did not intend NEPA to apply extraterritorially to U.S. military activities overseas</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>
**And, the activities of US military presence in the status quo will destroy the critical habitats of the Okinawan Dugongs**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenbaum</span></span>, <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">UT School of Law JD, 2009</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lauren Jensen, “The Okinawa Dugong and the Creative Application of U.S. Extraterritorial Environmental Law, Texas International Law Journal, 44 TILF 457, Wednesday, April 1 2009, [[http://www.tilj.org/journal/44/schoenbaum/Schoenbaum%2044%20Tex%20Intl%20LJ%20457.pdf]], SM]</span></span>
The latest threat to the Okinawa dugong is the planned relocation of the U.S. military base on Okinawa Island, known as the Futenma Replacement Facility (FRF).24 The U.S. has maintained some kind of military presence on Okinawa since the end of World War II.25 In 1972, the United States and Japan agreed the U.S. would relinquish all administrative rights and interests over the Okinawa Islands to Japan.26 Article III of the Agreement “granted the U.S. exclusive use of facilities and areas in the Islands in accordance with the ‘Treaty of Mutual Cooperation’ and ‘Security and the Status of Forces Agreement.’”27 The result of these agreements is that while Japan fully controls its own territory, the U.S. was granted use of Okinawa’s land, air, and facilities for the purpose of Japanese security and international peace.28 The key U.S. security issue today in the region is the threat from North Korea; U.S. military presence in the area is focused on monitoring North Korean provocations, including missile launches, and nuclear tests.29 Due to the significant activity at the current Futenma base and the surrounding area—currently, there are over 3,200 Marines stationed at the 480 hectare base—the U.S. is planning to relocate.30 The U.S. military cited improving the surrounding city’s infrastructure and promoting growth in the city as a key reason behind the move.31 In 1996, a joint American-Japanese committee approved an offshore, seabased facility off the east coast of Okinawa as the new location.32 This plan was later altered to incorporate both offshore and shoreline facilities.33 On May 1, 2006, Japan and the U.S. issued an agreement entitled “United States-Japan Roadmap for Realignment Implementation,” also known as the 2006 Roadmap.34 The 2006 Roadmap established a target date of 2014 to provide an overall realignment plan for U.S. military involvement in Okinawa.35 This agreement finalized the construction proposal to construct the FRF to combine the Henoko Point section of Camp Schwab (currently leased by the U.S.) with the adjacent waters of Oura and Henoko Bays.36 The 2006 Roadmap proposed a “V-shaped” runway to be partially built on landfill extending into Oura and Henoko Bays.37 The key remaining problem with this proposal is that the location of the FRF encompasses dugong habitats in Henoko and Oura Bays.38 Research completed by the UN and various environmental protection groups indicates that this particular location for the FRF would be devastating to the dugong habitat.39 Both Henoko Bay and Oura Bay are considered critical habitats for the Okinawa dugongs, and the current plan requires landfilling of the coral reefs and seafloor slopes of the bays.40 Despite alterations to the original plan, a 2006 poll showed that 70% of Okinawans remained opposed to the expansion.41 The New York Times also reported the FRF is opposed by 400 international environmental groups, 889 international experts on coral reefs, a majority of the voters in the adjacent town of Nago (in a 1997 referendum), and the thousands of individuals who have participated in sit-in protests that have been a common occurrence around the bays since 2003.42 
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEPA has legal application to resolve the problem – the only barrier is a lack of extraterritorial jurisdiction</span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenbaum</span></span>, <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">UT School of Law JD, 2009</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lauren Jensen, “The Okinawa Dugong and the Creative Application of U.S. Extraterritorial Environmental Law, Texas International Law Journal, 44 TILF 457, Wednesday, April 1 2009, [[http://www.tilj.org/journal/44/schoenbaum/Schoenbaum%2044%20Tex%20Intl%20LJ%20457.pdf]], SM]</span></span>
NEPA requires federal agencies to “integrate environmental values into their decision making processes by considering the environmental impacts of their proposed actions and reasonable alternatives to those actions.”55 Major undertakings by federal agencies that are found to significantly affect the quality of the environment require the agency to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to determine the environmental impacts of the proposed action. 56 NEPA itself does not require any specific action based on the EIS; the findings go to the EPA, which is then legally required to comply with the procedural requirements of the EIS.57 It seems this law would be a germane method to require the DOD to consider the impacts of the new base on the dugong, and the EIS is remarkably similar to the court-ordered research in Gates. However, the courts have expressly rejected international application of NEPA when there is a strong possibility of conflicting laws of the two sovereign nations. Until 1993, the international application of NEPA was an “open question in the courts.”58 This question was answered in part when the D.C. Circuit court held in Environmental Defense Fund, Inc. v. Massey that NEPA protections could extend to a U.S. research station in Antarctica.59 Although the court found NEPA could extend beyond the U.S. border to the Antarctic, the court, in dicta, restricted the extraterritorial application of the act to areas not expressly governed by another nation.60 That same year, the D.C. district court considered the potential of requiring the Department of Defense to complete an EIS for U.S. military installations in Japan in NEPA Coalition of Japan v. Aspin.61 The court did not extend Environmental Defense Fund beyond Antarctica, which it likened more to space 
=== === 


===1AC – Glenbrooks – Environment Advantage=== 
**__Contention 2 is environment__**
**Global ecosystems are on the brink of collapse – recent studies prove we are reaching the “tipping point” of environmental degredation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Knight ‘10</span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Matthew, Cites the GBO and CBD: The GBO-3 is a landmark study in what is the U.N.'s International Year of Biodiversity and will play a key role in guiding the negotiations between world governments at the U.N. Biodiversity Summit in Nagoya, Japan in October 2010. The CBD -- an international treaty designed to sustain diversity of life on Earth -- was set up at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, May 10, “U.N. report: Eco-systems at 'tipping point'”, http://edition.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/americas/05/10/biodiversity.loss.report/index.html?eref=igoogle_cnn)</span></span>
The world's <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">eco-systems are at risk of "rapid degradation and collapse" according to a new U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">N</span>ations <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">report</span>. The third Global Biodiversity Outlook (GBO-3) published by the Convention on Biological Diversity (<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">CBD) warns that unless "swift</span>, radical and creative <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">action" is taken "massive further loss is increasingly likely</span>." Ahmed Djoghlaf, executive secretary of the CBD said in a statement: "The news is not good. We continue to lose biodiversity at a rate never before seen in history." The U.N. warns <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">several </span>eco-systems including the Amazon rainforest, freshwater lakes and rivers and coral reefs <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">are approaching a "tipping point" which</span>, if reached, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">may see them never recover</span>. The report says that no government has completely met biodiversity targets that were first set out in 2002 -- the year of the first GBO report. Executive Director of the U.N. Environmental Program Achim Steiner said there were key economic reasons why governments had failed in this task. "Many economies remain blind to the huge value of the diversity of animals, plants and other life-forms and their role in healthy and functioning eco-systems," Steiner said in a statement. Although many countries are beginning to factor in "natural capital," Steiner said that this needs "rapid and sustained scaling-up." Despite increases in the size of protected land and coastal areas, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">biodiversity trends</span> reported in the GBO-3 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">are almost entirely negative</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Vertebrate species fell by nearly one third</span> between 1970 and 2006, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">natural habitats are in decline, genetic diversity of crops is falling and sixty breeds of livestock have become extinct</span> since 2000. Nick Nuttall, a U.N. Environmental Program spokesman, said the cost of eco-systems degradation is huge. "In terms of land-use change, it's thought that the annual financial loss of services eco-systems provide -- water, storing carbon and soil stabilization -- is about &euro50 billion ($64 billion) a year," Nuttall told CNN. "If this continues we may well see by 2050 a cumulative loss of what you might call land-based natural capital of around &euro95 trillion ($121 trillion)," he said.
**However, The current international law regime fails at protecting the environment – only applying US laws extra-territorially can fill in the gaps**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abate</span></span>, Rutgers School of Law Legal Writing Faculty, 200<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span></span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Randall S., B.A., University of Rochester; J.D., M.S.E.L., Vermont Law School, “Dawn of a New Era in the Extraterritorial Application of U.S. Environmental Statutes: A Proposal for an Integrated Judicial Standard Based on the Continuum of Context”, 31 Colum. J. Envtl. L. 87, Accessed 8/4/10, L/N] soap</span>
Second, international environmental law lacks adequate enforcement mechanisms and needs the aggressive protection that U.S. environmental laws can offer for enhanced protection of global commons resources. Environmental problems do not [*90] recognize geopolitical boundaries. Consequently, a burgeoning body of international environmental law has emerged to address this reality in a largely cooperative framework. However, despite their ambitious and well-intentioned objectives, international environmental legal instruments are plagued by ineffective enforcement mechanisms, which often expose the vulnerable environmental resources in question to continued degradation. International environmental law has not, however, trumped the need for extraterritorial application of U.S. laws to protect the environment. If anything, the need for extraterritorial application of U.S. environmental laws is greater now than ever before. Application of U.S. environmental laws beyond U.S. territorial boundaries under appropriate circumstances can be an indispensable weapon in fulfilling the goal of meaningful environmental protection on a global scale.
**The plan would spur US leadership in global environmental protection – applying NEPA is uniquely key**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The American University Law Review ‘94</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The American University Law Review, “THE EXTRATERRITORIAL REACH OF NEPA'S EIS REQUIREMENT AFTER ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND v. MASSEY”, Fall 1994, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=3e0c50ffff7aa5163e8ffd3dc6a0d3a6&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAb&_md5=43ee9f43db832720a0fbcd4baba9757d]]</span>, Lexis-Nexis, Accessed 8/7/10] soap</span></span>
Despite the contrary determination of some courts, consistent application of NEPA to the international activities of federal agencies is beneficial to the United States for two reasons. First, compliance with NEPA requirements abroad will help protect the United States from the creation of, and liability for, international disasters. 250 One basis for liability for environmental damage can be found in principle 21 of The Stockholm Declaration on the Human Environment. 251 Second, the United States' international reputation will be improved by taking a leadership role in protection of the global environment. 252 Why should the United States have one environmental standard for actions it takes within its borders, and a lesser standard for actions it takes elsewhere? NEPA's enactment in 1969 heralded a new era in international environmental protection. Other nations have followed suit with similar legislation of their own. 253 The United Nations, 254 the [*318] European Community, 255 and the World Bank 256 have all adopted environmental impact assessment agreements. 257 The next step for the United States is to legitimize and foster environmental protection legislation worldwide. 258

**And, an extraterritorial NEPA fosters global environmental protection – spurs international action and cooperation modeled off NEPA**
**Caldwell ‘98**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lynton K. Caldwell, Arthur F. Bentley Professor of Political Science Emeritis and Professor of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University, “ESSAY: BEYOND NEPA: FUTURE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT” The Harvard Environmental Law Review, 1998, 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, SM]</span>
Readers may. Increased understanding of the transnational character of environmental problems has led toward a wonder why this Essay addresses international and global issues when NEPA applies only to action taken in the United States or by federal officials. The reason is that the United States is increasingly involved in global affairs, many having major environmental implications. In many of these situations, action by a U.S. agency automatically invokes NEPA. Although there has been controversy over the extent of NEPA's application to events overseas, there appears to be growing acceptance that NEPA means what it declares: the Act "promote[s] efforts which will prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere." n64 The number of transnational issues involving the United States and relevant to NEPA is large and growing. A complete list of examples would be long, but international trade and environment, global climate change, and effect of U.S. domestic policies on transnational issues would [*229] be prominent among them. World trends today that impact the future give NEPA a significance beyond that which it has had heretofore. The Act provides an agenda for addressing the transnational environmental issues of the future in which the United States is unavoidably involved convergence of national and international environmental law. n65 A growing body of positive international law and soft law (e.g., charters, declarations, resolutions) has been adopted or recognized by international organizations, especially organizations associated with the United Nations system. n66 International conventions (i.e., treaties) are the principal expressions of universal international environmental law. Under the Constitution of the United States, an international treaty, when ratified by the Senate, becomes analogous in important respects to a constitutional amendment. n67 Through this device, birds migrating between Canada and the United States were brought under federal protection, whereas previously all wildlife fell under the jurisdiction of the separate States. n68 International efforts, like efforts in the United States, to establish environmental protection as positive international law have been divided between declaring obligations of governments and rights of persons. The obligations of governments approach has been more inferential than direct. The United Nation's 1982 World Charter for Nature n69 would in principle impose obligations on governments but provides no way to enforce compliance. Although [*230] overwhelmingly endorsed by the U.N. General Assembly (the United States cast the only dissenting vote), few nations intended to honor its precepts. The occasion had as much to do with the internal politics of the General Assembly as with concern for the global environment. An indirect approach to national obligations has been through the internationally proposed requirement of environmental impact assessments modeled after NEPA. A resolution proposing a treaty to require signatory governments to prepare environmental assessments and to consult with other governments on potentially harmful proposals was introduced in the Senate on January 24, 1977 by Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island. n70 The Resolution passed the Senate by voice vote on July 21, 1978, but no further action was taken by Congress. The international environmental assessment proposition was still alive in April 1979 when the concept was presented to the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme. The U.N. Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context n71 was signed on February 25, 1991 in Espoo, Finland. The United States signed the treaty but has not ratified it. As of early 1991 the treaty had not been ratified by a sufficient number of parties to enter into force. In 1989 at an International Congress in Rome, Amedeo Postiglione, a distinguished Italian jurist, proposed drafting a Universal Convention for the Environment as a Human Right that would have incorporated both the governmental obligations and individual rights approaches. The Convention, he declared, "should specify an individual's inalienable legal rights and establish an adequate level of information, participation, and actions necessary to maintain those rights and . . . should also define the main obligations of the individual States [and] . . . must identify the people responsible for promoting and protecting this human right." n72 In 1990 the Economic Commission for Europe proposed a Charter on Environmental Rights and Obligations. An initial version was published in [*231] the now-discontinued Brundtland Bulletin. n73 An acceptable version is still under consideration. In addition, Jacques Cousteau proposed an amendment to the U.N. Charter for transgenerational environmental equity. As of 1997 none of these efforts had succeeded, but they express an international concern which, while possibly premature, may become realizable in the future. The concept of global international environmental responsibility has been advanced by United Nations conferences on the environment and by resolutions adopted by the U.N. General Assembly. The Declaration of Principles adopted by the 1972 U.N. Conference at Stockholm asserted the fundamental human right to "an environment of a quality that permits a life of dignity and well-being." n74 It also asserted "a solemn responsibility to protect and improve the environment for present and future generations." n75 But the emphasis of the twenty-five principles declared at Stockholm was clearly on responsibilities rather than rights. The shorter Stockholm Declaration on the Human Environment was foremost a statement of duties and responsibilities. After setting forth the imperative to defend and improve the human environment, Paragraph 7 declared that: To achieve this environmental goal will demand the acceptance of responsibility by citizens and communities and by enterprises and institutions at every level, all sharing equitably in common efforts. Individuals in all walks of life as well as organizations in many fields, by their values and the sum of their actions, will shape the world environment of the future. Local and national governments will bear the greatest burden for large-scale environmental policy and action within their jurisdictions. International co-operation is also needed in order to raise resources to support the developing countries in carrying out their responsibilities in this field. A growing class of environmental problems, because they are regional or global in [*232] extent or because they affect the common international realm, will require extensive co-operation among nations and action by international organizations in the common interest. The Conference calls upon Governments and peoples to exert common efforts for the preservation and improvement of the human environment, for the benefit of all the people and for their posterity. n76 During the 1970s and 1980s, international commitment to environmental sustainability grew significantly. At Stockholm in 1972, less developed nations suspected that their economic development would be retarded by the environmental agenda proposed by the developed nations. In contrast, the 1992 U.N. Conference in Rio de Janeiro marked, at least rhetorically, a near-global consensus on the necessity for environmental protection as a condition for sustainable development. Principles of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development adopted on June 14, 1992 declared that: States shall cooperate in a spirit of global partnership to conserve, protect and restore the health and integrity of the Earth's ecosystem. In view of the different contributions to global environmental degradation, States have common but differentiated responsibilities. The developed countries acknowledge the responsibility that they bear in the international pursuit of sustainable development in view of the pressures their societies place on the global environment and of the technologies and financial resources they command. n77 The significance of these non-operational statements is that the Conferences felt obligated to declare them. They have more than rhetorical significance, however, because they officially declare beliefs about how nations ought to behave in relation to environmental and transnational affairs. It is common for nations, like people, to acknowledge moral principles which they disregard in practice. Yet acknowledgment of a moral imperative to environmental stewardship may be a necessary first step toward effective international action. Policy statements today may become legal obligations tomorrow. [*233] In efforts to actualize these principles the developed nations thus far have failed to provide consistent leadership. Disagreement over the application of NEPA to American involvement in on-the-ground action beyond national territory has permitted the United States to pursue an ambivalent course in international environmental cooperation. Yet no nation can wholly escape the disasters that threaten (directly or indirectly) the world's environment. The United States has led the world in many aspects of environmental protection, but it has not given this protection a place in its own fundamental law. It is still possible for the federal government to ignore, finesse, or reverse commitments and, where there is no clear substantive constitutional mandate, to disregard the constitutional obligation of the President to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. An eminent professor of international law, Quincy Wright, cited numerous commentators whom he declared had clearly shown the importance of national constitutions in determining the actual capacity of States to exercise power and meet responsibilities under international law. n78 At least forty-four countries have been identified as having some form of environmental protection provision in their national constitutions. n79
**And, a global NEPA solves – its provisions set a framework for environmental sustainability**
**Caldwell 98**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lynton K. Caldwell, Arthur F. Bentley Professor of Political Science Emeritis and Professor of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University, “ESSAY: BEYOND NEPA: FUTURE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT” The Harvard Environmental Law Review, 1998, 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, SM]</span>
A distinguishing feature of any society is its prevailing assumptions about its relationship to the Earth. The history of cultures--especially of religions--reveals a great number of cosmologies, the perceived relationships of people to their planetary environment. Today the survival of living species may depend first, upon the degree to which [hu]mankind's concept of its environmental situation corresponds to biophysical realities and second, upon what humans value, and how these values are expressed in relation to these realities. Archeology has recorded the failure of societies that have misconceived the requirements for environmental sustainability. During the earlier centuries of human history the impact of society on its environment was relatively light and local. If an environment, for whatever reason, became unsustainable, people could often move on to new lands, often displacing or destroying the original inhabitants. When degradation of the environment was slow or scarcely perceptible, the consequences of its decline often were not felt until they were irreversible. Where human numbers were small relative to space, migration permitted impaired environments to recover, at least partially. But many areas of the Earth have never recovered from the degradation of centuries-long misuse, and still more are headed toward impoverishment. In a world filled with people and settlements, the option of migration is increasingly unavailable. Recognition of narrowing environmental options has led in recent decades to conservation practices assisted by the growth of science, to the comparative measurement of environmental change, and to forecasts of the probable consequences of present trends. The conservation of natural resources movement has had a paradoxical effect upon human perceptions of environmental realities. While the conservation movement contributed both to the emergence of applied ecology and public environmental concern, many conservationists rejected environmentalism (often called preservationism) as uneconomical, unrealistic and anti-social. Economy and efficiency in the wise use of resources has been the essence of "conservation," which sees the environment as infinitely manageable--capable of sustained productivity under the guidance of experts knowledgeable of science. In this respect, conservationism [*236] is fundamentally consistent with the Western worldview, especially that which prevailed during the era of U.S. Progressivism in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. n82 Environmentalism emerged in the latter half of the twentieth century from a convergence of changing perceptions of the human condition in fields as diverse as ecology, public health, demography, climatology, cosmology, and ethics. When its true dimensions, assumptions, and expectations are understood, environmentalism is, as Robert Nisbet observed, revolutionary. n83 Its effect upon human society is comparable to the changed views of reality inherent in the Copernican cosmic revolution in the seventeenth century and the Darwinian evolution revolution in the nineteenth century. To some, this conclusion may seem to be an exaggerated estimate of the influence of environmentalism and its future prospects. Following initial successes of environmental protection efforts, there has been in many countries (including the United States) an anti-government reaction that has sometimes been violent. n84 It is doubtful that in the long run the "green backlash" will prevail. Its angry proponents are chiefly natural resources industries, land developers and speculators, libertarians, and their allies in public office. Still the counter-intuitive behavior of social systems makes any forecast of the future uncertain. Nevertheless there are ascertainable, measurable trends in today's world that strongly suggest the impending negative impact of powerful coercive environmental events upon human society in the twenty-first century. Adherence to principles like those expressed in NEPA may become more a matter of necessity than of voluntary choice. The way in which people and their governments respond to the prospect of these coercions will shape the future of the world. The timing of effective response is equally important. The longer the delay, the more [*237] difficult the task and the greater the possibility of irremediable damage. Because the future of the world in the twenty-first century cannot be foreseen, we can only conjecture the true location of NEPA on the trajectory of history. I offer the following assessment of the significance of NEPA, fully realizing that, at least in the short run, the world is capable of unpredictable turns. NEPA is most fully understood as a national policy for henceforward into the future. "Environment" may be understood as a surrogate term for a concept more comprehensive than is usually appreciated. Our language tends to lag behind new insights. Among our most persistent and pervasive misconceptions is the artificial dichotomy of economy/ecology. Their true relationship might be suggested by the time-space concept in physics. The concepts of ecology and economy are not the same--they are distinguishable, but, paradoxically, also inseparable. n85 In mundane reality there are obvious conflicts within and between the "domains" of economy and the environment. Yet both these aspects of our world are in actuality inextricable--separable by cultural convention and for analytic purposes. In reality they should have a common inclusive name. Achievement of a national policy for the environment requires awareness of the ecology/economy interrelationship, of the direction toward which the world appears to be moving, and a growth of consensus on the kind of future that is desirable and sustainable. A national policy for the future of the environment cannot be achieved in isolation from other major societal issues. Issues of population, material growth, property rights and obligations, and basic social equities involve choices which many people would prefer not to make. But the world today is not a "new age of Aquarius," free from ultimate accountability to nature, if not to humanity. Regardless of what we may deny or resist, our society will in one way or another be compelled to accommodate its behaviors [*238] to the inexorable workings of the world. But apocalypse need not be a preordained outcome for a society that marshals and moves its moral, material, intellectual, and organizational capabilities toward attainment of a preferred and sustainable future. IX. AN AGENDA FOR THE FUTURE The National Environmental Policy Act may be seen as a charter and agenda to guide this nation toward rational strategies for coping with the critical environmental problems that are present and growing. The United States has the material and intellectual capabilities for setting a non-hegemonic example for the world. Whether it can generate a collective moral purpose to do so remains uncertain. As individuals, there is little that people can do to reverse destructive socio-ecological trends. Voluntary local initiatives may help where there is a sense of community purpose. But our fundamental environmental problems transcend [hu]manmade boundaries and require solutions commensurate with the problems, which are increasingly seen to be transnational, even global. The 1968 Biosphere Conference and the 1972 and 1992 U.N. conferences on the environment testify to an international recognition of mankind's environmental predicament. Yet in a world governed by nations, national action is necessary, not only for each nation, but for international cooperation. Action on any major social issue requires a credible collective purpose, catalytic leadership, and popular receptivity. There is strong evidence that the last of these--public support for environmental action--already exists. A goal-directed agenda is necessary to focus and activate social effort, for without such a codification of purpose, there can be no concerted action. Translation of social purpose into action is a function of leadership. To cope with the environmental predicament of mankind, leadership must be national and participatory, involving all sectors of society, but with an indispensable responsibility in government which is the affirming and coordinative institution for nationwide and international effort. For the United States, NEPA provides a comprehensive agenda for the environmental future. NEPA creates a foundation for a unifying national effort and legitimizes its goals and principles as [*239] national policy. Beyond NEPA, specific, targeted action programs are needed to achieve its intent. NEPA may be regarded, in effect, as a constitution for the environment--principles to guide the nation toward an enhanced quality of life and an enduring environmental future.
**Global US-Led environmental protection efforts are key to stop extinction**
Paul G. **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris</span></span>**, Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘1</span></span>** (“The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy”, p. 252-253)
In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust acceptance by the U.S. government of international equity as an objective of global environmental policy and indeed of foreign policy generally has potentially beneficial implications for humankind. Implementation of the equity provisions of international environmental arrangements may reduce human suffering by helping to prevent changes to local, regional, and global environmental commons that would adversely affect people, most notably the many poor people in the economically developing countries who are least able to cope with environmental changes. Insofar as environmental protection policies focus on sustainable economic development, human suffering may be mitigated as developing countries especially the least-developed countries are aided in meeting the basic needs of their citizens. Economic disparities within and between countries are growing. At least one-fifth of the world's population already lives in the squalor of absolute poverty.' This situation can be expected to worsen in the future. If this process can be mitigated or reversed by international policies focusing on environmentally sustainable economic development, human well-being on a global scale will rise. What is more, international cooperative efforts to protect the environment that are made more likely and more effective by provisions for international equity will help governments protect their own environment and the global environment if they are successful. Insofar as the planet is one biosphere that it is in the case of ozone depletion and climate change seems indisputable persons in every local and national community are simultaneously members of an interdependent whole. Most activities, especially widespread activities in the United States and the rest of the industrialized world, including the release of ozone-destroying chemicals and greenhouse gases, are likely to adversely affect many or possibly all persons on the planet. Efforts to prevent such harm or make amends for historical harm (i.e., past pollution, which is especially important in these examples because many pollutants continue doing harm for years and often decades) require that most communities work together. Indeed, affluent lifestyles in the United States, Western Europe, and other developed areas may harm people in poor areas of the world more than they will harm those enjoying such lifestyles because the poor are ill-equipped to deal with the consequences." Furthermore, by concerning themselves with the consequences of their actions on the global poor and polluted, Americans and the citizens of other developed countries will be helping their immediate neighbors and themselves in the long run. Actualization of international equity in conjunction with sustainable development may help prevent damage to the natural environment worldwide, thereby promoting human prosperity. The upshot is that the United States has not gone far enough in actively accepting equity as an objective of global environmental policy. It ought to go further in doing so for purely self-interested reasons. But there are more than self-interested reasons for the United States to move in this direction. It ought to embrace international equity as an objective of its global environmental policy for ethical reasons as well. We can find substantial ethical justification for the United States, in concert with other developed countries, to support politically and financially the codification and implementation of international equity considerations in international environmental agreements. The United States ought to be a leader in supporting a fair and just distribution among countries of the benefits, burdens, and decision-making authority associated with international environmental relations.' To invoke themes found in the corpus of ethical philosophy (but without here assuming the burden of philosophical exegesis!), the United States ought to adopt policies that engender international equity in at least the environmental field (1) to protect the health and well-being of the human species; (2) to promote basic human rights universally; (3) to help the poor be their own moral agents (a Kantian rationale); (4) to help right past wrongs and to take responsibility for past injustices (i.e., past and indeed ongoing U.S. pollution of the global environment); (5) to aid the world's least-advantaged people and countries (a Rawlsian-like conception); (6) and to fulfill the requirement of impartiality (among other ethical reasons)62óall in addition to the more clearly self-interested justification that doing so will bolster U.S. credibility and influence in international environmental negotiations and contemporary global politics more generally. One might argue, therefore, that the United States ought to be aiding the developing countries to achieve sustainable development because to do so may simultaneously reduce human suffering and reduce or potentially reverse environmental destruction that could otherwise threaten the healthy survival of the human species. Insofar as human-caused pollution and resource exploitation deny individuals and their communities the capacity to survive in a healthy condition, the United States, which consumes vastly more than necessary, has an obligation to stop that unnecessary consumption. From this basic rights perspective," the U.S. government should also take steps to reduce substantially the emissions of pollutants from within the United States that harm people in other countries." The United States ought to refrain from unsustainable use of natural resources and from pollution of environmental commons shared by people living in other countries or at least make a good effort toward that end because the people affected by these activities cannot reasonably be expected to support them (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument"). The developed countries, especially the United States, deserve the bulk of the blame for historical pollution contributing to climate change. Although the net emissions of greenhouse gases from developing countries are growing fast, the per capita emissions will remain very low relative to the United States, Australia, and other developed countries." Thus, the United States ought to make sure, using Henry Shue's words, that "Poor nations ought not be asked to sacrifice in any way the pace or extent of their own economic development in order to help to prevent the climate [or other environmental] changes set in motion by the process of industrialization that has enriched others [i.e., Americans]."" The United States also ought to undertake policies that help the least-well-off countries and individuals in the world who are suffering from environmental changes (e.g., the people of Bangladesh and the small island states who will sufferóthey argue that they already are sufferingóthe most from sea-level rise caused by global warming) because that is likely what Americans would expect of others were the United States in similar circumstances."
**__Scenario One is Biodiversity:__**

**NEPA is key to biodiversity but increased enforcement and application abroad is key**
**Bear ’94** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Dinah Bear; General Counsel, Council on Environmental Quality, Washington, D.C.; Biodiversity Symposium: Using The National Environmental Policy Act To Protect Biological Diversity”[[#8546-]]SM]</span>
The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [[#r2]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n2|2]]</span> (NEPA) is an undervalued but significant legal tool for advancing federal protection of biological diversity. Though best known for its requirement that federal agencies prepare environmental impact statements (EISs) on "major federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment," [[#r3]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n3|3]]</span> NEPA's purpose is not the production of lengthy documents, but rather the implementation of policies consistent with the protection of the diversity of life. NEPA is the only federal law that requires all federal agencies to consider the reasonably foreseeable impacts of proposed federal actions on all plants and animals. [[#r4]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n4|4]]</span> Other environmental laws either protect particular kinds of wildlife, such as threatened and endangered species or migratory birds, or specifically address resource management for one particular agency. In current scientific literature, biological diversity is commonly evaluated in the context of communities organized within ecosystems. [[#r5]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n5|5]]</span> For this and other reasons, federal land management agencies including the Bureau of Land Management and the Fish and Wildlife Service have adopted "ecosystem management" as a goal. [[#r6]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n6|6]]</span> However, the jurisdictional [[#8546-79]] framework of the current land management laws is commonly identified as a major barrier to ecosystem management. [[#r7]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n7|7]]</span> In contrast to other land management and natural resources law, NEPA stands apart as the one legal tool which drives analysis towards, rather than against, an ecosystem model. [[#r8]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n8|8]]</span> Nothing in NEPA or in the Council on Environmental Quality's (CEQ) implementing regulations [[#r9]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n9|9]]</span> links the requirements for analysis of ecological impacts to artificial administrative boundaries. NEPA's requirements are also well suited to the emerging and evolving state of conservation biology that is used to analyze the impacts of federal actions on biological diversity. First, NEPA provides a mandate for agencies to obtain needed ecological information on a proposed federal action. [[#r10]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n10|10]]</span> However, rather than requiring absolute or even reasonable certainty prior to proceeding with action, NEPA only requires agencies to present and evaluate the existing credible scientific evidence. [[#r11]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n11|11]]</span> Second, under NEPA, the CEQ regulations provide a procedural framework for keeping environmental analyses current as significant new information is identified. [[#r12]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n12|12]]</span> Finally, once the analytical and public involvement process has been completed, the agency is free to proceed with the action proposed. NEPA does not prevent action from proceeding in the face of uncertainty; [[#r13]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=11e4b4b6b7a1697e476530ab4632f8a0&csvc=le&cform=byCitation&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzz-zSkAz&_md5=bbb4048ddb72541272f3571ef79f82a7#n13|13]]</span> it simply requires that the decision maker and the public be aware of that uncertainty. Use of NEPA to conserve biological diversity, while increasing, is hindered by insufficient understanding of both biological diversity and [[#8546-80]] NEPA, significant gaps in environmental baseline information and accessibility, controversy about NEPA's applicability to United States actions abroad, and, finally, tensions between the federal government's policy statements regarding the conservation of biological diversity and its position in current NEPA litigation.
**Extinction and invisible threshold – err aff**
**Diner 1994.** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[David. Major-JAG Corps US Army. Military Law Review]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man has. In most cases, people have assumed the God-like power of life and death -- extinction or survival -- over the plants </span>and animals of the world. For most of history, mankind pursued this domination with a single-minded determination to master the world, tame the wilderness, and exploit nature for the maximum benefit of the human race. n67 In past mass extinction episodes, as many as ninety percent of the existing species perished, and yet the world moved forward, and new species replaced the old. So why should the world be concerned now? The prime reason is the world's survival. Like all animal life, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">humans live off of other species</span>. At some point, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the number of species could decline to the point at which the ecosystem fails, and then humans</span> also would <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">become extinct. No one knows how many [*171] species the world needs to support human life, and to find out</span> -- by allowing certain species to become extinct -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">would not be sound policy</span>. In addition to food, species offer many direct and indirect benefits to mankind. n68 2. Ecological Value. -- Ecological value is the value that species have in maintaining the environment. Pest, n69 erosion, and flood control are prime benefits certain species provide to man. Plants and animals also provide additional ecological services -- pollution control, n70 oxygen production, sewage treatment, and biodegradation. n71 3. Scientific and Utilitarian Value. -- Scientific value is the use of species for research into the physical processes of the world. n72 Without plants and animals, a large portion of basic scientific research would be impossible. Utilitarian value is the direct utility humans draw from plants and animals. n73 Only a fraction of the [*172] earth's species have been examined, and mankind may someday desperately need the species that it is exterminating today. To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew n74 could save mankind may be difficult for some. Many, if not most, species are useless to man in a direct utilitarian sense. Nonetheless, they may be critical in an indirect role, because their extirpations could affect a directly useful species negatively. In a closely interconnected ecosystem, the loss of a species affects other species dependent on it. n75 Moreover, as the number of species decline, the effect of each new extinction on the remaining species increases dramatically. n76 4. Biological Diversity. -- The main premise of species preservation is that diversity is better than simplicity. n77 As the current mass extinction has progressed, the world's biological diversity generally has decreased. This trend occurs within ecosystems by reducing the number of species, and within species by reducing the number of individuals. Both trends carry serious future implications. Biologically diverse ecosystems are characterized by a large number of specialist species, filling narrow ecological niches. These ecosystems inherently are more stable than less diverse systems. "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The more complex the ecosystem, the more successfully it can resist a stress</span>. . . . [l]ike a net, in which each knot is connected to others by several strands, such a fabric can resist collapse better than a simple, unbranched circle of threads -- which if cut anywhere breaks down as a whole." n79 By causing widespread extinctions, humans have artificially simplified many ecosystems. As biologic simplicity increases, so does the risk of ecosystem failure. The spreading Sahara Desert in Africa, and the dustbowl conditions of the 1930s in the United States are relatively mild examples of what might be expected if this trend continues. Theoretically, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">each new animal or plant extinction</span>, with all its dimly perceived and intertwined affects, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">could cause total ecosystem collapse and human extinction. Each new extinction increases the risk of disaster.</span> Like a mechanic removing, one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">[hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>
**Outweighs any other impact**
**Chen, 2K**
(Jim, Prof of law U of Minnesota, Now Dean of Law School at Louisville “Globalization and Its Losers”, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157’ HeinOnline)
The spread of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Homo sapiens </span>around the earth<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> have brought about mass extinctions and related ecological changes on a scale not seen since the </span>Cretaceous period. In its evolutionary impact, comprehensive human colonization of the planet easily out- classes an ice age, or even twenty.' The previous geological event of comparable magnitude ushered out the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">dinosaurs</span>; the one before that, the mass extinction that closed out the Permian period, nearly ended the terrestrial tenure of what we arro- gantly call "higher" life forms.2 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In </span>the last <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">600 million years</span> of geological history, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">only five </span>previous <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">extinction spasms have taken place</span>.3 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">We are</span> living - or perhaps more accurately, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">dying - through the sixth</span>.4 "[Half the world's species will be extinct or on the verge of extinction" by the end of the twenty-first century.5 In environmental terms, globalization merely continues what humanity has been doing since the glaciers last re- treated: subdue every niche within its reach. he spectacle of mass extinction gives rhetorical ammuni- tion to all opponents of globalization - not just environmental- ists, but also those who resist free trade as a threat to labor standards, cultural independence, religious values, declining languages, agricultural self-sufficiency, and the like. Just as the global expansion of a single "Terminator" primate species has sparked the Holocene epoch's ecological holocaust, the emer- gence of a global society threatens a host of human institutions. Where a geological clock once marked the entrance and exit of species, an accelerated human stopwatch now tracks the rise and fall of regimes, religions, languages, and civilizations. Time and chance happen to them all.7 The extinction metaphor describes not only a natural world in ecological cataclysm, but also a human society buffeted by changes of unprecedented scope and seemingly relentless acceleration. In this dual sense, globalization is nothing short of the end of the world.8 So apocalyptic an assertion deserves nothing less than the most grandiose of intellectual frameworks. I will examine globalization through a Darwinian lens, in the hope that an application of natural evolution as "universal acid" will "eat[ ] through just about every traditional concept, and leave[ ] in its wake a revolutionized world-view, with most of the old landmarks still recognizable, but transformed in fundamental ways."9 In economic, cultural, and environmental realms, globalization unleashes the same Darwinian dynamics of adaptation, natural selection, and extinction. But the natural world and human society do differ fundamentally. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">For natural species, extinction</span> truly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">is forever. </span>The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">ecosystems they inhabit will not recover</span> in any time frame that humans can meaningfully contemplate. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Human institutions</span>, by contrast, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">are</span> much <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">more readily </span>preserved and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">revived</span>. To the extent that globalized <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">society</span> must choose, it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">should</span> systematically <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">favor the environment over</span> jobs and even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">culture</span>. One final observation bears notice. Received wisdom in American intellectual circles distrusts almost any extension of evolutionary metaphors and analogies outside the strictly bio- economic case for free trade lies beyond reasonable dispute, "so- cial issues" affecting employment and income, community and culture, and health and environment supply the primary - per- haps even exclusive - fault lines for legal debate.16 […] Conscious <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">decisions to allow the extinction of a species or the destruction of an </span>entire <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">ecosystem epitomize the "irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources"</span> that NEPA is designed to retard.312 The original Endangered Species Act gave such decisions no quarter whatsoever;313 since 1979, such decisions have rested in the hands of a solemnly convened "God Squad."314 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In its permanence and gravity, natural extinction provides the baseline by which all other types of extinction should be judged.</span> The Endangered Species Act explicitly acknowledges the "esthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value" of endangered species and the biodiversity they represent.315 Allied bodies of international law confirm this view:316 global biological diversity is part of the commonly owned heritage of all humanity and deserves full legal protection.317 Rather remarkably, these broad assertions understate the value of biodiversity and the urgency of its protection. A Sand County Almanac, the eloquent bible of the modern environmental movement, contains only two demonstrable bio- logical errors. It opens with one and closes with another. We can forgive Aldo Leopold's decision to close with that elegant but erroneous epigram, "ontogeny repeats phylogeny."318 What concerns us is his opening gambit: "There are some who can live without wild things, and some who cannot."319 Not quite. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">None of us can live without wild things. Insects are </span>so <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">essential to life</span> as we know it that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">if they</span> "and other land-dwelling anthropods ... <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">were to disappear, humanity </span>probably<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> could not last more than a few months.</span>"320 "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Most of the amphibians, reptiles</span>, birds, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">mammals</span>," along with "the bulk of the flowering plants <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span> ... the physical structure of most <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">forests</span> and other terrestrial habitats" <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">would disappear</span> in turn.321 "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The land would return to</span>" something resembling its <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cambrian condition</span>, "covered by mats of recumbent wind-pollinated vegetation, sprinkled with clumps of small trees and bushes here and there, largely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">devoid of</span> animal <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">life</span>."322 From this perspective, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the mere thought of valuing biodiversity is absurd</span>, much as any attempt to quantify all of earth's planetary amenities as some trillions of dollars per year is absurd. But the frustration inherent in enforcing the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) has shown that conservation cannot work without appeasing Homo economicus, the profit-seeking ape. Efforts to ban the international ivory trade through CITES have failed to stem the slaughter of African elephants.323 The preservation of biodiversity must therefore begin with a cold, calculating inventory of its benefits. Fortunately, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">defending biodiversity preservation in humanity's self-interest is</span> an <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">easy</span> task. As yet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">unexploited species might give a hungry world a larger larder than the storehouse</span> of twenty plant species <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">that provide nine-tenths of humanity's</span> current <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">food supply</span>.324 "Waiting in the wings are tens of thousands of unused plant species, many demonstrably superior to those in favor."325 As genetic warehouses, many plants enhance the productivity of crops already in use. In the United States alone, the latest phylogeny" means that the life history of any individual organism replays the entire evolutionary history of that organism's species. genes of wild plants have accounted for much of "the explosive growth in farm production since the 1930s."326 The contribution is worth $1 billion each year.327 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Nature's pharmacy demonstrates even more dramatic gains than nature's farm</span>.328 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Aspirin and penicillin</span>, our star analgesic and antibiotic, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">had humble origins</span> in the meadowsweet plant and in cheese mold.329 Leeches, vampire <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">bats, and</span> pit <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">vipers</span> all <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">contribute anticoagulant drugs</span> that reduce blood pressure, pre- vent heart attacks, and facilitate skin transplants.330 Merck & Co., the multinational pharmaceutical company, is helping Costa Rica assay its rich biota.33' A single commercially viable product derived "from, say, any one species among... 12,000 plants and 300,000 insects ... could handsomely repay Merck's entire investment" of $1 million in 1991 dollars.332 Wild animals, plants, and microorganisms also provide ecological services.333 The Supreme Court has lauded the pesticidal talents of migratory birds.334 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Numerous organisms process the air we breathe, the water we drink,</span> the ground we stroll.335 Other species serve as sentries. Just as canaries warned coal miners of lethal gases, the decline or disappearance of indicator species provides advance warning against deeper environmental threats.336 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Species conservation yields the greatest environmental amenity of all: ecosystem protection</span>. Saving discrete species indirectly protects the ecosystems in which they live.337 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Some larger animals may not carry great utilitarian value</span> in themselves, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">but the human urge to protect these</span> charismatic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">"flagship species" helps protect their ecosystems</span>.338 Indeed, to save any species, we must protect their ecosystems.339 Defenders of biodiversity can measure the "tangible economic value" of the pleasure derived from "visiting, photographing, painting, and just looking at wildlife."340 In the United States alone, wildlife observation and feeding in 1991 generated $18.1 billion in consumer spending, $3 billion in tax revenues, and 766,000 jobs.341 Ecotourism gives tropical countries, home to most of the world's species, a valuable alternative to subsistence agriculture. Costa Rican rainforests preserved for ecotourism "have become many times more profitable per hectare than land cleared for pastures and fields," while the endangered gorilla has turned ecotourism into "the third most important source of income in Rwanda."342 In a globalized economy where commodities can be cultivated almost anywhere, environmentally sensitive locales can maximize their wealth by exploiting the "boutique" uses of their natural bounty. The value of endangered species and the biodiversity they embody is "literally . . . incalculable."343 What, if anything, should the law do to preserve it? There are those that invoke the story of Noah's Ark as a moral basis for biodiversity preservation.344 Others regard the entire Judeo-Christian tradition, especially the biblical stories of Creation and the Flood, as the root of the West's deplorable environmental record.345 To avoid getting bogged down in an environmental exegesis of Judeo- Christian "myth and legend," we should let Charles Darwin and evolutionary biology determine the imperatives of our moment in natural "history."346 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The loss of biological diversity is</span> quite arguably <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the gravest problem facing humanity. If we cast the question as the contemporary phenomenon that "our descendants [will] most regret</span>," the "loss of genetic and species diversity by <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the destruction of natural habitats" is worse than even "energy depletion, economic collapse, limited nuclear war, or conquest by a totalitarian government.</span>"347 Natural evolution may in due course renew the earth with a diversity of species approximating that of a world unspoiled by Homo sapiens - in ten million years, perhaps a hundred million.
**__Scenario Two is Warming__**
**Extra-territorial application of US laws is the only way to check international pollution – allows for global efforts to combat warming**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nash, Emory School of Law Professor, 2010</span></span>**<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jonathan Remy, “The Curious Legal Landscape of the Extraterritoriality of U.S. Environmental Laws”, VIRGINIA JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, 50 VIJL 997, May, Volume 50.4, Pg. 997, Accessed 7/27/2010, [[http://www.vjil.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/VJIL-50.4-Nash-Essay.pdf]], SM]</span></span>
In addition, a second factor that may explain the reality of limited environmental extraterritoriality is the potentially massive scope of the extraterritorial application of environmental laws. The possible extraterritorial application of a statute to ensure domestic environmental quality also bolsters the importance of reciprocity, in that such application could involve substantial interference with pollution sources in other jurisdictions. 78 Begin by recalling the observation above that air pollutants can travel long distances—even across continents and oceans—and cause environmental degradation at locations far from where the pollutants originated.79 If protection of domestic environmental quality is the sole criterion for extraterritorial application, U.S. air pollution statutes could have wide application indeed. Consider, moreover, the potential jurisdiction over sources that emit global pollutants, such as carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Because these compounds cause ill effects in the upper reaches of the atmosphere, the geographic location of their emission is irrelevant. A molecule of carbon dioxide emitted in Florida causes the same degradation as a molecule emitted in Germany, China, South Africa, or anywhere else in the world.80 Would protection of U.S. environmental quality against the effects of global warming warrant U.S. assertion of its air pollution laws against sources of greenhouse gases throughout the world? Indeed, even to the extent that the GATT regime requires a “nexus” between a government that enacts an environmentally protective law and the resource to be protected,81 such a nexus would seem always to be met in the context of global pollutants.82 In other words, a “nexus” limitation would be a nullity in the context of regulations aimed at a global pollutant. 
**Applying NEPA solves – sets up a framework for solving warming**
**Pykek 2k8**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[Dr. Christopher R. Pykek, Director of Climate Change Services for CTG, Dr. Kit Batten, Managing Director for Energy and Environmental Policy at the Center for American Progress, “Full Disclosure”, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2008/05/pdf/nepa.pdf]], SM]</span>
Global warming presents a real and present danger to the responsibilities of the government of the United States. One of the first practical steps toward addressing this issue is to recognize that many federal actions influence green­house gas emissions and vulnerability to the effects of global warming. These actions provide opportunities to reduce emissions and prepare for changing climatic condi­tions—provided that decision makers and stakeholders understand the implications of federal actions and are presented with appropriate alternatives and mitigation options. Acting on these opportunities requires a systematic process for assessing climate change risks, disclosing the impact of federal actions, and evaluating alternative actions and potential mitigation measures. The most practical vehicle for such assessments is the National Environmental Policy Act. NEPA provides the authority and processes needed to immediately include consider­ation of the effects of global warming along with other important environmental issues already considered in environmental impact assessments. Consideration of global warming under NEPA will promote fiscal and environmental responsibility, reduce risks to taxpayer investments, avoid costly litigation, and provide the foundation for informed decision making and public dialoge about the implications of federal actions.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The science of warming is undeniable – only our consensus is backed by solid science</span></span>**</span>
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romm 2k10</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph, Editor of 'Climate Progress' and Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, PhD in Physics, thesis on physical oceanography researched at the Scripps Institute, former assistant Secretary of Energy, author of five books on climate, "Disputing the 'consensus' on global warming" <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2010/06/16/scientific-consensus-on-global-warming-climate-science/]]</span>, SM]</span></span>
In fact, science doesn’t work by consensus of opinion. Science is in many respects the exact opposite of decision by consensus. General opinion at one point might have been that the sun goes around the Earth, or that time was an absolute quantity, but scientific theory supported by observations overturned that flawed worldview. One of the most serious results of the overuse of the term “consensus” in the public discussion of global warming is that it creates a simple strategy for doubters to confuse the public, the press and politicians: Simply come up with as long a list as you can of scientists who dispute the theory. After all, such disagreement is prima facie proof that no consensus of opinion exists. So we end up with the absurd but pointless spectacle of the leading denier in the U.S. Senate, James Inhofe, R-Okla., who recently put out <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Minority.Blogs&ContentRecord_id=f80a6386-802a-23ad-40c8-3c63dc2d02cb|a list]]</span> of more than 400 names of supposedly “prominent scientists” who supposedly “recently voiced significant objections to major aspects of the so-called ‘consensus’ on man-made global warming.” As it turned out, the list is both padded and laughable, containing the opinions of TV weathermen, economists, a bunch of non-prominent scientists who aren’t climate experts, and, perhaps surprisingly, even a number of people who actually believe in the consensus. But in any case, nothing could be more irrelevant to climate science than the opinion of people on the list such as Weather Channel founder John Coleman or famed inventor Ray Kurzweil (who actually does “think global warming is real”). Or, for that matter, my opinion — even though I researched a Ph.D. thesis at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography on physical oceanography in the Greenland Sea. What matters is scientific findings — data, not opinions. The IPCC relies on the peer-reviewed scientific literature for its conclusions, which must meet the rigorous requirements of the scientific method and which are inevitably scrutinized by others seeking to disprove that work. That is why I cite and link to as much research as is possible, hundreds of studies in the case of this article. Opinions are irrelevant. A good example of how scientific evidence drives our understanding concerns how we know that humans are the dominant cause of global warming. This is, of course, the deniers’ favorite topic. Since it is increasingly obvious that the climate is changing and the planet is warming, the remaining deniers have coalesced to defend their Alamo — that human emissions aren’t the cause of recent climate change and therefore that reducing those emissions is pointless. Last year, longtime Nation columnist <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.counterpunch.org/cockburn04282007.html|Alexander Cockburn wrote]]</span>, “There is still zero empirical evidence that anthropogenic production of CO2 is making any measurable contribution to the world’s present warming trend. The greenhouse fearmongers rely entirely on unverified, crudely oversimplified computer models to finger mankind’s sinful contribution.” In fact, the evidence is amazingly strong. Moreover, if the relatively complex climate models are oversimplified in any respect, it is by omitting amplifying feedbacks and other factors that suggest human-caused climate change will be worse than is widely realized. The <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://ipcc-wg1.ucar.edu/wg1/Report/AR4WG1_Print_Ch09.pdf|IPCC concluded]]</span> last year: “Greenhouse gas forcing has very likely (>90 percent) caused most of the observed global warming over the last 50 years. This conclusion takes into account … the possibility that the response to solar forcing could be underestimated by climate models.” Scientists have come to understand that “forcings” (natural and human-made) explain most of the changes in our climate and temperature both in recent decades and over the past millions of years. The primary human-made forcings are the heat-trapping greenhouse gases we generate, particularly carbon dioxide from burning coal, oil and natural gas. The natural forcings include fluctuations in the intensity of sunlight (which can increase or decrease warming), and major volcanoes that inject huge volumes of gases and aerosol particles into the stratosphere (which tend to block sunlight and cause cooling)…. Over and over again, scientists have demonstrated that observed changes in the climate in recent decades can only be explained by taking into account the observed combination of human and natural forcings. Natural forcings alone just don’t explain what is happening to this planet. For instance, in April 2005, one of the nation’s top climate scientists, NASA’s James Hansen, led a team of scientists that made “precise measurements of increasing ocean heat content over the past 10 years,” which revealed that the Earth is absorbing far more heat than it is emitting to space, confirming what earlier computer models had shown about warming. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.columbia.edu/%7Ejeh1/imbalance_release.pdf|Hansen called]]</span> this energy imbalance the “smoking gun” of climate change, and said, “There can no longer be genuine doubt that human-made gases are the dominant cause of observed warming.” Another 2005 study, led by the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, compared actual ocean temperature data from the surface down to hundreds of meters (in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans) with climate models and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/abstract/1112418|concluded]]</span>: A warming signal has penetrated into the world’s oceans over the past 40 years. The signal is complex, with a vertical structure that varies widely by ocean; it cannot be explained by natural internal climate variability or solar and volcanic forcing, but is well simulated by two anthropogenically [human-caused] forced climate models. We conclude that it is of human origin, a conclusion robust to observational sampling and model differences. Such studies are also done for many other observations: land-based temperature rise, atmospheric temperature rise, sea level rise, arctic ice melt, inland glacier melt, Greeland and Antarctic ice sheet melt, expansion of the tropics (desertification) and changes in precipitation. Studies compare every testable prediction from climate change theory and models (and suggested by paleoclimate research) to actual observations. How many studies? Well, the IPCC’s definitive treatment of the subject, “Understanding and Attributing Climate Change,” has 11 full pages of references, some 500 peer-reviewed studies. This is not a consensus of opinion. It is what scientific research and actual observations reveal. And the science behind human attribution has gotten much stronger in the past 2 years (see a recent literature review by the Met Office here). That brings us to another problem with the word “consensus.” It can mean “unanimity” or “the judgment arrived at by most of those concerned.” Many, if not most, people hear the second meaning: “consensus” as majority opinion. The scientific consensus most people are familiar with is the IPCC’s “Summary for Policymakers” reports. But those aren’t a majority opinion. Government representatives participate in a line-by-line review and revision of these summaries. So China, Saudi Arabia and that hotbed of denialism — the Bush administration — get to veto anything they don’t like. The deniers call this “politicized science,” suggesting the process turns the IPCC summaries into some sort of unscientific exaggeration. In fact, the reverse is true. The net result is unanimous agreement on a conservative or watered-down document. You could argue that rather than majority rules, this is “minority rules.” Last April, in an article titled “Conservative Climate,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?chanID=sa006&articleID=5B9E73AD-E7F2-99DF-3F71280BCE41ED77&colID=5|Scientific American]]</span> noted that objections by Saudi Arabia and China led the IPCC to remove a sentence stating that the impact of human greenhouse gas emissions on the Earth’s recent warming is five times greater than that of the sun. In fact, lead author Piers Forster of the University of Leeds in England said, “The difference is really a factor of 10.” Then I discuss the evidence we had even back in 2008 that the IPCC was underestimating key climate impacts, a point I update here. The bottom line is that recent observations and research make clear the planet almost certainly faces a greater and more imminent threat than is laid out in the IPCC reports. That’s why climate scientists are so desperate. That’s why they keep begging for immediate action. And that’s why the “consensus on global warming” is a phrase that should be forever retired from the climate debate. 

**Global warming will reach a tipping point within the decade – positive feedbacks would raise sea levels, threaten food security, collapse states, and end civilization.**
**Brown ‘08**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Brown, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]</span>
In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow at Princeton Uni­versity published an article in Science that showed how <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">annual carbon emissions from fossil fuels could be held at 7 billion tons instead of rising to 14 billion tons over the next 50 years</span>, as would occur with business as usual. The goal of Pacala, an ecol­ogist, and Socolow, an engineer, was to prevent atmospheric CO2 concentrations, then near 375 ppm, from rising above 500 ppm. I They described IS ways, all using proven technologies, that by 20S4 could each cut carbon emissions by 1 billion tons per year. Any seven of these options could be used together to pre­vent an increase in carbon emissions through 2054. Pacala and Socolow further theorize that advancing technology would allow for annual carbon emissions to be cut to 2 billion tons by 2104, a level that can be absorbed by natural carbon sinks in land and oceans. The Pacala/Socolow conceptualization has been extraordi­narily useful in helping to think about how to cut carbon emis­sions. During the three years since the article was written, the urgency of acting quickly and on a much larger scale has become obvious. We also need now to go beyond the conceptu­al approach that treats all potential methods of reducing carbon emissions equally and concentrate on those that are most prom­ising. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Researchers</span> such as James Hansen, a leading climate scien­tist at NASA, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">believe that global warming is accelerating and may be approaching a tipping point, a point at which climate change acquires a momentum that makes it irreversible</span>. They think we may have a decade to turn the situation around before this threshold is crossed. I agree.?3 We often hear descriptions of what we need to do in the decades ahead or by 2050 to avoid "dangerous climate change," but we are already facing this. Two thirds of the glaciers that feed the Yellow and Yangtze rivers of China will disappear by 2060 if even the current 7 percent annual rate of melting con­tinues. Glaciologists report that the Gangotri glacier, which supplies 70 percent of the ice melt that feeds the Ganges River during the dry season, could disappear entirely in a matter of decades.74 What could threaten world food security more than the melt­ing of the glaciers that feed the major rivers of Asia during the dry season, the rivers that irrigate the region's rice and wheat fields? In a region with half the world's people, this potential loss of water during the dry season could lead not just to hunger but to starvation on an unimaginable scale. Asian food security would take a second hit because its rice­-growing river deltas and floodplains would be under water. The World Bank tells us that a sea level rise of only 1 meter would inundate half of the riceland in Bangladesh. While a 1-meter rise in sea level will not happen overnight, what is worrisome is that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">if ice melting continues at today's rates, at some point such a rise in sea level will no longer be preventable</span>. The melting that would cause this is not just what may happen if the earth's tem­perature rises further; this is something that is starting to hap­pen right now with the current temperature. As summer neared an end in 2007, reports from Greenland indicated that the flow of glaciers into the sea had accelerated beyond anything glaciologists had thought possible. Huge chunks of ice weighing several billion tons each were breaking off and sliding into the sea, causing minor earthquakes as they did so.!6 With melt-water lubricating the surface between the glaciers and the rocks on which they rested, i<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">ce flows were accelerating, flowing into the ocean at a pace of 2 meters an hour. This accel­erated flow</span>, along with the earthquakes, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">shows the potential for the entire ice sheet to break up and collapse??</span> Beyond what is already happening, the world faces a risk that some of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the feedback mechanisms will begin to kick in</span>, fur­ther accelerating the warming process. Scientists who once thought that the Arctic Ocean could be free of ice during the summer by 2100 now see it occurring by 2030. Even this could turn out to be a conservative estimate.78 This is of particular concern to scientists because of the albedo effect, where the replacement of highly reflective sea ice with darker open water greatly increases heat absorbed from sunlight. This, of course, has the potential to further accelerate the melting of the Greenland ice sheet. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A second feedback loop of concern is the melting of per­mafrost. This would release billions of tons of carbon,</span> some as methane, a potent greenhouse gas with a global warming effect per ton 25 times that of carbon dioxide.79 The risk facing humanity is that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">climate change could spiral out of control and it will no longer be possible to arrest trends such as ice melting and rising sea level. At this point, the future of civilization would be at risk</span>. This combination of melting glaciers, rising seas, and their effects on food security and low-lying coastal cities could over­whelm the capacity of governments to cope. Today it is largely weak states that begin to deteriorate under the pressures of mounting environmental stresses. But the changes just described could overwhelm even the strongest of states. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Civilization itself could begin to unravel</span> under these extreme stresses.

==MBA== 

===Futenma 1AC - MBA - Plan Text=== 
**PLAN - THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD CLOSE MARINE CORPS AIR STATION FUTENMA AND WITHDRAW ITS MARINE PRESENCE FROM OKINAWA.**

===Futenma 1AC - MBA=== 
**Contention One is Lovers in Japan**

**The Futenma controversy makes now the key time to alter our relationship with Japan—how we respond determines whether or not the alliance becomes equal**
**Van Wolferen ‘10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments, including Washington, have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage. Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. People speak automatically about the United States and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the United States. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. 
**The U.S. should start refashioning the alliance by closing Futenma. Allows for Japan to maintain regional stability—The Marines are not needed.**
**Bandow, ’10**
[Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow @ The Cato Institute, Former Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span>] AP
Thus the U.S. reliance on Okinawa. Lieutenant General Keith Stalder, the Marine Corps Pacific commander, said the island deployment is "the perfect model" for the alliance's objectives of "deterring, defending and defeating potential adversaries." For years the most obvious target of the American forces was North Korea, with the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF) expected to reinforce the Republic of Korea in the event of war. Yet the ROK is both financially and manpower rich. More recently some Americans have talked about deploying the MEF to seize Pyongyang's nuclear weapons in the event of a North Korean collapse. Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission. Checking China is next on the potential Okinawa mission list. However, no one expects the United States to launch a ground invasion of the People's Republic of China irrespective of the future course of events. Thus, the MEF wouldn't be very useful in any conflict. In any case, a stronger Japanese military — which already possesses potent capabilities — would be a far better mechanism for encouraging responsible Chinese development. There's also the kitchen sink argument: the Marines are to maintain regional "stability." Pentagon officials draw expanding circles around Okinawa to illustrate potential areas of operation. The mind boggles, however. Should U.S. troops be sent to resolve, say, the long-running Burmese guerrilla war in that nation's east, a flare-up of secessionist sentiment in Indonesia, violent opposition to Fiji's military dictator, or border skirmishes between Cambodia and Thailand? It’s hard to imagine any reason for Washington to jump into any local conflict. America's presumption should be noninvolvement rather than intervention in other nations' wars. Making fewer promises to intervene would allow the United States to reduce the number of military personnel and overseas bases. A good place to start in cutting international installations would be Okinawa. America's post-Cold War dominance is coming to an end. Michael Schuman argued in Time: "Anyone who thinks the balance of power in Asia is not changing — and with it, the strength of the U.S., even among its old allies — hasn't been there lately." Many analysts nevertheless want the United States to attempt to maintain its unnatural dominance. Rather than accommodate a more powerful China, they want America to contain a wealthier and more influential Beijing. Rather than expect its allies to defend themselves and promote regional stability, they want Washington to keep its friends dependent. To coin a phrase, it's time for a change. U.S. intransigence over Okinawa has badly roiled the bilateral relationship. But even a more flexible basing policy would not be enough. Washington is risking the lives and wasting the money of the American people to defend other populous and prosperous states. Washington should close Futenma — as a start to refashioning the alliance with Japan. Rather than a unilateral promise by the United States to defend Japan, the relationship should become one of equals working together on issues of mutual interest. Responsibility for protecting Japan should become that of Japan.
**The plan is a prerequisite to an equal alliance—that’s key to making it politically sustainable**
**Barkdoll ‘06** [Timothy Barkdoll, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” March 15th 2006, USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College]
The security alliance has served as the cornerstone of U.S.-Japan diplomatic relations for over five decades and the strategic location of U.S. forces in Japan is critical to protecting shared economic, diplomatic, and political interests in the Asia-Pacific region. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the United States and Japan to engage in the reconfiguration of the alliance to produce a more robust, flexible, and symmetric bilateral security arrangement that is capable of securing common national interests well into the 21st Century. Recent proposals for alliance transformation, realignment of U.S. forces, and Japanese constitutional revision indicate that the United States and Japan have taken a significant leap towards securing that future. Application of the following recommendations is required to realize the successful transformation of the alliance. Implement SCC-Proposed Transformational Changes The U.S.-Japan security alliance needs to be reconfigured so that the bilateral partners participate in a more symmetric relationship. The end product of the transformation is a fully functioning alliance in which each nation assumes equal roles and balanced distribution of responsibilities in pursuit of shared national strategic interests. As new and complex security threats emerge at an ever increasing rate, the United States, Japan, and the alliance can no 22 longer afford to rely on incremental growth spurred by the latest crisis. The Japanese government currently lacks the policy mechanisms needed to execute timely and effective security cooperation with the U.S. in response to the rapidly evolving threat environment. Wholesale implementation of the proposed transformation, U.S. force structure realignments, and Japanese constitutional revision is critical in determining the future relevance of the alliance. The key to a stronger alliance is the successful execution of the transformation as proposed by the SCC. A successful transformation depends on a more robust Japanese military posture, implementation of flexible Japanese policy mechanisms to facilitate a more reliable security cooperation with the U.S., and an elevated Japanese presence in Asia-Pacific and globally. Required changes to Japan’s military posture and legislative procedures necessitate constitutional revision meeting the approval of Japan’s popular vote. Unfortunately, there is a decreasing tolerance among the Japanese people for the inconveniences associated with U.S. military presence.136 The proposed realignment of U.S. forces in Japan is intended to ease the burden of host nation support on the Japanese public and provide Tokyo the public support platform to seek constitutional revision. Following the October 2005 SCC conference, Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld summarized the U.S. perspective on these issues: Japan has the second largest economy on the face of the Earth. The people of Japan benefit greatly from the international system. Clearly Japan has an interest in the success of the international system. With an interest in the success of that system which benefits the Japanese people, it seems to me it is appropriate for Japan to find ways in the 21st Century that they can contribute to making the system successful 137 Rally Japanese Public Support Rallying Japanese public support for a more capable and proactive SDF, constitutional revision, and continued support for U.S. forces in Japan is critical to the future of the alliance. As the intolerance for inconveniences associated with host nation support has gained significant momentum in the national political arena, it is increasingly difficult for Japanese politicians to convince their constituents that they sacrifice for the benefit of Japan’s national security. 138 Therefore, it is imperative that the bilateral partners continue to work together to educate the Japanese people, especially in the cities and prefectures that host U.S. bases, that there exists an important interdependence between the alliance, the U.S. military presence in Japan, and Japan’s national interests. The message to the Japanese people must emphasize that the proposed changes and military operations are necessary for Japan’s national security and are not being considered to simply acquiesce bilateral security interests of the United States. The 23 perspective of the argument used is critical.139 For its part, as Japan struggles with remnants of its pacifist culture, antimilitarism, and growing public discontent for support of U.S. forces, the United States must respect and formally acknowledge that reexamination of Article 9 and ratification of a new constitution is a domestic issue to be decided exclusively by the people of Japan. Public support is sometimes best obtained when rhetoric is supported by real action. Proposed U.S. force structure realignment should help alleviate some Japanese concerns for noise, pollution, safety, and an expanding U.S. military footprint. However, Okinawa, as it has been since 1995, will continue to be the epicenter of domestic discontent over support provided to U.S. forces. The transfer of 7,000 Marines to Guam, further consolidation of the remaining forces, shared use of U.S. military installations with the SDF, and the return of substantial land tracts to Japanese sovereignty will do little to alleviate Okinawa’s opposition to the proposed Futenma resolution. Since the October 2005 SCC Futenma relocation plan includes the reclamation of a portion of Oura Bay, a contentious issue in the original proposal, tensions will remain high in the Okinawa prefecture. Balancing Okinawan desires with operational capabilities will prove to be a difficult task but one of critical importance considering the deterrence, crisis response, regional stability, and international security provided for by the U.S. forces forward deployed to Okinawa. Conclusion The stability of the Asia-Pacific region is of critical importance to the national interests of both Japan and the United States. This stability is now challenged by new threats associated with North Korea, Taiwan, and China. The U.S.-Japan security alliance has evolved as the cornerstone of regional stability and remains the best mechanism by which the world’s two leading economies can pursue overlapping national interests. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese governments have made remarkable progress toward reconfiguring the alliance. However, the materialization of a New Japan, one that assumes a more prominent role in its self-defense, regional stability, and global influence, along with full implementation of the transformational changes for the alliance, requires mustering popular support for an unprecedented revision of Japan’s constitution and, more specifically, Article 9. The future of the alliance will depend upon the popular vote of the Japanese people reflecting their view of how critical the Japan-U.S. security alliance is to securing Japan’s national interests. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, the Deputy Director General in the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, astutely observed that “[t]he deterrence and capabilities of the 24 alliance are not measured solely by the number of U.S. forces stationed in Japan, but by the combination of political will, local support, and capability of working closely together.”140 Japan and the United States have demonstrated the political will and an unprecedented capability to work closely together. The future strength of the alliance will therefore depend on local Japanese support for the alliance and constitutional revision—with Okinawa presenting the most significant challenge in that pursuit. 

===Futenma 1AC - MBA - Alliance Cooperation=== 

**Scenario 1 is Alliance Cooperation**

**The plan’s creation of an equal alliance is key to making our cooperation sustainable and effective—solves every impact**
**Cronin 09** (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnas.org/node/3614|Patrick M. Cronin]]</span> 11/13/2009, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.feer.com/international-relations/20098/november53/The-Looming-Crisis-in-U.S.-Japan-Relations|The Looming Crisis in U.S.-Japan Relations]]</span>” Far Eastern Economic Review Patrick Cronin is a Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). Previously, he was the Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University. In 2001, he was confirmed by the Senate to the third-ranking position at the U.S. Agency for International Development. Dr. Cronin was an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s Security Studies Program, The Johns Hopkins University’s Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), and the University of Virginia’s Woodrow Wilson Department of Government. He read International Relations at St Antony’s College, University of Oxford, where he received both his M.Phil. and D.Phil. degrees, and graduated with high honors from the University of Florida. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnas.org/node/3736]]</span> )
Equality is a principle for alliance management, not a strategy. President Obama and Prime Minister Hatoyama need to lift the sights of the alliance above the din of the moment, and allow public opinion to reflect on the past decades during which Americans and Japanese have come to enjoy unprecedented prosperity and opportunity. If tomorrow’s alliance is to secure future prosperity, then it will have to be recalibrated, redefining the ends of the alliance, adapting the means of the alliance, and ensuring that the importance of power is not lost in translation. The redefinition of security encompasses the changing security environment, which is increasingly distinguished by its diversity, complexity and danger. Challenges of stabilizing fragile states like Afghanistan, turning back the nuclear ambitions of states like Iran and North Korea, and fashioning effective responses to climate change and pandemic disease will require more comprehensive strategies and more partners. Just as both the United States and Japan have heightened their economic ties to China in recent years, both governments need to be comfortable with a growing partnership with China, whose assistance is badly needed to address these and other complex problems. Adapting alliance modalities will mean eschewing America’s occasional paternalism and Japan’s sometimes reluctance to acknowledge the alliance’s benefits to the Japanese people. Either the alliance benefits both sides or it will cease to benefit either. Messrs. Obama and Hatoyama need to arrest the hemorrhaging over bases and re-impose a stable, clear alliance management process led by the Secretaries of Defense and State working from the same script. Okinawans have paid dearly for Japan’s security, but there is no easy way to locate bases in today’s developed, democratic Japan. Officials have scoured maps for solutions, both as part of the 1996 review process and 2006 base realignment, which settled on transferring Marine helicopters to reclaimed land at Camp Schwab and moving many Marines and their families to Guam. Settling this issue means getting on with closer combined planning and assessment, training and operations. Finally, both Messrs. Obama and Hatoyama need to keep their eye on the ball. Although they rightly place greater emphasis on soft power, seeking to influence others without coercion, neither should lose sight of the fundamental role which hard power plays in the value of the alliance. The risk in Mr. Obama’s strategic reassurance to China is that it may do nothing to slow the modernization of the PLA. The trouble with Hatoyama’s refusal to prize America’s military presence and decision to curtail Japan’s security role in the Indian Ocean is that it appears to dismiss the continuing role of hard power in the world. Japan’s substitution of increased development assistance to Afghanistan and Pakistan ($5 billion and $2 billion, respectively, over the next five years) in a sense seems to set back the alliance clock to the first Gulf War when Japan was reduced to playing the world’s ATM. We have a bit of time. We both have able officials who can guide a strategic dialogue toward a happy conclusion by the September 2010 anniversary of the Mutual Security Treaty. The gathering crisis in the U.S.-Japan alliance is not short-term perturbations flowing naturally from the recent installation of two liberal governments. Rather, the real danger resides in the longer-term political trajectory of two prosperous and secure democracies who may have forgotten how they got here.
**And, independently creating an equal alliance through the plan is key to avoiding the signal of Chinese encirclement while sustaining deterrence—our marine presence signals we are preparing for a land war**
**Mochizuki ‘96**
[Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96 “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]
However, just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away. China, put down by the West for two centuries, is cognizant of its growing strength and intends to be recognized for it. It also has territorial disputes with many neighbors besides Taiwan, and a perception that the United States wants to box it in militarily and politically. Similar conditions -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped produce World War I. Under these circumstances, the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers. Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance. Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review. But there are risks to sticking with the status quo. Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed so starkly on Okinawa last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, has been developing ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen. Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their country, essentially still at Cold War levels, should be reduced. True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too. At this point, reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including a reduction in the number of Marine combat units on Okinawa, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance. The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for. The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea. But all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. As for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States. Other potential disputes with China should not be addressed militarily. We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that the United States has no long-term interest in fighting land wars in Asia. By committing ourselves to what would be primarily a maritime defense strategy, we would deter China from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation. If China some day caused military trouble in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments. But these are matters where hyper-vigilance now is unneeded, and is only likely to make things worse. Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.) Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy, it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action. In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. In the longer term, Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner to the United States. Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war. In these tense times in Asian politics, restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders, but that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region. And, by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer. Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, we should get our post-Cold War Asian security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis. 

**And, a strong partnership with Japan allows for engagement while still maintaining deterrence**
**Konishi & Avery**, Congressional Research Service Analysts, **’09** [Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
Although the U.S.-Japan security partnership grew out of a need to contain the Soviet Union and has endured in large part because of North Korea’s threat, many analysts see countering China as the primary driver of the campaign to enhance cooperation today. The U.S. approach to rising China is often characterized by observers as having two prongs that roughly correspond to the “engagement” and “containment” camps. The “engagement” approach includes the “responsible stakeholder” concept outlined most prominently by former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick, which aims to convince Beijing to contribute peacefully to the international system that has allowed its economic and political rise. The “containment” aspect of U.S. policy seeks to counter a China that could develop in ways inimical to U.S. interests. The U.S.-Japan alliance plays a role in both approaches. In the former, Japan could serve as a model of responsible multilateral engagement as well as a key economic partner for China in the region. In the latter, enhanced joint defense capabilities from neighboring Japan could deter any aggressive behavior by China’s military. U.S. forward deployment in Japan plays a particularly important role in contingency strategies for a conflict with China over Taiwan. 29 
**Absent a shift in posture Conflict is inevitable—encirclement strategies forcing an aggressive China cause mutual miscalculation and tension escalation**
**Hadar ‘96**
[Leon, Adjunct Scholar of the Cato Institute, Jan 26th, “The Sweet-and-Sour Sino-Americana Relationship”, Cato Policy Analysis No. 428 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-248.html]]</span>]
The containment hawks and geoeconomic and geocultural nationalists in Washington and the military hawks and cultural chauvinists in Beijing are a classic case of "rival twins." They accelerate the confrontation between the two nations, as each group feeds into the other's misconceptions. The Chinese follow the debate and policies emanating from Washington and see them as part of a campaign to slow their country's rise to power; the Americans monitor the rhetoric and actions of Beijing and assume that the Chinese leadership is hostile. That creates a trail of misperceptions and a vicious circle of policies and counterpolicies that could threaten at some point to get out of hand and produce a major international crisis. Systemic Factors While misperceptions on both sides of the Pacific can be exacerbated by the way presidential leadership, bureaucratic factors, or domestic politics affects U.S. policy toward China, there is another, possibly more profound and systemic, dimension to the current Sino-American tensions. The end of the Cold War, like any other revolutionary change in the international system, tends to produce new confrontations between various powers that want to dominate or at least influence the new global structure. In many cases, the international competition ushered in by a new era is between rising and hegemonic powers. A rising "have-not" power usually strives to change the status quo, including the rules of the international military and economic game, in a way that will benefit its interests and help it to translate its new economic power into military and diplomatic influence. The hegemonic "have" power wants to preserve the global status quo, thereby maintaining its dominant economic and military position. Sometimes, as in the case of Great Britain and Germany during the early 20th century, the rivalry erupts into a major hegemonic war. Sometimes, as in the rivalry between the United States and Great Britain in the late 1800s and early 1900s, the tension ends in a gradual and peaceful transition of dominant status from the old to the new power. In still other instances, as in the case of the United States, Germany, and Japan in the post-World War II era, it evolves into a peaceful, albeit complex, sharing of economic and military influence.(63) The Chinese leaders and people believe that with the geostrategic and geoeconomic changes taking place in the world, their nation should and could gain its rightful place in the ranks of global great powers. The consensus that unites "moderates" and "radicals," or conservatives and reformists, in Beijing is that, in the aftermath of the Cold War, "the world has moved from a bipolar system to a multi-polar system," according to a Western diplomat in the Chinese capital. "China intends to be a pole or significant actor" in that system. That means "defining its own sphere--and even using confrontation with the U.S. to send a signal to other countries that dealing with Taipei, for example, is courting trouble."(64) The rhetoric of top Clinton administration officials suggests that while the United States is expecting occasional problems with Beijing, Washington is nevertheless willing to peacefully accommodate the rising power of China. "Our policy is engagement, not containment," insists Lord. He adds, however, "We're not naive. We cannot predict what kind of power China will be in the 21st century. God forbid we may have to turn, with others, to a policy of containment. I would hope not. We're trying to prevent that."(65) But history suggests that things rarely remain as simple as Lord's formulation. Maintaining a stable balance of power between an old hegemon and a new competitor is at best difficult, especially if the two powers and the system in which they operate are undergoing dramatic changes. Post-Deng China: Post-Bismarck Germany or Post-1945 Russia? Some analysts, including Nicholas D. Kristof, former Beijing chief of the New York Times, have drawn a historical parallel between the rise of Germany as a world economic and military power at the end of the 19th century and China's rise in the last decade of the 20th century. They suggest that, given the similar authoritarian and insecure nature of the regimes in post-Bismarck Germany the post-Deng China, China could emerge as a leading anti-status quo player, challenging the dominant position of the United States, which like Great Britain in the 19th century occupies the leading economic and military position in the world. "The risk is that Deng's successor will be less talented and more aggressive--a Chinese version of Wilhelm II," writes Kristof. "Such a ruler unfortunately may be tempted to promote Chinese nationalism as a unifying force and ideology, to replace the carcass of communism." For all the differences between China and Wilhelmine Germany, "the latter's experience should remind us of the difficulty that the world has had accommodating newly powerful nations," warns Kristof, recalling that Germany's jockeying for a place in the front rank of nations resulted in World War I.(66) Charles Krauthammer echoes that point, contending that China is "like late 19th-century Germany, a country growing too big and too strong for the continent it finds itself on."(67) Since Krauthammer and other analysts use the term "containment" to describe the policy they urge Washington to adopt toward China, it is the Cold War with the Soviet Union that is apparently seen as the model for the future Sino- American relationship. Strategist Graham Fuller predicts, for example, that China is "predisposed to a role as leader of the dispossessed states" in a new cold war that would pit an American-led West against an anti-status quo Third World bloc.(68) Although Krauthammer admits that China lacks the ideological appeal that the Soviet Union possessed (at least in the early stages of the Cold War), he assumes that, like the confrontation with the Soviet Union but unlike the British-German rivalry, the contest between America and China will remain "cold" and not escalate into a "hot" war. That optimism is crucial. Advocates of containment may be able to persuade a large number of Americans to adopt an anti-China strategy if the model is the tense but manageable Soviet-American rivalry. However, not many Americans are likely to embrace containment if the probable outcome is a bloody rerun of World War I--only this time possibly with nuclear weapons. The Cold War as a Dangerously Misleading Model Trying to use the paradigm of the Soviet-American rivalry to draw historical lessons and policy conclusions for dealing with China, however, is insidiously misleading. Even if one assumes that the Soviet Union did stand formally for the radical revision of the international status quo after the Bolshevik revolution, its conduct in the post-1945 era was less disruptive. It acted more as a "challenger," a global player committed to maintaining many features of the status quo while chafing at an American-dominated system. Moscow did challenge U.S. interests, but for the most part, it did so at the margins. Moreover, by the late 1970s the Soviet Union had become a "declining challenger" whose economic weakness, resulting from disastrous domestic policies and the failure to integrate into the world system, led eventually to its demise.(69) Current U.S. policymakers need to ask themselves whether China is an anti-status quo power, or even a "challenger" trying to harm core U.S. national interests, or a competitive player attempting to join the multipolar system and the global economy--more like post- Gorbachev Russia and less like the post-1917 or even post- 1945 Soviet Union. If China is a competitive player, a containment policy would be not only inappropriate but foolishly provocative. Indeed, if U.S. policymakers attempt to keep China from joining the ranks of the great powers, there is a high probability that Beijing will not become a "challenger" playing according to a set of international rules as the Soviet Union did during the Cold War. Instead, China may turn into an anti-status quo power similar to Germany in the pre-World War I era or, perhaps even more applicable, Japan on the eve of Pearl Harbor. "If you treat China as an enemy, China will become an enemy," warned Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Nye in July 1995.(70) Moreover, whereas the Germany of Kaiser Wilhelm II had strong lines of communication with Britain based on close political, economic, cultural, and even royal ties, China for most Americans, including many foreign policy experts, still remains an enigma, and the American political culture and policymaking process is misunderstood in Beijing. The potential for misconceptions and misperceptions in Sino-American relations, leading eventually to dangerous diplomatic and military crises that could be mismanaged, is significantly greater than that which existed in the pre-1914 German- British rivalry or even in the Soviet-American Cold War. The Last Pacific War--And the Next One? The historical analogy that may be most relevant to the long-term problems that American leaders face in dealing with China is the deterioration in Japanese-American relations in the 1930s. As journalist Jonathan Marshall says in a new study on the origins of the Pacific War, the conflict resulted in large part from the demand by the "have-not" power, Japan, to be recognized as the leading economic and military power in the Pacific and resistance by the principal status quo power, the United States (and its ally, Great Britain) to that demand. It was Japan's refusal to permit the United States and Britain to continue exercising total control over the mineral resources (including such industrial materials as rubber and tin) of Southeast Asia that was seen in Washington and London as a threat to the existing balance of power and was the main factor in the U.S. decision (which was made before Pearl Harbor) to go to war against Japan if Japanese expansionism continued. "The war was about much more than resources, of course," admits Marshall. The fact that the "have" nations represented a generally liberal order and Japan presented a militarist or totalitarian challenge gave the conflict "a deeply ideological cast." And such factors as cultural misconceptions and the personality traits of leaders also influenced the events leading to Pearl Harbor. But along with the contest of political philosophies and policy miscalculations was "a baser clash of power and interests, a struggle for economic hegemony over vast stretches of the world."(71) The violent struggle between "have" and "have-not" powers, between the United States and Japan and between Great Britain and Germany, was not inevitable. The way countries define their national interests affects the foreign policy process more than anything else. What is seen in retrospect as a tragedy, attributed to misunderstandings on all sides, a "March of Folly" to use Barbara Tuchman's term, was really the product of decisions and judgments motivated by self-interest and made by politicians, officials, lawmakers, experts, and journalists. The general public in Britain and the United States never fully comprehended that "national interest," as it was defined by the makers of foreign policy in Washington in the 1930s and in London in the first years of the 20th century, was based on the need to resist demands for changes in the international system--if need be by military force. Today, in the era of CNN-based public diplomacy, the American people have a better opportunity to determine the way the post-Cold War national interest in general and with regard to China in particular is defined. Like Americans who fought in World War II or the British who suffered the horrible consequences of the Great War, they will have to pay the high costs of policies for containing China, which are now being sketched in Washington. Conclusion: Living in Interesting, but Not Costly, Times China's emergence as a world power and its complex relationship with the United States are seen now by most Americans as quite relevant to the U.S. national interest. According to one recent study measuring public interest in international issues, in the last four years the number of people who believe that China is important to the vital interests of the United States has increased more than the number who believe any other country is important. Both opinion leaders and the general public believe that China's influence will grow dramatically over the next 10 years. More than half of the public and slightly less than half of the leaders believe that the emergence of China as a world power might be a "critical" threat to vital U.S. interests in the next decade. Heightened concern about China is further reflected by the fact that two-thirds of the public and more than four-fifths of the leaders believe that the United States should be spying on the Chinese government.(72) Unfortunately, despite heightened public interest in China, the fact that the two military and economic giants of the Pacific have been drifting apart has not received the attention it deserves in Washington, where the foreign policy debate has continued to be dominated by the civil war in Bosnia. Contributing to the lack of any comprehensive discussion of the Sino-American relationship has been the haphazard and crisis-oriented media coverage of the China story and the preoccupation with Beijing's human rights conduct. Consequently, most Americans are probably not aware of the potentially very high stakes involved in the Sino-American relationship. Indeed, the prospect the United States might find itself drawn into a costly diplomatic and military conflict with China over the future of several tiny islands in the South China Sea or an escalation in tensions between Taipei and Beijing has not been considered by most Americans--who in all probability are not sure of the spelling of Spratly and are certainly not familiar with the distinctions between "Chinese" and "Taiwanese" nationalism. Yet China and the United States could drift toward a costly armed conflict if the containment strategy advocated by many first-term Republican members of Conress is adopted. Those Republicans propose a policy that is out of line with the aspirations of the American people and raises questions about the Republicans' commitment to the "populist" agenda they propagate. Indeed, a recent poll indicates that 71 percent of Americans do not think that the United States should defend Taiwan if China launches a military invasion.(73) 
**War involving China and the US is uniquely likely to go global nuclear**
**Dodge ‘05**
[Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies—Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]
In the summer of 2005, Chinese Major-General Zhu Chenghu threatened the United States with nuclear attack, stating that, “If the Americans draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, the PRC realizes that it must be able to deter U.S. military intervention. The idea is to convince the United States and the world that China is both capable and, more importantly, willing to inflict grievous casualties on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. Efforts toward this end have been manifested over recent years in the form of greatly increased military spending, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical nuclear weapons, and the formation of a naval warfighting strategy that emphasizes asymmetric attacks on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation. Put simply, this piece argues that China’s warfighting doctrine is misguided, unrealistic, and dangerous. It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because it makes nuclear war with the United States far more likely. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, China’s acquisition of advanced foreign weaponry, its expectation that the United States will back down at the first hint of casualties, and its belief that nuclear weapons can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, China may act on its irredentist policies when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition. Finally, the loss of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, will cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, leaving only nuclear options. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of inadvertent escalation. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas are greatly germane to any future Sino-U.S. conflict. It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. 
**Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation—countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation**
**Straits Times 2K**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. 
**And an equal alliance from the plan is key to effective regional cooperation - that stops multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
Asia, in the throes of historic change, should carry major weight in the calculus of American political, security, economic, and other interests. Accounting for 53 percent of the world's population, 25 percent of the global economy, and nearly $600 billion annually in two-way trade with the United States, Asia is vital to American prosperity. Politically, from Japan and Australia, to the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, and Indonesia, countries across the region are demonstrating the universal appeal of democratic values. China is facing momentous social and economic changes, the consequences of which are not yet clear. Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia. The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region made facto security architecture. In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world second-largest economy and a well-equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.- Japan alliance is central to America global security strategy. Japan, too, is experiencing an important transition. Driven in large part by the forces of globalization, Japan is in the midst of its greatest social and economic transformation since the end of World War II. Japanese society, economy, national identity, and international role are undergoing change that is potentially as fundamental as that Japan experienced during the Meiji Restoration. The effects of this transformation are yet to be fully understood. Just as Western countries dramatically underestimated the potential of the modern nation that emerged from the Meiji Restoration, many are ignoring a similar transition the effects of which, while not immediately apparent, could be no less profound. For the United States, the key to sustaining and enhancing the alliance in the 21st century lies in reshaping our bilateral relationship in a way that anticipates the consequences of changes now underway in Japan. Since the end of World War II, Japan has played a positive role in Asia. As a mature democracy with an educated and active electorate, Japan has demonstrated that changes in government can occur peacefully. Tokyo has helped to foster regional stability and build confidence through its proactive diplomacy and economic involvement throughout the region. Japan's participation in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Cambodia in the early 1990s, its various defense exchanges and security dialogues, and its participation in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Regional Forum and the new plus Three grouping are further testimony to Tokyo's increasing activism. Most significantly, Japan's alliance with the United States has served as the foundation for regional order. We have considered six key elements of the U.S.-Japan relationship and put forth a bipartisan action agenda aimed at creating an enduring alliance foundation for the 21st century. Post-Cold War Drift As partners in the broad Western alliance, the United States and Japan worked together to win the Cold War and helped to usher in a new era of democracy and economic opportunity in Asia. In the aftermath of our shared victory, however, the course of U.S.-Japan relations has wandered, losing its focus and coherence- -notwithstanding the real threats and potential risks facing both partners. Once freed from the strategic constraints of containing the Soviet Union, both Washington and Tokyo ignored the real, practical, and pressing needs of the bilateral alliance. Well-intentioned efforts to find substitutes for concrete collaboration and clear goal-setting have produced a diffuse dialogue but no clear definition of a common purpose. Efforts to experiment with new concepts of international security have proceeded fitfully, but without discernable results in redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties. This lack of focus and follow-through has been evident in both countries. Some in Japan have been drawn to the notion of Asianization and the hope that economic interdependence and multilateral institutions would put the region on a path similar to that of Europe. Many in the United States regarded the end of the Cold War as an opportunity to return to economic priorities. The early 1990s was a period of heightened bilateral tensions, primarily over the question of access to Japanese markets. Some Americans saw economic competition from Japan as a threat. In the past five years, however, trade tensions have diminished. Envy and concern over Japanese economic prowess have turned to dismay over the Japanese recession and building financial crisis. Neither country dealt with the need to redefine and reinvigorate the alliance. In fact, both took it for granted. The drift in the alliance was obvious until the mid-1990s when the crisis on the Korean peninsula-- punctuated by the horror of the Okinawa rape incident--captured the attention of policymakers in Washington and Tokyo. These episodes prompted them to recognize belatedly the costs of neglecting the bilateral relationship. The subsequent Taiwan Strait confrontation in March 1996 gave even more impetus to efforts on both sides of the Pacific to reaffirm the bilateral security alliance. The 1996 U.S.-Japan Joint Security Declaration went a long way toward directing attention in both capitals toward the need to refurbish the alliance, and led to concrete changes that updated defense ties in the form of the revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the 1996 report of the Special Action Committee on Okinawa, and the bilateral agreement to cooperate in theater missile defense research. But the symbolism of the 1996 declaration stood alone, unsupported by sustained high-level attention. As a result, the United States and Japan soon returned to bickering and poor policy coordination. The costs of the deterioration in the U.S.-Japan relationship have been insidious as well as obvious. By the end of the 1990s, many U.S. policymakers had lost interest in a Japan that appeared incapable of renewing itself. Indeed, Japan's prolonged recession has discouraged or dispirited even some Japanese officials. In Tokyo, many see Washington as arrogant and unable to recognize that its prescriptions are not universally applicable to others' economic, political, and social needs. A number of government officials and opinion-makers perceived the U.S. approach as a self serving rationale for commercial and economic interests and grew resentful of a United States seemingly preoccupied with its own self-centered version of globalization. It has been obvious that U.S. attention and interests have turned elsewhere in Asia. More recently, the principal focus of American policymakers has been the bilateral relationship with China--a relationship characterized by a series of crises ever since the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy demonstrations. Neither Washington nor Tokyo followed through aggressively on the security agenda set forth in the 1996 declaration, in large measure because of concerns over Beijing's hostile reaction to the reinvigoration of the security partnership. Beijing let it be known in no uncertain terms that it regarded the U.S.-Japan partnership as an important element of a broader effort by Washington to constrain its regional diplomacy. And as the United States and-- to a lesser extent--Japan sought to improve relations with China, both demonstrated a clear desire to downplay the notion of a containment strategy. In fact, the only active security dialogue between the United States and Japan has been a byproduct of a desire to coax North Korea out of its self-imposed isolation. The United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea all concur that close cooperation and unity of purpose offer the most effective strategy to deal with Pyongyang. This record of diffidence, uncertainty, and indirection has no single father, nor does it support an oversimplified laying of blame. Rather, it demands a recognition that the time has arrived for renewed attention to improving, reinvigorating, and refocusing the U.S.-Japan alliance. Both the United States and Japan face an uncertain security environment in Asia at a time of political transition and important change in both countries--for the United States, a new national leadership, and for Japan, a continuing process of economic, political, and social transformation. At the same time, political and economic uncertainties in China and Russia, the fragile nature of detente on the Korean peninsula, and the prospect of protracted instability in Indonesia--all pose shared challenges. For those who argue that Japan is a pasting asset in irreversible decline, it might be useful to recall that it has been only a decade since it was taken as an article of faith that American power was ebbing on the international scene. It would be foolhardy to underestimate the enduring dimensions of Japanese power, much as it was unwise for some Japanese to dismiss the latent and enduring qualities of American power in the 1980s and 1990s. Politics Over the past decade, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), faced with internal divisions, a clash of traditional interest group agendas, and a growing split among key constituencies, has focused primarily on hanging on to its dwindling power. At the same time, the political opposition has failed to produce credible, well-conceived policy proposals. The net effect is an LDP struggling to maintain its grip on the reins of government, an opposition unable to provide a governing alternative, and a Japanese public, faced with a lack of credible alternative leadership, reluctantly returning the LDP to office. The result has been a government stuck in neutral, incapable of more than muddling through. Nevertheless, the necessity of economic reform and restructuring, driven by the pressures of a relentless globalization of the international economy, are likely to lead to political change. These economic forces are breaking apart the monopoly power of the so-called Iron Triangle--the heretofore collusive relationships among politicians, business, and the bureaucracies-- and making power more diffuse. The Japanese political order is experiencing protracted change. Political changes in Japan could lead to unprecedented opportunities to reinvigorate the U.S.-Japan relationship--as well as test it further. The end of bipolar ideological confrontation in Japanese politics and the emergence of a new pragmatism about security affairs among a younger generation of elected officials provide fertile soil for creative new approaches to leadership. It would be unrealistic to expect the current leadership suddenly to embrace reform or to assume a higher profile on the global stage. The demands of Japan's parliamentary system make it difficult to implement policies, that require short-term pain in exchange for long-term gain. The political system is risk-averse. But the successor generations of politicians and the public at- large also recognize that economic power alone will no longer be enough to secure Japan's future. Moreover, the Japanese public, by giving official standing to the national flag and anthem, and in focusing on such territorial claims as the Senkaku islands, has evidenced a new respect for the sovereignty and integrity of the nation state. The implications for the U.S.-Japan relationship stemming from these changes are profound. A similar process is at work in the United States. The growing role of Congress as a force in foreign policy, the rising influence of state and local governments, and the dramatic transformation of the private sector as the initiator of economic change--driven by technology and the empowerment of the individual--are altering the influence of once-central foreign policymaking institutions. But, just as Japan's risk-averse political leadership has held back the nation's economic transformation, the lack of clear direction from Washington also has taken a toll. Episodic executive branch leadership has failed to produce a well-conceived game plan for America's relationship with Japan. This, in turn, has accelerated the erosion of political support and popular understanding of the importance of the alliance. In short, the political, economic, and social changes underway in the United States put an even greater premium on executive branch leadership in foreign affairs. If the United States can exercise leadership--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations with Japan, the two countries will be better able to realize the full potential for cooperation nurtured during the past 50 years. If the changes underway in Japan ultimately produce a stronger, more responsive political and economic system, the synergy in U.S.- Japan relations will enhance our abilities to play an engaged, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role in regional and global arenas in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship.

===Futenma 1AC - MBA - Japan Power=== 

**__Scenario 2 is Japan Power__**

**The plan is key to a more assertive Japanese foreign policy—the formation of an equal alliance allows Japan to form dialogue with regional powers and have an independent role in the region**
**Ikenberry & Kupchan ’10** [G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, U.S. officials have reacted with considerable discomfort to the more independent and assertive policies of the new Japanese government. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo in November that the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg last week welcomed the "expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. On the contrary, it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo, not Washington. Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war in 2003, and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the United States enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the United States, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. 
**Material power of hegemony is inevitable by all accounts and small declines won’t change that—however, relative rise of the rest means we are losing influence making heg ineffective—we must focus on sharing power and creating alliances**
**Nye, ’10** [Joseph S. Nye, Jr., University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University, “The Future of American Power,” Foreign Affairs, November/December 2010, Volume 89, Issue 6] AP
Any net assessment of American power in the coming decades will remain uncertain, but analysis is not helped by misleading metaphors of decline. Declinists should be chastened by remembering how wildly exaggerated U.S. estimates of Soviet power in the 1970s and of Japanese power in the 1980s were. Equally misguided were those prophets of unipolarity who argued a decade ago that the United States was so powerful that it could do as it wished and others had no choice but to follow. Today, some confidently predict that the twenty-first century will see China replace the United States as the world's leading state, whereas others argue with equal confidence that the twenty-first century will be the American century. But unforeseen events often confound such projections. There is always a range of possible futures, not one. As for the United States' power relative to China's, much will depend on the uncertainties of future political change in China. Barring any political upheaval, China's size and high rate of economic growth will almost certainly increase its relative strength vis-à-vis the United States. This will bring China closer to the United States in power resources, but it does not necessarily mean that China will surpass the United States as the most powerful country--even if China suffers no major domestic political setbacks. Projections based on GDP growth alone are one-dimensional. They ignore U.S. advantages in military and soft power, as well as China's geopolitical disadvantages in the Asian balance of power. Among the range of possible futures, the more likely are those in which China gives the United States a run for its money but does not surpass it in overall power in the first half of this century. Looking back at history, the British strategist Lawrence Freedman has noted that the United States has "two features which distinguish it from the dominant great powers of the past: American power is based on alliances rather than colonies and is associated with an ideology that is flexible. . . .Together they provide a core of relationships and values to which America can return even after it has overextended itself." And looking to the future, the scholar Anne-Marie Slaughter has argued that the United States' culture of openness and innovation will keep it central in a world where networks supplement, if not fully replace, hierarchical power. The United States is well placed to benefit from such networks and alliances, if it follows smart strategies. Given Japanese concerns about the rise of Chinese power, Japan is more likely to seek U.S. support to preserve its independence than ally with China. This enhances the United States' position. Unless Americans act foolishly with regard to Japan, an allied East Asia is not a plausible candidate to displace the United States. It matters that the two entities in the world with per capita incomes and sophisticated economies similar to those of the United States--the European Union and Japan--both are U.S. allies. In traditional realist terms of balances of power resources, that makes a large difference for the net position of U.S. power. And in a more positive-sum view of power--that of holding power with, rather than over, other countries--Europe and Japan provide the largest pools of resources for dealing with common transnational problems. Although their interests are not identical to those of the United States, they share overlapping social and governmental networks with it that provide opportunities for cooperation. On the question of absolute, rather than relative, American decline, the United States faces serious problems in areas such as debt, secondary education, and political gridlock. But they are only part of the picture. Of the multiple possible futures, stronger cases can be made for the positive ones than the negative ones.But among the negative futures, the most plausible is one in which the United States overreacts to terrorist attacks by turning inward and thus cuts itself off from the strength it obtains from openness. Barring such mistaken strategies, however, there are solutions to the major American problems of today. (Long-term debt, for example, could be solved by putting in place, after the economy recovers, spending cuts and consumption taxes that could pay for entitlements.) Of course, such solutions may forever remain out of reach. But it is important to distinguish hopeless situations for which there are no solutions from those that could in principle be solved. After all, the bipartisan reforms of the Progressive era a century ago rejuvenated a badly troubled country. It is time for a new narrative about the future of U.S. power. Describing power transition in the twenty-first century as a traditional case of hegemonic decline is inaccurate, and it can lead to dangerous policy implications if it encourages China to engage in adventurous policies or the United States to overreact out of fear. The United States is not in absolute decline, and in relative terms, there is a reasonable probability that it will remain more powerful than any single state in the coming decades. At the same time, the country will certainly face a rise in the power resources of many others--both states and nonstate actors. Because globalization will spread technological capabilities and information technology will allow more people to communicate, U.S. culture and the U.S. economy will become less globally dominant than they were at the start of this century. Yet it is unlikely that the United States will decay like ancient Rome, or even that it will be surpassed by another state, including China. The problem of American power in the twenty-first century, then, is not one of decline but what to do in light, of the realization that even the largest country cannot achieve the outcomes it wants without the help of others. An increasing number of challenges will require the United States to exercise power with others as much as power over others. This, in turn, will require a deeper understanding of power, how it is changing, and how to construct "smart power" strategies that combine hard- and soft-power resources in an information age. The country's capacity to maintain alliances and create networks will be an important dimension of its hard and soft power. Power is not good or bad per se. It is like calories in a diet: more is not always better. If a country has too few power resources, it is less likely to obtain its preferred outcomes. But too much power (in terms of resources) has often proved to be a curse when it leads to overconfidence and inappropriate strategies. David slew Goliath because Goliath's superior power resources led him to pursue an inferior strategy, which in turn led to his defeat and death. A smart-power narrative for the twenty-first century is not about maximizing power or preserving hegemony. It is about finding ways to combine resources in successful strategies in the new context of power diffusion and "the rise of the rest." As the largest power, the United States will remain important in global affairs, but the twentieth-century narrative about an American century and American primacy--as well as narratives of American decline--is misleading when it is used as a guide to the type of strategy that will be necessary in the twenty-first century. The coming decades are not likely to see a post-American world, but the United States will need a smart strategy that combines hard- and soft-power resources--and that emphasizes alliances and networks that are responsive to the new context of a global information age. 
**This is uniquely true in East Asia—Despite the US lead, relative rise of the rest and declining influence means a strategy of unilateralism is unsustainable —multiple factors—makes now key to transition to regional burden sharing**
**Tanaka, ’10** [October 2k10, Hitoshi Tanaka, Senior Fellow, JCIE “Keeping the United States Engaged in Asia” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/EAI/5-4.pdf]]</span>, SM]
The changing balance of power in East Asia from Cold War bipolarity to post–Cold War unipolarity to a new power configuration tilting toward multipolarity—has prompted debate on the future of US engagement in Asia. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the global financial crisis have called into question the limitations of US power. Furthermore, the rise of China has hastened a relative decline in US power in East Asia, allowing China to grow in confidence and accelerating perceptions of China as a great power in the region. This has triggered anxiety among some US allies and friends and requires careful management to preserve the stability of the region. China has achieved phenomenal and rapid economic growth since coming out of isolation and engaging with the world economy, and it continues to grow. In contrast, the economic situation in the United States and the other advanced industrialized economies has taken a hit from the global financial crisis. The United States is still suffering from weak economic growth rates and unemployment and faces many challenges in its path to recovery. In terms of per capita income, China still has a long way to go to achieve the sort of wealth enjoyed by the United States or Japan. The undervalued exchange rate; widening income disparity between developed coastal and underdeveloped rural regions; and agricultural, energy, and environmental problems all pose serious challenges that require serious policy consideration. Nevertheless, China has emerged from the financial crisis in a stronger position while most of the countries of the West find themselves weakened. China has started to outline a response to global imbalances, engineering a massive stimulus package to foster the expansion of domestic demand. To some extent, the Chinese economy is now beginning to shift from export- led to domestic expansion–led economic growth. Further, China has managed to maintain impressive economic growth over the past two years. Last month, GDP data confirmed what economic analysts have long and widely been predicting, that China has overtaken Japan as the world’s second largest economy. As a result of the damage the financial crisis has inflicted upon the developed economies and the manner in which China has been able to sustain its economic growth despite the crisis, a growth gap has emerged between China on the one hand and the United States, Japan, and most other developed economies on the other. Economic forecasts predict that this growth gap is likely only to widen in the future. Another significant indicator of the relative decline in US power is the relative decline of the importance of the United States as a trading partner for East Asia. For instance, the United States had long been Japan’s number one trading partner; however, this title has clearly shifted to China. For other nations in East Asia as well, such as South Korea and the members of ASEAN, China has become the largest trading partner. This is not to argue that the United States is not still a highly important trading partner for East Asia. However, given the increase in East Asian intraregional trade, the United States has lost ground in relative terms. Rising anxiety and regional security From a security viewpoint, the United States maintains an overwhelming military force that is second to none in terms of size and capability. However, with its rapid economic growth, China has been able to steadily increase its own military capabilities. The Peoples Liberation Army, once considered a primarily landbased military, has steadily expanded its naval capabilities. More recently, with growing confidence, China has defined the South China Sea as a “core national interest” and has undertaken more visible activities in the South and East China Seas. The recent Senkaku Islands incident between Japan and China demonstrates once again China’s rigid manner of conduct, imposing a wide range of swift unilateral measures without attempting adequate communication with Japan. This issue, and Japan-China relations more broadly, requires careful analysis and will be examined in the next issue of East Asia Insights. Meanwhile, the United States has indeed been forced to re-examine its global military strategy amidst doubts that it can continue overstretching its military commitments around the globe, simultaneously fighting multiple wars. With tensions rising in the Greater Middle East, especially regarding allegations of nuclear weapons production in Iran, analysts predict that the United States will not be able to commit sufficient capabilities to other areas. At the same time, there has been a decline of the United States as a role model. The lack of justification for the war in Iraq—based on inaccurate intelligence— and US torture of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib undermine the legitimacy of US claims to moral authority. President Obama has emphasized multilateral diplomacy, seeking to rebuild US legitimacy damaged by overzealous unilateralism. But, as a result of this shift, we can no longer expect any new determined military interventions on the part of the United States, irrespective of their legitimacy. While many in the international community welcome a less militaristic, less unilateral United States, this change means that US partners must now take on a greater share of the security burden. Without active regional cooperation between the United States and its allies, there is a danger that the limits of regional security will be tested. For instance, North Korea may calculate that the US shift away from unilateralism toward multilateral diplomacy will reduce the likelihood of military action, giving it new confidence in negotiations.
**A stronger Japan is key to fill in and create a stable structure—a more independent Japan through a restructured alliance solves Korean Conflict, territorial disputes—allows for the effective creation of multilateral structures—solves every impact**
**Funabshi, ’10** [10/1/10, Yoichi Funabashi, “Will Japan Step Up to the Plate?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/10/01/will_japan_step_up_to_the_plate_99210.html]]</span>, SM]
We are witnessing a "brave, grave new world" - with the rise and fall of nations underway on a grand scale. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/china/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|China]]</span>'s rise and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/india/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|India]]</span>'s advance are two of the most spectacular dynamics. The power shift to the Asia Pacific, however, will be a long transition, and Asia faces three major challenges over the next decade: first, the instability of the North Korean regime in the process of leadership succession and the eventual unification of the Korean peninsula; secondly, maritime security in the South China Sea, the Yellow Sea and the East China Sea; and third, Bottom of Form The US will remain a superpower, but it will also become less stable as a "new world" emerges. This new world will be characterized by multipolarism without multilateralism - power will be dispersed and centered in local clusters all over the world, but with a less unified front and less effective global governance. Asia is not alone, and a fundamental question for the world is how to manage restructuring for this emerging multipolar world. Instability of the Korean peninsula is likely to bring the most problems in the next three to five years. Against the backdrop of a delicate leadership succession, economic crisis and further hardship unfold for North Korean citizens. The situation is unsustainable, and likely the regime will collapse. If <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/north_korea/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|North Korea]]</span> does implode, there could be far-reaching ramifications for the stability of the region. So the vision of a unified Korea is a priority. At the same time, Asia must devise a maritime security strategy. Seafaring regions stand as the Asia's global face. Yet maritime issues are also a source of much tension. The US has so far provided maritime stability for the Asia Pacific, but is increasingly challenged by China. India is also increasingly ambitious. Maritime issues could reach a peak within five to seven years. The South China Sea could prove to be extremely divisive, as China increasingly perceives the area as its own and denies rival claims to several chains of islands, including the Spratlys. Some Chinese reportedly call the sea their "core interest," provoking controversy in other Asian nations. Of course, China is not solely responsible for the dispute in the South China Sea. However, it is notable that at a recent ASEAN regional forum in Hanoi, 12 nations expressed unease about China's activities in the South China Sea. Mishandling of East China's maritime security issue - by any player - could be a game changer for East Asian geopolitics. This will be the first critical test for China's much-heralded "peaceful rise" doctrine, and the country could quickly lose the respect gained over the past 30 years, particularly through its handling of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Some Chinese vehemently criticize use of the Yellow Sea for US aircraft exercises, accusing the US of bullying tactics. China interprets US naval activity in the region as a form of "hegemonic bullying," according to General Luo Yuan in the People's Daily newspaper on August 14. Luo warned that China would not be fearful if other countries ignored China's "core interests," which suggest the waters surrounding China. More worryingly, the general implied that China considers the Yellow Sea part of its "offshore area" - an absurdity as it would mean that even Incheon is part of China's "offshore territories." Finally, energy and the environment are joint issues coming to a head in about seven to ten years. Energy usage is rapidly rising. Every country in Asia depends on oil imports. Desperately trying to catch up with developed economies, developing and emerging countries care little about environmental degradation and lack the requisite safeguards to prevent it. The recent flooding in <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/pakistan/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|Pakistan]]</span> is a sharp reminder of how Asia remains at mercy to nature. Almost all of Asia's major rivers - the Yangtze, the Yellow, the Indus, the Ganges and the Mekong included - begin in the Tibetan plateau. The melting of the Himalayan glaciers, recognized as partly responsible for the current floods, will wreak catastrophic consequences across the entire continent if it continues at the present rate. China, India and Pakistan have the first, second and sixth largest populations in the world, respectively. And all are heavily dependent on the Himalayan glaciers for their water supply and livelihoods. Water security could become Asia's Achilles heel. Amid these new dynamics and challenges, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/japan/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|Japan]]</span> has a role as stabilizer. Japan acts both as a stabilizer in its own right, as well as partner in the framework of the US-Japan alliance. During the debacle that was the 10 short months that Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama was in power, many Asian nations expressed concern over the deterioration of the US-Japanese security ties. This revealed how Asian countries increasingly regard the alliance as an essential part of the "common goods." Maintaining the solid deterrence factor of the US-Japan alliance vis-à-vis North Korea is even more critical as the latter displays increasing instability. That contribution should be appreciated throughout the region, not least by the Japanese themselves. Japan must explore the modus vivendi of strengthening its relationship with Asia in tandem with deepening its security tie with the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/united_states/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|United States]]</span>. Pursuing trilateral dialogue of the US-Japanese alliance with a third partner - such as China, India, Korea, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/australia/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|Australia]]</span> or <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://realclearworld.com/topic/around_the_world/indonesia/?utm_source=rcw&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=rcwautolink|Indonesia]]</span> - would be useful. This would answer both the critical need to strengthen the alliance on one hand and enhance regional Asian frameworks on the other. If the two Koreas were to unify in the future, this would give Japan an opportunity to forge a new strategic relationship and improve stability in North East Asia. Trilateral cooperation between the US, ROK and Japan and between China, ROK and Japan is crucial for stability. Six-party talks or five-party talks in the future will also be useful. A new framework to form a stable and democratic world within Korea could deliver a new era of peace and security in the region. Japan also has a significant role in the non-military field, and the alliance with the US should be managed according to the principle of complementarities - bringing together the strengths of each nation, both military and non-military, to achieve maximum effectiveness. This principle has become relevant as the nature of threats have changed. In the Cold War era, the US and Japan focused on the single threat of the Soviet Union. In contrast, the US, Japan and others throughout Asia face multiple, diverse threats, from large-scale natural disasters and climate change to failed states and nuclear proliferation. Military power alone is simply not enough to deal with these threats. The root cause of threats such as terrorism must be ascertained and targeted, which requires the mobilization of economic and social forces. For example, Japan's strength is civilian power, while the might of the United States lies in its military prowess. Japan can take a lead in many areas, including humanitarian and disaster-relief assistance; peace-building and peacekeeping; economic development for nation-building; nuclear nonproliferation and nuclear disarmament; a departure from petroleum dependence; and global environment protection with an eye toward creating a low-carbon society. Given the sensitive historical issues, Japan's role as a global civilian power would be more acceptable to other Asian countries and would also be conducive for strengthening the US-Japanese alliance.
**Japan is the key player in the formation of multilateral structures—a more assertive Japanese foreign policy brings regional powers on board**
**Sukma ’10** [Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have further undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation. It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community.
**Regional Cooperation solves East Asian nuclear war**
**Swanstrom, ’05**
[Niklas, Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Dr. Swanström's specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isdp.eu/images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf]]</span>] AP
After the end of the Cold War, states, regional and international organizations have also adopted a more diversified view on security that also encompasses humanitarian, environmental and economic issues. This move away from the traditional concepts of security is positive, especially since the nature of conflict also has changed. According to estimates made by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), deaths related to interstate conflicts dropped by two thirds—from 660,000 in the 1980s to 220,000 in the 1990s. This can be contrasted to the 3.6 million people who were killed as a result of internal conflicts in the 1990s. 5 Moreover, this is not taking into consideration the societal and humanitarian disasters, like poverty, diseases and environmental degradation, that follow, especially, intrastate conflicts. The combination of old and new security threats has increased the need and potential for conflict prevention, and it has become necessary to expand the focus to include, among other things, the prevention of social, environmental and economic degradation. Today, it is therefore vital to deal with more complex conflict patters and move away from the single-minded focus on military threats. Military threats are no longer the sole security threats and the focus has moved beyond the interstate level to encompass individuals, sub-national and regional entities. 6 This has led to a realization that the costs of inaction, or late action, can be tremendous since military conflicts, in combination with the new security threats, tend to be more devastating both in terms of human suffering and economic losses. 7 In addition, in contemporary military conflicts, there is always at least a potential risk that nuclear weapons will be used, something which could end in total destruction as several states in the region are armed with nuclear weapons. Academics, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and policy institutions have both noted the increased risk that this combination of security threats implies, as well as its increased destructiveness. Thus, the central issue is no longer whether conflict prevention is needed or if it can work, but rather under what conditions it can be effective and how it should be implemented. 8 There has also been a positive change in the political arena towards using conflict prevention measures instead of emergency actions—at least on paper. 9 Indeed, the operational effects do not always mirror the content of the well-intended agreements or the beautiful language of the documents. The failure to implement conflict preventive measures is endemic, but far worse among certain states and organizations than others. Far too little is also being done by states and regional organizations to increase the implementation of conflict prevention measures. 10 The failure, or unwillingness, of states to implement conflict prevention measures is somehow illogical since everyday society is filled with conflict prevention measures, such as the social security system, insurances, traffic rules, legal norms or simple rules such as washing your hands before dinner to prevent you from becoming sick. All these rules are simple prevention measures that nobody would think twice about, but preventive measures that could save millions of lives and billions of dollars are often contested or neglected by politicians and policy-makers. There are at least two reasons for this. On the one hand, many decisionmakers do not believe in the possibility of conflict prevention. On the other hand, following the prevailing Cold War mentality, prevention is not considered realistic and military options seem many times as the logical solution. The reluctance towards conflict prevention can also be the result of a fear among states that conflict prevention implies an intervention in internal affairs. However, regional organizations seem to have had greater success than international organizations in implementing conflict prevention measures. This is because trust and integration normally is deeper in a regional setting, which in turn eliminates some of the fear of intervention in internal affairs. In addition, conflicts, even domestic ones, often have regional effects and reasons. Moreover, regional organizations are becoming increasingly important as the UN has delegated the responsibility of conflict prevention and resolution to regional organizations. As a result, states need to interact in a regional setting in order to be effective in developing prevention strategies. Very few conflicts can be prevented with solely national methods as globalization has made the world smaller. Today, national borders are neither a good defining line, nor are they capable of containing conflicts. Scholars and practitioners have devoted great efforts, both in theory and practice, in regards to regional cooperation and its effects on conflict related issues in politics and trade. 11 States are also becoming increasingly involved in regional organizations to prevent such conflicts. Conflicts, both internal and international, in many cases have regional implications, dimensions and connections that necessitate a multilateral approach to conflict prevention. Michael Lund has pointed out that preventive diplomacy in its nature is multilateral, and that organizations such as the Organization of Security of Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the EU, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), later African Union (AU) and the Organization of American States (OAS) - all working in a multilateral context - have been very active in conflict prevention. 12 There also seems to be a consolidation and expansion of regional structures such as the EU, APEC, ASEAN, ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) and NAFTA. As a result, new roles are being carved out for international and regional organizations. 13 This is in line with the United Nations' policy to increase the importance of regional organizations. 14 The effectiveness and impact of regional organizations on regional structures is, however, still relatively unclear. This said, it is important to realize that regional organizations do not operate in a vacuum. In fact, their success in preventing conflicts is directly dependent on cooperation between nations (their member states) and international entities such as the WTO, the UN and NATO. 15 There is no doubt that conflict prevention, both as a theoretical concept and an instrumental tool, is increasingly important as it enhances the possibilities for peaceful development at a low cost for the international community and individual states. Early intervention in conflicts, even before they have erupted, makes prevention easier and militarized disputes or open conflicts can be avoided. At the early stages of conflict, the disputed issues are less politicized and therefore fewer resources, both political and economic, need to be invested. Moreover, militarized conflicts imply a greater cost than structural or direct prevention. It has been suggested that regional organizations could function more effectively as conductors of conflict prevention than other units within the international system (international or state level), but more research is needed on this issue before any conclusions can be drawn. The linkage between regional cooperation and conflict prevention has received less attention than crisis management and security at large, especially regarding the relation to international actors or states. 16 There is a great amount of literature on conflict management and negotiation in transnational settings and cultures, 17 but far less on conflict prevention. 18 The theoretical discussion on the correlation between regional cooperation and conflict prevention has been limited in earlier studies and offers little guidance. Ernst Haas, Robert Butterworth and Joseph Nye, who conducted one of the first studies directly focusing on regional cooperation and conflict management (but not prevention), came to the conclusion that international organizations can influence the conflict management processes. 19 The drawbacks, which they acknowledge, were that they were unable to base their study on an existing theory, but also to produce a new theory at the time of writing. 20 However, studies on cooperation and conflict management have since been conducted and their results have lead researchers and policy makers to assume that a positive correlation exists between conflict prevention and regional cooperation. Yet the theoretical basis, on which such assumptions are founded, does not acknowledge the differences between conflict prevention and conflict management. 21 Thus, the assumed positive correlation lacks theoretical differentiation and reflects the researchers’ conceptual simplification. There are also considerable risks in basing assumptions on too inclusive definitions. To assume a positive correlation is insufficient, since the initiation of regional cooperation is costly and can have potentially destabilizing effects if it fails. Further research is needed, first in regards to the definition of these concepts and second on the relationship between prevention and regional organizations. Cooperation between regional entities differs from national and international, as do regional, preventive strategies. The difference between intra-national, regional and international cooperation (and integration) is not only the number of states involved but also, and more important, the dynamics behind the cooperation. 22 Intra-national cooperation is defined as cooperation between political and economic entities within a single state as it is defined by its membership in the United Nations. International cooperation constitutes cooperative relations between states that are all-inclusive, i.e. open membership for states, such as the United Nations (UN), the World Bank (WB) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) without regional focus. Regional cooperation focuses on cooperation between regional actors with a regional aim. Regional cooperation is, furthermore, exclusive in its membership (non-regional actors are not members). 23 The distinctions and difference in power between regional, international and national units are important to understand in order to make a correct analysis of the prospects of prevention in regional organizations. Sovereignty and the unique enforcement power of national entities are one of the more important aspects that differentiate them from international and regional entities. The aspect of sovereignty has traditionally made each individual state legally “immune” from external intervention and external involvement in the domestic decision-making process. 24 Conflict prevention in regional and international organizations makes the state, per definition, open for external intervention in accordance with the treaty that establishes the mechanism. Despite attempts to protect their sovereignty, a sovereign state will have to give up certain aspects of its sovereignty when it enters into regional or international cooperation. 25 This includes the exclusive power of enforcement and the right to rule in disputes. 26 This transfer of authority strengthens the regional or international entity's ability to act. At the same time, it weakens the national entity's ability to act independently. The actual degree of sovereignty that states surrender is, however, mostly relatively low and at best there is enough to empower the international or regional organization. 27 The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the African Union (AU) are examples of organizations with little independent power over the individual member states and they are thus dependent on the more powerful members. On the other hand, the EU has limited the sovereignty of all its members to empower the organization, which coordinate and act for its members as a unit. 28 How the transfer of sovereignty has impacted conflict prevention varies between the different regional organizations, but generally a higher degree of transferred sovereignty means more effective preventive mechanisms. However, the definition of what prevention is varies between regions and states and it is at times unclear what structures are strengthened or weakened. It is clear that in the post-Cold War era, preventive measures have been given a new meaning and now emphasize peaceful prevention of disputes at an early state. During the Cold War, preventive action was altogether synonymous with pre-emptive strikes and crisis management. 29 Anders Bjurner has pointed out that conflict prevention is a fairly new subculture of security and foreign policy studies. 30 This explains why there is a shortage of studies in the field and why there traditionally has been a focus on military and political security. Regional cooperation is a further addition to this equation and integrated studies on the subject are even fewer. Conflict prevention can be a very wide or a very narrow term for mechanisms created to deal with the prevention of violent conflicts. Tracktwo diplomacy, high-level official meetings, disarmament, economic development and cooperation, democratization, etc. are all different aspects of conflict prevention and its definition depends on the authors' individual purpose. 31 However, the focus of all these aspects of conflict prevention is the prevention of violent conflicts. The focus on violence is important since conflicts per se are not negative. The easiest way to separate prevention from other forms of intervention is to focus on the time factor. Crisis management and dispute resolution are both tactics that are initiated after the conflict has erupted. Conflict prevention is by definition applied before the outbreak of conflict or in a post-conflict phase to prevent a conflict from reoccurring. In this chapter, conflict prevention will be analyzed as concerted actions designed by organizations to deter, resolve or halt disputes before they erupt. 32 In order to clarify strategies and implementation, prevention should be divided into two sub-definitions; direct and structural prevention. Direct conflict prevention includes measures that are aimed at the short-term prevention of conflicts, while structural conflict prevention includes measures aimed at long-term conflict prevention. 33 Economic development is, for example, a structural prevention mechanism that has been relatively successful in the EU and the Americas. The distinction between structural and direct prevention is important, especially in the policy field as it translates into different strategies. It is too often argued that long-term and short-term measures are the same. Lund, for example, argues that all preventive diplomacy is short-term measures because he does not take into account the possibility of long-term preventive diplomacy tactics. 34 At the operational level of conflict prevention, Lund argues that preventive measures are especially effective at, what he labels, the "level of unstable peace", which is a "situation where tension and suspicion among parties run high but violence is either absent or only sporadic". 35 I argue that this is not necessarily the case since some preventive measures are best operationalized at an earlier stage, preferable during the level of stable peace where there is a minimum of suspicion between the potential adversaries. The reason for this is simply that the acceptance of preventive measures is higher when suspicion does not disturb the situation. By building institutions, trust and cooperation at an early stage there is little, if no, reason for a stage of unstable peace. It is at this stage that the creation of regional organizations and economic cooperation per se could have positive structural effects on the prevention of conflicts. However, it is clear that many states and regional organizations see little or no point in working with conflict prevention if there are no open military conflicts and are thus often reluctant to coordinate conflict prevention within and across regions. 36 In theory, the OSCE is an exception to this rule. In reality, however, the OSCE’s implementations are often introduced relatively late. With regard to conflict prevention, the old saying why fix it when it is not broken, becomes a sad reality in many instances. This line of reasoning would translate into an argument of why buy an insurance policy if you are not suffering from an illness. The counterargument and actual reality, however, is that when you need an insurance it is too late to get it. I do not argue that it is possible to prevent all potential conflicts—only that early prevention will decrease the number of conflicts that move to the level of unstable peace or war. Thereby, human suffering and the loss of economic capital can be prevented. Regional cooperation has been viewed as an important factor in handling conflicts for some time now. Despite initial recognition by a few scholars, regional cooperation had been largely neglected as a field of study up to the 1970s.37 Ernst Haas and John Moore concluded, for example, in the early 1970s that it was of great importance to study regional integration, as it would provide a laboratory for observing the peaceful creation of human communities. 38 Along the same line, Haas argued for studies that should compare the peacekeeping machinery of regional organizations with the United Nations’ structure and capacities. 39 The neglect of regional cooperation as a research area was to cease, and the numbers of studies on regional cooperation increased in the 1970s and 1980s. However, this coincided with a general decrease in political reliance on regional organizations, 40 although a few organizations, like the European Economic Community (EEC) increased its importance. 41 It was not until the 1990s that regional arrangements gained a central position in international affairs. Conflict prevention is arguably most suitable for the regional level. The reason for this is that states have a greater interest and are more committed to resolving conflicts in their immediate neighborhood, since such conflicts tend to have implications for the whole region and are thus a cause for regional concern. The International Peace Academy has moreover argued that, in many cases, states prefer to refer their disputes to regional bodies rather than to the UN. 42 This is partly due to the states' fear of losing control over the situation if it is dealt with within an international organization, and partly due to the common culture of prevention, i.e. a common set of core principles, 43 that often exist in a regional setting. The notion of core principles was the basis for attempts by the UN to generate an international culture of prevention 44 , a task that is far from being completed due to the differing perceptions globally. The UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has proposed an idea of a “loose and temporary global policy network” that would deal with prevention. 45 This wide and unclear approach has failed to establish a common understanding of the need and benefits of prevention and until this day, no global culture of prevention has developed. 46 On the international level, the actors are too diverse and lack trust in each other. As a result, it has been difficult to reach a common understanding and acceptance of prevention. Although attempts to establish a common perception of conflict prevention failed on the international level, studies on intra-regional relations indicate that regional actors are important. In addition, the UN has pointed out regional actors as crucial in the creation and implementation of a culture of prevention. The creation of common cultures of conflict prevention on a regional level is hoped to create a regional base for prevention, which later could be transformed into a more or less defined global culture of prevention. 47 The importance of regional actors, in this regard, is highlighted by, for example, the International Peace Academy, which has pointed out that the UN can not act on its own in conflict prevention, but needs to link up to regional organizations. 48 Due to the greater political commitment regionally, and the lack of a global structure and a common understanding of prevention, the creation of regional cultures of conflict prevention, which are shared by all regional members, are essential for conflict prevention to be fully effective. Regional actors are often best equipped for handling disputes in their own region and have also an incentive for long term commitment that other actors lack. Moreover, local disputes that states feel uncomfortable referring to the UN can be better dealt with at a local level through regional organizations. 49 It is also more likely that a regional, as opposed to a global, culture of prevention could be created as the regional identification is somewhat based on a cultural similarity and shared norms and values, even if there is always more variation in a region than expected. 50 The creation of a regional culture of prevention would stabilize and simplify peace-related work, especially in a region like Northeast Asia where there are no regional organizations and very little regional cooperation. 51 But as institutions are important for the creation of regional cultures of prevention, many regions that lack effective regional organizations seem to be somewhat deadlocked. 52 Regional organizations function as an aggregated form of national conflict prevention. By engaging in multilateral cooperation, some prevention is already achieved through acting as a unit with a specific purpose. The fact is that regional cooperation is often considered to be conflict preventative by nature. John Stuart Mill and Jean Monnet assumed that regional cooperation would create a more peaceful Europe. Robert Schuman and Konrad Adenauer also built on this assumption in their attempts to create peace by uniting Europe in a regional structure. The positive spirit continued and in 1966 Mitrany claimed, as noted earlier, that "the problem of our time is not how to keep nations peacefully apart but how to bring them actively together". However, the nature of the problem has proved to be harder than so. Regional organizations and cooperation, per se, is not necessarily a good conflict prevention mechanism. Rather, it is the mechanisms inside the organization and its mandate that largely determines the success of the preventive functions of the organization. 53 It could be argued that regional organizations that fail to fulfill their purpose generate conflicts. Examples of such organizations include SAARC, APEC and ARF that arguably have added more tension than they deducted from regional relations. The logic behind such arguments is that the expected outcome is not received, which creates tension and puts blame on the members. Even though the initiation and failure of cooperation may create increased tension that could be destabilizing rather than preventive, several authors have pointed out the importance of regional organizations as hubs for conflict prevention in their regions, such as OSCE, OAU, ASEAN, OAS and EU. 54 There are several important factors, which work in favor of using a regional approach to conflict prevention. Some of the positive traits are that the geographical proximity makes it easier for states to identify potential conflicts and that the limited size of the organization—in comparison to the UN and other global organizations– makes it easier to reach consensus and undertake action. In addition, by adopting a regional approach to conflict prevention, the measures become potentially more effective since they can be developed to suit the context and specific circumstances of a particular region. 55 Moreover, regional trade and economic interdependence facilitates a positive development in conflict prevention and integration. 56 Also, there are many internal conflicts that have substantial regional dimensions and would benefit, or even require regional solutions. For example, the ethnic diversification in Central Asia, potential refugee flows from for example North Korea and Nigeria in the case of conflict, and other “spillover” effects necessitate regional solutions. Despite the advantages of regional organizations as hosts for conflict preventive measures, there are also some negative aspects to the regional framework. The negative traits of regional organizations are their relative weakness and lack of logistical capability to deal with conflict prevention. Moreover, it is by definition impossible for any regional state to be impartial to a conflict in its neighborhood. Finally, regional organizations are many times constrained by their members' preferences, demand for consensus, and refusal to give a strong mandate to the organizations. 57 The OSCE is one of the major exceptions to this rule as it is given a strong mandate to act independently. Previous publications on regional organizations include several generic studies on Africa, Asia, Central America, Europe, North America, and the Middle East. However, few comprehensive studies on the conflict prevention mechanism in regional organizations have been conducted, especially in regards to Asia. 58 This is problematic, as Asia has emerged as one of the most important regions in the world both politically and economically, but also as a region with some of the worst conflicts and threats to regional and global stability. There is a growing fear among smaller states in all regions that stronger states will grow too strong and develop a strategy of regional intimidation to reach a position of regional domination. This has led to a situation where states in some regions are virtually involved in an arms race as a vain attempt to prevent one or a few states to dominate the other states. This is especially apparent in Northeast Asia, but it is a global problem and has worked against conflict prevention in several regions. 59 The ending of the Cold War and the development of post-Cold War values in Northeast Asia, such as democracy, human rights (HR), and free trade that are considered to be structurally preventive, have at least initially, somewhat paradoxically, created new problems. It has created societal and interstate tension that potentially could lead to violence and other serious challenges to states and societies. 60 A large number of states and regions are in the process of changing from autocratic or totalitarian forms of governance to open and free systems in the post-Cold War era. The problem is that many states in transition encounter large-scale violence and war, and in this regard democracy and free trade could, in the short run, be destabilizing, rather than conflict preventing. 61 In addition to the newly created tension, there is an array of old conflicts that have continued at a high level or even intensified. These include secessionist, demographic, and environmental conflicts, as well as disputes over water and resources. In many ways, this has created more insecurity and potentially more conflicts around the globe. To counter these new and old threats there are many regional organizations that have made conflict prevention a part of their mandate, at least on paper. The tremendous diversity among these organizations regarding mandate, members, focus and structure can be seen in the considerable organizational differences. These organizations do, however, share the desire to prevent conflicts at a multilateral level and increase good relations among their members. Among the international organizational actors, the United Nation remains the only one with a global mandate to intervene with conflict prevention measures. On a regional level, the OSCE is the only organization with a similar mandate. 62 Yet this is slowly changing on the international arena, where for example NATO has adopted a more global approach in its strategies and arguably also in regards to conflict prevention. However, in the regional sphere, the OSCE still remains the only organization with a strong mandate to undertake conflict prevention. Jan Eliasson et al have argued that the European experience is unique, as Europe is the only region that has given an organization (the OSCE) an explicit carte blanche to penetrate national sovereignty in an effort to increase conflict prevention. 
**Now makes our impact uniquely probably—Multiple scenarios for conflict in the status quo—only a transition to regional cooperation can solve**
**Feng, ’10**
[Zhu Feng, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, Has served as Research Fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, Visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10th 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]</span>]
If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending in the region is at least a timely wake-up call as to the vulnerability of East Asia security. Many Asian observers agree that East Asia is in transition. But the key questions concern the sources, the pace, and direction of the transition. There is growing speculation that post-cold war U.S. regional hegemony is eroding, due primarily to Washington’s significant international commitments in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and Pakistan as well as the impact of the global financial crisis and the rapid rise of China. At the same time, new challenges, such as a nuclear North Korea, a changing Japan, difficult-to-solve territorial disputes across the region, contentious history issues, and, perhaps most importantly, the “security dilemma” arising from a power shift in the region have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors. What is the regional security perspective, and what will be the emerging trends? The answer varies tremendously according to the respective preferences, strategic goal-setting, and interest calculations of the regional member states. As John Ikenberry and Michael Mastanduno argue, “the Asia-Pacific is a mosaic of divergent cultures and political regime types, historical estrangements, shifting power balances, and rapid economic change.” But how will this “mosaic” evolve and what will be the sustainable outlook of great-power relations in East Asia? David Shambaugh optimistically assumes that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will not likely lead to a dramatic strategic shift in the East Asian order. Similarly, as Robert S. Ross and Zhu Feng emphasize, structural and long-term international factors, as well as short-term U.S. and Chinese policy trends, allow for tempered optimism that a power transition, albeit competitive and costly, can remain peaceful. But can such optimism be sustained in the foreseeable future? A focus on aggregate defense spending cannot mask the effects of increasingly volatile regional security flash points, such as a nuclear North Korea, or regional power shifts involving China, India, and Japan. Any serious exploration of regional security dynamics, however, must recognize that there are no important hidden shifts in national strategies. So far, power shifts in East Asia have not substantially destabilized the military balance. Nor has the global financial crisis opened up a “window of opportunity” for any power in the region to engage in military adventurism. The ongoing financial crisis has highlighted the fragility, lack of legitimacy, and overall imbalances in global economic governance. At the same time, new and powerful members of the global system have yet to take their place at the table of a wide range of international forums managing regional and multilateral relationships in the domain of old and “new” security issues. This includes the rise of new giants such as India, China, and Brazil, new forms of governance at the regional level of which the European Union is a model, and many emerging states of medium size whose place at the global table remains uncertain. The continued exclusion of the poorest countries in the world and the ongoing problem of failed states, coupled with debilitating ethnic conflicts, continue to loom large. The diversity of regional perspectives should not weaken regional security efforts, which by nature are shared, interconnected, and indispensable. The future of regional security need not be gloomy, as long as we can figure out how to properly handle security challenges in a way that reenergizes regional financial and economic integration in the wake of the global financial crisis. (China, for instance, is agonizing over the repeated demand for greater transparency and vigilant oversight from its neighbors). Meanwhile, there is little evidence that Beijing’s increased military budget encourages instability in the region. Nevertheless, the avoidance of diplomatic clashes and the management of contending security concerns should be a concern for every country in the region. 
**Multilateral structures solves their transition wars arguments**
**Kupchan, ’03**
[Charles Kupchan, Associate Professor of Government @ The Walsh School of Foreign service, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “The Rise of Europe, America's Changing Internationalism, and the End of U.S. Primacy,” Political Science Quarterly, Summer, Vol. 118, Issue 2, Academic Search Premier]
As this new century progresses, unipolarity will give way to a world of multiple centers of power. As this transition proceeds, American grand strategy should focus on making both Europe and East Asia less reliant on U.S. power, while at the same time working with major states in both regions to promote collective management of the global system. The ultimate vision that should guide U.S. grand strategy is the construction of a concert-like directorate of the major powers in North America, Europe, and East Asia. These major powers would together manage developments and regulate relations both within and among their respective regions. They would also coordinate efforts in the battle against terrorism, a struggle that will require patience and steady cooperation among many different nations. Regional centers of power also have the potential to facilitate the gradual incorporation of developing nations into global flows of trade, information, and values. Strong and vibrant regional centers, for reasons of both proximity and culture, often have the strongest incentives to promote prosperity and stability in their immediate peripheries. North America might, therefore, focus on Latin America; Europe on Russia, the Middle East, and Africa; and East Asia on South Asia and Southeast Asia. Mustering the political will and the foresight to pursue this vision will be a formidable task. The United States will need to begin ceding influence and autonomy to regions that have grown all too comfortable with American primacy. Neither American leaders, long accustomed to calling the shots, nor leaders in Europe and East Asia, long accustomed to passing the buck, will find the transition an easy one. But it is far wiser and safer to get ahead of the curve and shape structural change by design than to find unipolarity giving way to a chaotic multipolarity by default. It will take a decade, if not two, for a new international system to evolve. But the decisions taken by the United States early in the twenty-first century will play a critical role in determining whether multipolarity reemerges peacefully or brings with it the competitive jockeying that has so frequently been the precursor to great power war in the past. 

=RACE AFF= 

==MBA== 

===RACE AFF – MBA – Round 5 vs. Westminster=== 

**SRINIDHI AND I ADVOCATE A DISCUSSION OF UNITED STATES MILITARY PRESENCE OUT OF AFGHANISTAN BECAUSE ITS INSTITUTIONALLY RACIST.**

**OBSERVATION ONE: THE EVIL SEED OF RACISM**

**Racism is an evil weed sown in the garden of humanity, its seeds sown in its earliest days sending fresh shoots eash season so**
**that once again little has changed**
**Barndt Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads 1991**
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. 11-12
Racism is an evil weed… a turn for the worse.

**Racism can be expressed with a velvet globe. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions**
**Barndt Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads 1991**
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. 31-33
Racism can be expressed with an iron fist… in ways that are to our benefit.

**OBSERVATION TWO: THE TRUTH**

**Keep it real, Obama’s skin don’t change US militarism**
**World Wide Committee of the Fourth International 2k9**
//With Iraq Plans, Obama embraces US militarism// – 2 March 2009; www.wsws.org/articles/2009/persom2.sthml
Nearly six years after…regardless of popular sentiments.

**There is an interconnection between race, economics and war**
**Marshall Research Assc with the Centre of Research on Globalization (CRG) 2k10**
Anderew Gavin – currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; War; Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22; www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleId=18263
At a time of such great… comes home to roost.

**We must acknowledge the relationship between War, poverty, and race – war has left us on the brink of starvation**
**Marshall Research Assc with the Centre of Research on Globalization (CRG) 2k10**
Anderew Gavin – currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; War; Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22; www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleId=18263
Thus, the American Empire is in decline…very structure of society intact.

**The military industrial complex drains more than $1 trillion a year from the Economy reflecting the devotion of US ruling elites to the maintenance of global military hegemony**
**Higgs Senior fellow in Political Economy for the Independent Institute 2k10**
Robert – editor of The Independent Review; The Financial Crisis and Leviathan; EURASIA REVIEW; May 23 http://www.eurasiareview.com/2010/05/finaical-crisis-and-leviathan.html
Even if policy makers decline… people would celebrate.

**Global white supremacy is the root of all exploitation**
**Black self proclaimed Pan African Scholar 2k9**
Kofi-; The Origin, Ramifications and Rectifications of White Supremacy, Racism = White Supremacy = Globalization http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/The-Origin-Ramificaions-and-Recifications-Of-White-Supremacy-Revised
Today, the global power hierarchy has shifted… No other explanation fits.

**OBSERVATION THREE: SALVATION**

**Now is the critical time for progressive social change**
**Walker Asst Professor of Africana studies at Brown University 2k8**
Corey D.B.; Empire and White Supremacy: The End of American Exceptionalism?; October 21; COUNTERPUNCH-edited by Alexander Cockburn and Jeffrey St. Clair; www.counterpunch.org/walker10212008.html
What happens to a nation once… just and right, both in American and throughout the world.

**Racism is solved through the commonality of struggle**
**Makhijani president of the Institution for Energy and Environmental Research in Takoma Park Maryland 1992**
Arjun-;RACISM, RESOURCES, AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS: Some Reflections on Rodney King Case; INSTITUTE FOR ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH; http://ieer.org/comments/rodneyking.html
There is another direction… the exploitation around the world.

**Our speech act has value within the performance of this debate**
**Moorehead Worker’s World Party 2k3**
Monica-well known political activist; Black Resistance to Racist War; April 10; WORKERS WORLD http://hartford-hwp.com/archives/45a/673.html
Thirty-six years ago… inside and outside the military.

**We must abandon the need to maintain the structure of white supremacy**
**Black self proclaimed Pan African Scholar 2k9**
Kofi-; The Origin, Ramifications and Rectifications of White Supremacy, Racism = White Supremacy = Globalization http://www.scribd.com/doc/16206085/The-Origin-Ramificaions-and-Recifications-Of-White-Supremacy-Revised
Often times I’m hit with the argument that racism is not equal to… to the economic power that it is today.

**The exposition of institutional racism is the only solvency**
**Davis prof of History of Consciousness and Feminist Studies @ Santa Cruz 2k8**
Angela Y. former black panther, civil rights activist/scholar; Recognizing Racism in the Era of Neoliberalism, Vice Chancellor’s Oration; http://abc.net.au/news/opinion/speeches/files/20080318_davis.pdf
Because racism is viewed as an anachronistic vestige… this deep structural life of racism.

**Must acknowledge how the conception of racism has changed**
**Davis prof of History of Consciousness and Feminist Studies @ Santa Cruz 2k8**
Angela Y. former black panther, civil rights activist/scholar; Recognizing Racism in the Era of Neoliberalism, Vice Chancellor’s Oration; http://abc.net.au/news/opinion/speeches/files/20080318_davis.pdf
As the ideas of racial equality… at the middle of the twentieth century.

**The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism**
**Memmi professor emeritus of sociology @ univ. of paris 2000**
Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot pp. 163-165

**A stance against the institutional walls of racism is the only mechanism for survival**
**Barndt Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads 1991**
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. 155-156
To study racism is to study walls… For the sake of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue.

=SOUTH KOREA AFFIRMATIVE= 
==Octas Barkley Forum vs Mtn Brook== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**OBSERVATION ONE: THE NEW RACIAL TRUTH**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Racism is an evil weed sown in the garden of humanity, its seeds sown in its earliest days sending fresh shoots each season so that once again little has changed
Barndt Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads 1991**
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. 11-12
Racism is an evil weed… a turn for the worse.

**Racism can be expressed with a velvet globe. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions
Barndt Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads 1991**
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. 31-33
Racism can be expressed with an iron fist… in ways that are to our benefit.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The velvet glove and illusive power of racism makes the racial implications of South Korean occupation invisible**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Kim Asst Prof Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k8**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Nadia-; IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA; p. 107-108</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">In the last chapter, I asserted…two kinds of races living here.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**US military presence is a product of institutional racism**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**JALAN Journal of Asian Liberation 2k8**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">By the Editors-; On the Origins of Anti-Asian racism and How We Have Fought Back; JALAN, Sept. 21; http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Introduction</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">In the United States, racist views of Asian-Americans are…are and what we need to smash.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Americans have long been guilty of the textbook definition of Imperialism – infected with the sins of hubris, racism and arrogance – never outgrowing the narcissistic notion that the rest of the world wants to emulate the US**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Johnson Prof emeritus @ Univ. of Cali at San Diego 2k6**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Chalmers-; Exporting the American Model: Markets and Democracy; TRUTH-OUT.org; May 2; piece originated as “remarks” presented at the East Asia panel of a workshop on “Transplanting Institutions” sponsored by the Dept of Sociology of the University of California, San Diego held on April 21, 2006; http://www.truth-out.org/article/chalmers-johnson-exporting-american-model</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">There is something absurd and inherently false…extremely inflexible political system at that.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**A new global racism based on cultural exclusion make war and genocide inevitable**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Batur Prof of Sociology @ Vassar 2k7**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Sociology @ Vassar, ‘7 [“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443])</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">War and genocide are horrid, and taking them for granted… and exploitation” are Iraq and New Orleans.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The Korean Peninsula provides a telling example – The United States has taken a hard-line stand in Korea**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Korea Joongang Daily Jan, 28 2k11**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">In association with the INTL HERALD TRIBUNE; US Considers Boosting Force in Asia: Pentagon, http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2931600</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">WASHINGTON: The United States is considering…the ARF under China’s influence.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Now is a critical time, the US must rethink Korea-US Alliance**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Yin-Hay prof @ Korea University and next president of the Korean Assc. Of Intl Studies Jan 24 2k11**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ahn-; VIEWPOINT: China + U.S. = Korean Dialogue; KOREA JOONGANG DAILY; http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=291347</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">When the Republican Party was defeated… in Korea’s future to pursue unification.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**US Military Presence in Korea has provoked China**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Xudong professor @ Univ. of Natl Defenes of the Chinese PLA Jan 13, 2k11**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Han-PLA(People’s Liberation Army); US Forcing China to Boost its Military; CHINA.ORG.CN, http://www.china.org.cn/opinion/2011-01/13/content_21731534.htm</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The U.S. has recently been flexing its military muscle…the developing regional arms race.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**An active US military presence could spark a Korean War**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**San Juan Mnging Dir of NEWSASIA and a former Dir IV of the Natl Security Council Jan 10, 2k11**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Dr. Erick-political analyst, book author, writer, forum moderator, TV and radio broadcast commentator; CRISIS BY DESIGN; THE MNDANAO EXAMINER; http://www.mandanaoexaminer.com/news.php?news_id=20110109175236</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">THE WORLD was (and still is) in the grip… Who wants a world war anyway?</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**US military presence will only serve to create war in Korea**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**China Radio International Jan 24, 2k11**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">CRIENGLISH.COM-CRI is the only overseas broadcaster in the People’s Republic of china. CRY is owned and operated by the State and is one of the “three central media organizations in China along with China national Radio and china Central Television; DPRK Calls to Relax Tensions on Korean Peninsula; http://english.cri.cn/6966/2011/01/24/2742s617222.htm</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The Rodong Sinmun newspaper of the…global peace, security and development.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The Korean Nation calls for an end to US presence**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Korea News Service 2k10**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">End to US Forces’ Presence in South Korea Called For...; September 10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://kcna.co.jp/item/2010/201009/news10/20100910-06ee.html]]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">End of US Forces’ Presence in S. Korea Called For</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Pyongyang, September 10 (KCNA) – It is impossible…a source of misfortune and disgrace.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Reducing US military presence is a concession to China**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Carpenter VP for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies @ the CATO Institute 2k10**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ted-; Plan B For Dealing With North Korea; POLICY, Vol. 26, No. 2, Winter; http://www.cato.org/pubs/Policy-TedGalenCarpenter.pdf</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">If the price were right, it is…influence on the Korean Peninsula.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Chinese cooperation key to checking North Korean aggression**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Carpenter VP for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies @ the CATO Institute 2k10**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ted-; Plan B For Dealing With North Korea; POLICY, Vol. 26, No. 2, Winter; http://www.cato.org/pubs/Policy-TedGalenCarpenter.pdf</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">It is especially important to understand…endorsing robust sanctions.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The only acceptable policy option is the rejection of racism**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif";">Memmi professor emeritus of sociology @ univ. of paris 2000</span>**
Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot pp. 163-165</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The struggle against racism…but the stakes are irresistible.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**OBSERVATION TWO: PREMPTION OF PEDAGOGICAL PRACITCE**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**US Military presence is rationalized through our discourse**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Bilgin Dept of IR Bilkent Univ. 2008**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Pinar, “Thinking Past Western IR?” Third World Quarterly, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01436590702726392</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">One specific product of such synergy…of the very same ‘realities’.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Our speech act has meaning and value in this debate**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**JALAN Journal of Asian Liberation 2k8**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">By the Editors-; On the Origins of Anti-Asian racism and How We Have Fought Back; JALAN, Sept. 21; http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">All of the myths discussed so far…to speak for our peoples.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**International relation’s pessimistic predictions of Asia without US presence ignore China and are rooted within Western Eurocentric conceptions of nation-states**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Kang Assc Prof of government @ Dartmouth College 2k3**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">David-Also Adjunct Professor @ the Tuck School of Business; Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks; INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, Vol. 27, No. 4, Spring; pp. 57-58</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Most international relations theory is…they seem to be bandwagoning.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**And international relations ignores Chinese perceptions**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Irvine visiting Senior Scholar @ the Institute of Intl Strategic and Dvlpmt Stds @ Tsinghua Univ 2k10**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Roger-PhD candidate in the Centre for Asian Studies at the University of Adelaide, South Australia; CHINA SCURITY, vol. 6 No. 3; Primacy and Responsibility: China’s Preception of Its International Future; http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/RogerIrvine.pdf</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">China’s Scholars Enter the Debate…new approaches to foreign policy.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS MILITARY PRESENCE IN SOUTH KOREA.**</span>