=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Disads**</span>= 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; padding-right: 10px;"> [[2010-2011 — Kinkaid (TX) — Vivek Datla & Zach Rosenthal|Back to main page]]</span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**START Politics**</span>== 
=== === 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**PC is key**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Hill 6/10/ 10** [http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/102479-senate-panel-hopes-to-send-start-treaty-to-floor-before-august, “Senate Panel hopes to send START treaty to floor before august”]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"It is imperative that … be punted until next year.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AND, START solves nuclear war, rogue prolif, terrorism, and US-Russian relations**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Collins 10** (James Collins, Ambassador to Russia from 1997 – 2001, Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service, 2/16/2010. “START is key to reducing the nuclear threat,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But arguments from both hawks … is where we must begin.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Overview</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We outweigh on magnitude**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Shultz et al 8** [GEORGE P. former secretary of state, WILLIAM J. PERRY, former secretary of defense, HENRY A. KISSINGER, former secretary of state, and SAM NUNN, former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, 1/15, http://online.wsj.com/public/article_print/SB120036422673589947.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The accelerating spread of nuclear … completed as soon as possible.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Accidental war escalates within seconds**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Mintz 1** [Morton Mintz, 2001 [former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter, The American Prospect, Two Minutes to Launch, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hair-trigger alert means this: The missiles carrying those ... "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Very high risk of miscalculation—that is the only scenario for extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Weinberg 4** [Steven, Nobel Prize winning physicist, Glory and Terror: The Growing Nuclear Danger p. 7-15]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There is one possible use of a large ... this opportunity slip away from us.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Uniqueness Wall</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Memorial</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**START will pass**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Welna 9/16** [David—writer for NPR, “Senate Panel Backs Ratification Of Russia Nuke Treaty”, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=129914158]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MELISSA BLOCK, host: A new treaty to further reduce nuclear arsenals ... debate will likely occur in a post-election lame duck session.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kerry and Lugar pushing**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bender 9/17** [Bryan—writer for The Boston Globe, “Arms-control treaty is sent to full Senate”, http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2010/09/17/arms_control_treaty_is_sent_to_full_senate/]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> On both counts, Kerry said he tried to assuage GOP concerns. ... about updating the current inventory of nuclear arms. He said “there is no question that the New START Treaty, once it takes effect, will protect our security and make the world a safer place.’’ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Compromises prove**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Grossman 9/17** [Elaine M—writer for Global Security Newswire, “As "New START" Goes to Senate Floor, Panel Strikes Compromise on Missile Defense”, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100917_8610.php]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Upon re-emerging, Kerry announced they had worked out a bipartisan deal with DeMint. ... the measure, and it passed in a unanimous voice vote. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bipartisan support**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**GSN 9/20** [Global Security Newswire, “Obama Pushes for Arms Treaty Ratification”, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100920_3490.php]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This afternoon, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee ... the spread of nuclear weapons," Obama said. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Popular**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Rozen 9/16** [Laura—writer for Politico, “Senate panel votes to endorse START treaty”, http://www.politico.com/blogs/laurarozen/0910/Senate_panel_votes_to_endorse_START_treaty.html?showall]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Three Senate Republicans joined with ... of the so-called New START Treaty.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New Trier</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">START will pass </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">GSN 10/6</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2010, “Obama Administration Pursues Landslide "New START" Vote”, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20101006_5463.php] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The pact is awaiting a ratification vote in the Senate, where ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> of negotiations aimed at producing a fissile material cutoff treaty (see GSN, Sept. 27; Edith Lederer, Associated Press/Washington Post, Oct. 5).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Will pass—bipartisan, Obama pushing, and administration is building support </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lederer 10/5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Edith—AP writer, “S seeks big vote on Russia nuclear arms pact”, http://www.greenwichtime.com/news/article/US-seeks-big-vote-on-Russia-nuclear-arms-pact-689055.php] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">UNITED NATIONS (AP) — The </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama administration is hoping ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to entering into force by the end of this year." </span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bipartisan vote and it’s coming fast </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">RIA Novosti 10/6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“U.S. administration seeks soonest ratification of arms treaty with Russia”, http://en.rian.ru/mlitary_news/20101006/160846548.html] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. administration has been pressing ...</span>__ progress in fulfilling the goals of the NPT [Non-Proliferation Treaty] and for expanding opportunities for enhancing strategic stability," the U.S. diplomat said.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SKFTA Politics</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama’s PC is key to SKFTA---union backlash will kill it---it’s key to overall trade leadership, US competitiveness, the global economy, and preventing Korean war </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WSJ 12/6 "A Korea-U.S. Trade Deal, At Last" online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704767804576000542290721476.html </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Korea pact is a step forward, but ... and unapologetic case that trade is in the best interests of American businesses and workers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Trade and growth solve global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Michael, Panzner 200**8 faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and ...or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war. </span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
===2NC Warming Impacts=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The deal is key to US clean tech leadership**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anthony B. **Kim 10** is a Policy Analyst in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation. "Time to Build a Clean Energy Future through the KORUS FTA" June 28 heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Clean energy” has become a political and economic...South Korea. Business and workers in both countries would benefit.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**That prevents global wars from resource wars, great power competition, and warming**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Klarevas 9** –Louis Klarevas, Professor for Center for Global Affairs @ New York University, 12/15, “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As national leaders from around the world are gathering in Copenhagen, Denmark...and the best approach for achieving this is to promote a national strategy of greengemony.</span>









==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alliance DA (vs BMD)</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US-Japan BMD cooperation is __critical__ to relations and alliance </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rubinstein ‘7 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Gregg A. Rubinstein, 9/5, Official of the U.S. Departments of State and Defense, Consultant on U.S.-Japan Defense Programs, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects” http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">D<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">evelopment of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">missile defense </span>…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration officials – </span><span class="underline">the growth of institutional interaction between the US and Japanese defense establishments.</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That’s key to Asian stability, prolif, and regional deterrence </span>
<span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Flournoy 7/16</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michele, U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy, 2010, “POINT OF VIEW/ Michele Flournoy: U.S.-Japan alliance a cornerstone in a complex world”, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201007150534.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> cornerstone in a complex world<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span></span></span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran DA (vs BMD)</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The plan destroys hopes for European BMD </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Schiffer 10 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Michael, 3/17, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, Congressional Documents and Publications, p. lexis]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. missile defense cooperation </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… partners <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in the Arabian Gulf region</span>.</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> That stops Iranian missiles </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ewing 9 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Philip, Staff writer @ Navy Times, “BMD fleet plans Europe defense mission,” http://www.navytimes.com/news/2009/09/navy_bmd_ships_092809w/]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-right: 0.2in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Navy’s new mission of …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> defense — immediately raised many questions that Navy planners must answer over the next two years: </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rubin 9 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Barry, Prof @ the Interdisciplinary Center, Director of the Global Research in International Affairs, Research Director of the IDC's Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy, and Strategy, “What if Iran gets a working nuclear weapon? How Middle East crisis would hit U.S.,” http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/2009/03/09/2009-03-09_what_if_iran_gets_a_working_nuclear_weap.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-right: 0.2in;">__If and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">when </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.nydailynews.com/topics/Iran%22%20%5Co%20%22Iran|Iran]]</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">gets nuclear </span>____… by the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates in the whole world. And that’s why it’s so important to avoid Iran getting nuclear weapons in the first place.</span></span>



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**CMR**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Civil-relations on the brink—McChrystal resignation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">AP 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Associated Press, 6/29, “Petraeus Vows Long-Term Commitment In Afghan War,” 6/29/10, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=103363131]</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gen</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. David </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Petraeus is on a mission to convince a war-weary ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> traveling to Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AND, withdrawal crushes CMR**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">Washington Independent 8</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Spencer Ackerman; 11/13/08; “Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible”; http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">During his July trip to Iraq, Sen. Barack </span>... <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">in a time of war</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, which most of the nation has forgotten.”</span></span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AND, that destroys Iraqi stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Cronin 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick M., Strategic Forum, “Irregular Warfare: New Challenges for Civil-Military Relations”, Sept 2008;</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2008/09/irregular-warfare-new-challeng/]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Irregular warfare introduces new complications to what Eliot Cohen ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">direction</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to clarifying the conflated lanes of authority.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Iraqi instability escalates to nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Corsi 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jerome R; author of numerous political science books, Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, January 08, 2007, <http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=53669></span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">If a broader war breaks out ... </span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">into a third world war</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> much as World Wars I and II began.</span></span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Overview</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**It also makes the US __unable to effectively contain China__, which makes __attack on Taiwan__ inevitable—most likely scenario for nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">Cheong 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Ching, BA Economics, Senior Reporter on Chinese Politics for Straight Times, “Will Taiwan Break Away?: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism”, p. 5-6]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">If Washington were to conclude</span>__ ... <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">cannot be ruled out</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> entirely, <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">for China puts sovereignty above everything else**.**</span></span>__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">AND, a risk of the link</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">takes out the aff—CMR conflict means the military won’t implement the plan—vote neg on presumption</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%; font-size: 11pt;">Feaver 3</span> </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Peter D., Professor of Political Science – Duke, Armed Servants: Agency, Oversight, and Civil-Military Relations, p. 68]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In practical terms, military shirking ... the undesired policy will never be implemented.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China Containment DA</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Military presence in East Asia sends a deterrence signal to China**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray;">McDevitt 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Director for CNA-Strategic Studies @ The CNA Corporation, March 15th, “The</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> 2010 QDR and Asia: Messages for the Region”, http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1012.pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: gray;">US</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">friends and</span> __<span style="background-color: gray;">allies in Asia should be reassured</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that although ... freedom of action.” Again,</span> __<span style="background-color: gray;">this should be seen as a reassuring signal to the region that the US intends to maintain a viable presence for the long term</span>, and commentaries regarding the eclipse of US power in the region are misguided.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, that solves Sino-Taiwan war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray;">Alagappa 3</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Muthia, Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University, “<span style="color: black;">Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”</span>] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __<span style="background-color: gray;">has</span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">also</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __<span style="background-color: gray;">intervened in the</span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">increasingly tense</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __<span style="background-color: gray;">standoff between China and Taiwan</span>__<span style="background-color: gray;">. __The__</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __<span style="background-color: gray;">goal has been to deter China from seeking a military solution ... </span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">emboldening it and trying to deter China without</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">isolating or</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __provoking it.__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray;">Cheong 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Ching, BA Economics, Senior Reporter on Chinese Politics for Straight Times, “Will Taiwan Break Away?: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism”, p. 5-6]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span> ... <span style="background-color: gray;">cannot be ruled out</span> entirely, <span style="background-color: gray;">for China puts sovereignty above everything else**.**</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Overview</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**It outweighs on magnitude, timeframe, and probability—drags in other countries and based on perception**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray;">O’Hanlon 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Michael, Adjunct Professor @ John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">War between China and Taiwan is a distinct possibility ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Fourth, while Washington's commitment to Taiwan is long- standing, it is also somewhat ambiguous, so leaders in China might convince themselves that the United States real!)' would sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deterrence DA</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC UT</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black;">Plan destroys deterrence capabilities causing a Korean war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">Auslin 11/29 </span>**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">[Michael Auslin is a resident scholar in Foreign and Defense Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, 2010, "North Korea will listen, but only to F-22s”, http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/op-eds/2010/11/michael-auslin-north-korea-will-listen-only-f-22s#ixzz16z9Ho2QC, accessed December 2, 2010, ZR]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="color: black;">North Korea's wanton shelling of a South Korean island...</span>____<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">Otherwise, we will send the wrong message to a regime that acts with increasing aggression and confidence.</span>__</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Uniqueness</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. commitment to Asia increasing </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Gates 6-5-</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Secretary of Defense (6/5/10, Robert M., “International Institute For Strategic Studies (Shangri-La--Asia Security)” http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=1483, JMP) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">When I last stood before you, I did so only a few months ... </span>__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;"> security commitments</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> through our ability to defend against the full range of potential threats.</span>__</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">1NC North Korea</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal causes North Korean invasion of South Korea </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Huessy</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 0<span style="background-color: gray;">3</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states [8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560, JMP]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, Carpenter has long advocated a unilateral withdrawal </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ... <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">not dissimilar to a blockade of Taiwan by the PRC portrayed by Patrick Robinson in Kilo Class.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC South Korean Prolif</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal causes South Korea prolif </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Hughes 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, [[http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]]] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">South Korea’s history of considering</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> its <span style="background-color: gray;">nuclear options <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">closely corresponds</span> with</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and demonstrates well </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> four </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">principal drivers governing</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korea was then forced to return to the shelter of the U.S. nuclear umbrella</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the absence of its own deterrent, thus enabling the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">East Asian prolif causes global nuclear war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Cirincione, 2000</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly than anywhere else in the world<span style="background-color: gray;">. </span></span>__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">If a nuclear breakout takes place in Asia...</span>__<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">45</span>__</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Heg/Stability</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Kang & Cha, 03</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND **associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf, JMP)** </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The United States Should Pull Its Troops Out of an Ungrateful South Korea” Not yet. ... years, but withdrawal of that presence and abrogation of its alliance are not. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. __global__ leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goh, 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**... <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse.</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This causes great power nuclear conflict. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Gray</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 0<span style="background-color: gray;">5</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out Logically... </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Thucydides, or Donald Kagan, you will be reminded of the deadly and eternal influence of the triad of motives for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>**</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Troops Key</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Group troops key—multiple reasons </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">a) Commitment and nuclear umbrella credibility </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Payne, et. al, 10</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf, JMP) </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forward Deployments </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">The forward presence</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of U.S. military forces <span style="background-color: gray;">has value </span></span>__ ... <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">the overall U.S. military presence in East Asia as contributing to regional stability.57</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">b) Commitment, usability, and tripwire—we have empirics on our side </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: gray; font-size: 12pt;">Singh and Il-Young 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">senior research fellow at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul and president of the Indo-Korean Policy Forum</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2003, Lakhvinder Singh and Il-Young Kim , “Time to Keep Going: The Role and Structure of U.S. Forces in a Unified Korea,” Pacific Focus, Volume 18 Issue 1, Pages 65 – 87, Center for International Studies, Inha University] </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">intelligence capabilities of the <span style="background-color: gray;">U.S. forces would</span> ... </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus any argument for the withdrawal of U.S. ground forces from Korea must take this point into account</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>

===Japan=== 
====1NC Prolif DA==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Presence checks Japan prolif.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Feng** **et. al** 6 - Scholar at the World Security Institute (Autumn 2006, “China Security” pg online @ [http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue4full.pdf]//au)//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//Second, North Korean possession of ... U.S. military presence in Northeast Asia.//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT**//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**Halloran 9** [Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//That anxiety has reinvigorated a ...in 1945, the Japanese experienced a deep-seated nuclear allergy. That and the threat from the Soviet Union during the Cold War kept Japan huddled under the US nuclear umbrella.//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**Nuclear war**//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**Cimbala 8** [Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//If the possibility existed of a mistaken ... for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.//</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">TNWs</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Allied Prolif/NATO</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**TNW withdrawal causes allied prolif, decimates deterrence and destroys NATO** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Yost 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. David S., Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, International Affairs, “Assurance and US extended deterrence in NATO,” July, 85: 4 (2009) 755–780, Wiley InterScience Database]’ </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Possible consequences of a rupture with established arrangements</span>__...__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">notably in Afghanistan. The tradeoffs that may be made remain to be seen.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Allied prolif causes nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Millot 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Millot, Defense Analyst at RAND, 1994 [Marc Dean, Washington Quarterly, Summer, Lexis]] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The outcome of this refusal to face...</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">__international influence__</span>__, and a growing probability of__ **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">regional nuclear wars</span>__** __involving <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S</span>. forces.__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NATO solves multiple escalatory nuclear wars.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Duffield 94</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Duffield, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, POLITICAL SCIENCE QUARTERLY 109, 1994, p. 766-7.] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects overlooked at least...</span>__than those of the past, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">given</span> the existence of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">nuclear weapons</span>.__</span>


==Multilateralism DA== 

===1NC=== 




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">East Asia is on brink of war—only regional solutions solve instability</span>//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feng 5/10/10 ﻿</span>**[Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10, 2010,**//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]]﻿</span>**//</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//**If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending in the region is ... __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">security concerns should be </span>__**__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">a concern for every country in the region.</span>__//</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//US-Japanese security alliance prevents East Asian regionalism//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//Bandow 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**//**Doug, <span style="font-style: normal;">Senior fellow @ the Cato Institute, former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books, "OKINAWA AND THE PROBLEM OF EMPIRE", March 25, </span>//[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617]]//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A bloody military battlefield in 1945, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Okinawa is the subject of ...</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-style: normal; line-height: 19px;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Then Okinawans finally might gain justice — after 65 long years.</span>__</span>//**</span>






<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Landay 2k** [Jonathan S., National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, 3-10, Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and...with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.</span>