[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Cite requests : john4799 [at] sbcglobal [dot] net

==Afghanistan 1ac== 

===Red Spread=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.**

**Contention 1 is the Soviet nightmare—**
**Russia is preparing for war—18 warrants**
__**Nyquist, ‘01**__ – Former Contractor in Soviet/Russian Analysis Group for U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Former Ph.D. Student at UC-Irvine in Political Sociology, and widely syndicated columnist and published author (JR, War Preps, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jrnyquist.com/war_preps.htm]]</span> LH)
Moscow has outfitted … and nuclear weapons into the U.S.

**Drawdown is perceived by Russia as regrouping to contain them – the plan is the key factor to prevent expansionism – the timeframe is the end of the year**
__**Steff, ‘10**__ – Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm]]</span>)
Well 2010 will be a period … the US remains impossible.

**U.S. focus on the Islamic world prevents any possible prevention of Russian expansionism**
__**Kabalan 6/25**__/10 (Marwan Al, Professor of Political Science and Media at Damascus University, “Russia is reasserting its influence”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/russia-is-reasserting-its-influence-1.645812]]</span>)
The US has always been … them adopt a more pragmatic approach.

**No risk of offense—Russian relations are unsustainable—11 reasons.**
__**Suslov, ’05**__ – Deputy Director for Research at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy (Dmitry V., 28 February 2005, US-Russia Relations Saved for Now, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/us-russia-relations-saved-now]]</span> LH)
The most serious reason … in the majority of Russia's troubles.

**Russian expansionism will lead to an invasion of the Caucasus region**
__**Kvelashvili, ’10**__ – analyst for the Jamestown Foundation's Eurasia Daily Monitor (Giorgi, February 23, 2010. Russia’s Ursine Embrace of Georgia’s Abkhazia Province: Ongoing Annexation with Larger Geostrategic Consequences.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://jamestownfoundation.blogspot.com/2010/02/russias-ursine-embrace-of-georgias.html]]</span>)
On February 16, the Russians … but the United States and the West as well.

**That would draw in the US and ensure nuclear war**
__**Blank, 2k**__ – strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago (Stephen J., June 2000. “U.S. MILITARY ENGAGEMENT WITH TRANSCAUCASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/Blank2000.pdf]]</span>)
Russia’s drive for hegemony … of unilateral advantage and reintegration. 75

**We outweigh on magnitude**
__**Bostrom, ’02**__ – Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)
A much greater existential … risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

**We outweigh on probability—comparative evidence**
__**Umland, ’09**__ – DAAD Lecturer, Shevchenko University (Andreas, “The Unpopular Prospect of World War III…The 20th Century is Not Over Yet,” HISTORY NEWS NETWORK, January 17, 2009, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hnn.us/roundup/entries/60004.html]]</span>)
That is because the …. -case scenario ever materializes.

**The threshold for war is low**
__**Smith, ’07**__ – Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon, p. 433-435 JB)
Twenty years after the release of Dr. … of the end for life on earth.

**The timeframe is 30 minutes**
__**Helfand and Pastore, ‘09**__ – past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility (Ira and John, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span>)
President Obama and Russian … existed in 1995 remains in place today.

**Contention 2 is US-Indian Relations—**
**Relations high now—8 warrants**
__**Roemer, ’10**__ -- U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of India (Timothy J., Hindustan Times, August 17, 2010, We're in this together,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hindustantimes.com/editorial-views-on/columnsothers/We-re-in-this-together/Article1-588203.aspx]]</span> LH)
India is one of the … and peace in Asia and around the world.

**A quick troop decrease collapses US-India relations**
__**Kaplan, ‘10**__ (Robert, Senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, South Asia’s Geography of Conflict, www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)
He or she who sits in Delhi with … United States deserts Afghanistan, it deserts India.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The impact is an indo-sino nuclear war, the brink is now.</span>**
__**Sullivan & Mazza 9/27**__/10 (Tim, research fellow and program manager @ American Enterprise Institute’s Center for Defense Studies, Michael, senior research associate, The Wall Street Journal, “The Next Nuclear Arms Race”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703384204575509163717438530.html]]</span>)
India and Pakistan are the two countries most … for heightened insecurity.

**Contention 3—put away your disads—**
**We are losing in Afghanistan – five warrants.**
__**Nelson, ‘09**__ – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]</span>)
Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to 40,000 … by a strategy that minimizes the loss of life and dizzying levels of expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail.

(and) **Geography**
__**Stewart, ‘10**__ - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14,
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]</span>)
The counterinsurgency strategy and surge in … of the country and its political structures.

(and) **Taliban adaptivity**
__**Dorronsoro, ‘09**__ - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2/9/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Going South in Afghanistan,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20794]]</span>)
Afghanistan may be the right war, but the … than any foreign forces ever could.

**No impact to Afghanistan—**
**a) No great powers would get drawn into a conflict**
__**Weitz, ‘6**__ (Richard, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies at Hudson Institute, Washington Quarterly 29.3, Muse)
Central Asian security affairs have … ties traditionally have predominated.

**b) Too many alt causes to solve**
__**United Nations**__ 10/14/__**08**__ US Fed News, “Build on Positive Trends to Reverse Deteriorating Situation in Afghanistan,” Lexis, 10/14/08
ZALMAY KHALILZAD (United States) said that, …would be sent to Afghanistan.

**c) SCO** (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) **checks escalation**
__**Maksutov, ‘06**__ (Ruslan, August, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization: A Central Asian Perspective,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sipri.org/research/security/euroatlantic/sipri_prod_material/project_papers/ruslan_SCO]]</span>)
As a starting point, it is fair to say … threats that now loom so large by comparison.

**No impact to terrorism—**
**a) Either terrorists aren’t a threat or it’s impossible to prevent them**
__**Mueller, ’06**__ (John Mueller, Ph.D., Professor, Political Science, Ohio State University, October 2006. [Foreign Affairs, Is There Still a Terrorist Threat?: The Myth of the Omnipresent Enemy, p. lexis]
It may well have become …image would suggest.

**b) Terrorists don’t want WMD**
__**Frost, ‘05**__ (Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December)
Psychotic terrorist killers. The overwhelming … capacity to do so is limited and unconvincing.

**c) Terrorists cannot build nuclear weapons**
__**Frost, ‘05**__ (Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December)
Do-it-yourself’ nuclear weapons. It is most… , and the process takes years.

**No impact to Pakistan—**
**a) Alt cause—structural poverty**
__**Goldberg, ’09**__ – writer-in-residence with the United Nations Foundation (Mark Leon, How Rural Poverty Fuels Instability in Pakistan, February 17, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.undispatch.com/node/7710]]</span> LH)
Discussions on the precarious situation in … the vacuum created by poverty and poor governance.

**b) Status quo solves**
__**APP, 10**__ (Associated Press of Pakistan, “WE NEED MORE MARKET ACCESS, ZARDARI TELLS HOLBROOKE”, Business Recorder, 6/24/2010, Lexis)
President Asif Ali Zardari on Wednesday … of peace and stability in the region," he said.

===Legitimacy=== 

**US primacy is in decline – legitimacy is the only thing preserving the world order – deescalates conflict.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edelman, 1/25</span>__**/11 – director of the foreign policy initiative (Eric, //The time to debate America's strategy for the new century is now, says FPI Director Eric Edelman//, http://www.foreignpolicyi.org/content/time-debate-americas-strategy-new-century-now-says-fpi-director-eric-edelman LH) </span>
Like clockwork, at the …national “reform” agenda. 

**We’re losing the war – 5 warrants**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Theros and Rosen, 1/20</span>__**/11 – *Marika Theros, research officer at LSE Global Governance where she coordinates the research programme on Afghanistan; **Nir Rosen, freelance writer, photographer and film-maker who has worked in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan (//Afghanistan: losing the Afghan people//, http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/161092.html LH)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This unfolding </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">narrative </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… </span>__ __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">for their own strategic interests</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**


None of their COIN good offense applies – we’re shifting toward population destruction, not protection 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hallinan, 1/14</span>__**/11 – columnist for Foreign Policy In Focus (Conn, //Afghanistan: Why pursue a losing strategy?//, [[http://peoplesworld.org/afghanistan-why-pursue-a-losing-strategy/]] LH)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">In spite of a White House …politician Mushahid Hussain. </span>**

We have 3 internal links – 
1) Obama’s indecisiveness 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich, 10/5</span>__**/10 – Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University (Andrew J., “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">Bourne thereby …soon thereafter seeking new employment. </span>**

2) Loss kills legitimacy 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raja, 1/22</span>__**/11 – defence and political analyst (Asif Haroon, //The US must solve Kashmir tangle before departure//, http://www.asiantribune.com/news/2011/01/21/us-must-solve-kashmir-tangle-departure LH)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">None can deny …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it will render them more vulnerable</span>__. </span>**

3) COIN causes militarized diplomacy. 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Williams, 1/24</span>__**/11 – reports and produces stories for The Environment Report (Rebecca, A House Divided on Diplomacy and Foreign Aid, http://thewillandthewallet.org/2011/01/24/a-house-divided-on-diplomacy-and-foreign-aid/ LH)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">The same is true …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> efforts to undermine extremism</span>__. </span>**


<span style="color: black;">Independently, Obama’s legitimacy solves global wars. </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson, ‘09</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History @ Hoover Institution, Stanford University [Dr. Victor Davis Hanson, “Change, Weakness, Disaster, Obama: Answers from Victor Davis Hanson,” Interview with the Oregon Patriots, Resistnet.com, December 7, 2009 at 3:52pm, pg. [[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon/forum/topics/change-weakness-disaster-obama/showLastReply]].) </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">BC:</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Are we currently…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> knows whom it will bite or when. </span> <span class="Underline">(and) </span>**

Building legitimacy means the world order outlasts U.S. – the alternative is great power conflict. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> **(Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, //The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,// http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)**
**<span class="Underline">I see a multi-… world affairs.”60 </span>**

Hegemony through legitimacy is good 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span>** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf) 
<span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A final major gain to the United … </span></span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">broad measure of international security.57 </span></span></span>


===Warming=== 

<span class="Underline">**Afghanistan stalemate limits Obama’s ability to reorient foreign policy towards effective diplomacy** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Fernholz, ‘10** – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Obama's final decision in … </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">any of his other initiatives</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">**COIN is a vortex for US diplomacy – kills leverage** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Haddick, ’10** – Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois (Robert, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Afghanistan is becoming a …</span>presumably considered and rejected. </span>

<span class="Underline">**COIN shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Cohen, ‘09** (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sending from 30,000 …agenda - and his presidency. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**The ability to effectively deploy diplomatic assets is key to stop warming** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Hague 9/27**/10 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But I particularly wanted to … </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">don't, the world will determine our destiny for us. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 90.75pt;"><span class="Underline">The hour is late. …maintain "business as usual." </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Dyer, ‘04** - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">War is deeply …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">challenges and solve the problem of war within the context of the existing state system. </span></span>



===China=== 

[[#_Toc278750142]]
<span class="Underline">**Conflict over Taiwan is inevitable now—expanded U.S. presence in Asia is key to deter war.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Maginnis</span>**, 8/6/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>** – Maginnis, a Retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army (Robert, //Winning the New Cold War//, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38425) </span></span>
[[#_Toc278750139]]<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">hegemonic ambitions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: 465.75pt;">**Afghanistan presence takes US focus away from China** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kaplan, 9/26</span>__**/10 (Robert D., author of "Monsoon: The Indian Ocean and the Future of American Power." He is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a national correspondent for the … </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">prospects as a great power. </span>

**Chinese expansionism leads to Taiwan war – Presence is key**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alagappa, ’03</span>__** – Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University (Muthia, “Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”, p. google books) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 115.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States has …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">isolating or provoking it</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>

**Global nuclear war**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic, ’09</span>__** – American Military University (Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 84.75pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A war between </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__countries will not be considered in this study. </span>

**Evaluate magnitude first – we also have a high probability anyway**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon, ’07</span>__** – adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush (Michael, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">War between China</span>____…__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span>

**We outweigh on magnitude – comparative ev**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker, ’05</span>__** – professor at Georgetown University (Nancy, “Dangerous strait: the U.S.--Taiwan--China crisis”, google books) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">At the beginning of …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the assent of the people of Taiwan</span>__. 

**Fast Timeframe – new economic developments**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Financial Times, 11/10</span>__**/10 (//Beijing’s elevated aspirations//, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/1cfa57c4-ed03-11df-9912-00144feab49a.html#axzz16MJk0fHz LH) </span>
At the root of the anxieties …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">and that is just a fact</span>__.

**Chinese Nuclear Launch activates the Russian Early Warning System**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Kristensen, ’06__** – director of the Nuclear Information Project at the **Federation of American Scientists (“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm)** </span>
**<span style="tab-stops: 131.25pt center 3.75in;">In Chapter 2 ….__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">exceeding 10,560 miles</span>__ (17,000 km). </span>**

Accidental launch—triggers a full scale war 
__Rosenberg, ’06__ – **San Francisco Gate (Eric,** “**Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic)**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russian military …way or</span>__ __are <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">false alarms</span>.__**

//<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">That outweighs on magnitude </span>//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Bostrom, ’02</span>__// **//<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">– Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)</span>// __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A</span>__ __much <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">greater </span>…in the 21st century__.**


The threshold for war is low 
Smith, ’07 **– Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., //Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon//, p. 433-435 JB)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 67.5pt;">Twenty years after the …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">beginning of the end for life on earth</span>__**

==God 1AC (Last Read at Michigan)== 

**__Contention 1 – God Exists__**
**Cosmology proves**
**__Craig, ’10__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1. </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Everything that…, spaceless, and unimaginably powerful. </span>__</span>

**So does Fine tuning**
**__Craig, ’10__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">Before we discuss this …of a teleological argument based on fine-tuning: </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 153.75pt;">(and) **Value judgments** </span>
**__Kreeft and Tacelli, ‘94__** – Professors of Philosophy at Boston College. (Peter and Ronald, 1994 //Handbook to Christian Apologetics Handbook of Christian Apologetics: Hundreds of Answers to Crucial Questions,// p. 54-55 JB) 

<span style="tab-stops: 153.75pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We notice around us </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">things</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…**of all perfections" -is God.** </span>__</span>

(and) **Ontology**
**__Craig ’10__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plantinga’s version is …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">great being exists. </span>__</span>
=<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>= 

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Our interpretation is correct—multiple early and independent testimonies to the resurrection narrative make it acceptable by any objective historical analysis.** </span>
**__Craig, ’07__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Subject: Independent Sources for Jesus' Burial and Empty Tomb</span>//** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7047]] JB) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">I'm glad to clarify this issue, …very powerful, indeed. </span>

**Jesus’ ability to control nature proves**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__**<span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8.0pt;"> – </span><span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) //[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html]]// JB)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Christ demonstrated a …**will believe in Him."**</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">17 </span>__**</span>

**So does his rise from the dead**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__** <span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">– Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) //[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html]]// JB) </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jesus' supreme credential to //…//</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">have been poor deluded fools. </span></span>

=<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>= 

**Contention 2 – our Non-Violent Paradigm**
**Those that live by the sword will die by the sword—allowing the US to retain its imperialist presence makes us all die on the inside.**
<span class="Underline">**McCarthy, ‘03** **–** Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 4.6-4.8 JB) </span>

<span class="Underline">Anyone who kills face-to-face …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">who rely on them for spiritual truth? </span></span>
= = 
**Our 1ac stands counter to an extremely corrupt spiritual ontology—rejecting them is a try or die effort to turn back a history of violence in the name of the lord.**
<span class="Underline">**McCarthy, ‘03** **–** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 5.7-5.8 JB)</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Up to this moment institutional …Jesus’ nonviolent monotheism. </span>

<span class="Underline">**We should stop trying to secure the world with our military project and instead lower our defenses to god by embracing the vulnerability of the world in its naked state.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin, ‘10** – Catholic priest and author of 'The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything' (Rev. James, 5/25 The Huffington Post //Want to Experience God? You Already Have: Vulnerability// [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rev-james-martin-sj/want-to-experience-god-yo_b_589728.html]] JB) </span>

<span class="Underline">But in general, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">people …aware of our innate desire for God</span>. </span>
= = 

<span style="tab-stops: 32.25pt;"><span class="Underline">**Our impact is perpetual suffering for all eternity—any risk of this for even one person outweighs any impact they could possibly have.** </span></span>
<span class="Underline">**Bowtie, ‘10** – Politcal Scientist, PhD. (Elliot, 7/1 Professor Bowtie, //HEAVEN OR HELL: WHERE WILL YOU BE SPENDING ETERNITY?// [[http://www.bowtieprofessor.com/religion-and-politics/heaven-or-hell-where-will-you-be-spending-eternity-2010-07-1279]] JB) </span>

<span class="Underline">Hell is not a place where one …their Lord and Saviour: </span>
= = 

**Thus our advocacy: The United States federal government should substantially decrease its military presence in the topic countries.**

**Contention 3 – our impact framework**
<span class="Underline">**Humanity has fallen—we are experiencing the consequences all the time** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Houdman, ‘10** </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Master's degree in Christian Theology from Calvary Theological Seminary and a Bachelor's degree in Biblical Studies from Calvary Bible College. (Michael, Got Questions Ministries. //Was Jesus a pacifist?// [[http://www.gotquestions.org/Jesus-pacifist.html]] JB)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">All of this may sound …the faith (2 Timothy 4:7). </span></span>

**We shouldn’t make our own plans for the future – instead we should best discover how to fit our practices into god’s eternal plan for all of existence.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deffinbaugh, ’09</span>** – graduated from Dallas Theological Seminary with his Th.M. in 1971. Bob is a pastor/teacher and elder at Community Bible Chapel in Richardson, Texas (Bob, 02/02/09, God’s Perfect Plan, [[http://bible.org/seriespage/god%E2%80%99s-perfect-plan]] LH) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">When human plans fail, it is often </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">…but he indeed learned: </span></span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

==Start Politics== 
Different cards for each tournament, START/Obama Good.

==Tax Cuts Politics== 
Different cards for each tournament. Tax Cuts/Obama Good.

==SKFTA Politics== 
Different Cards for each tournament. SKFTA/Obama good Asian stability !
==50% Reduce T== 


**A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country**
**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14) 

The highly complex ... sustainment capabilities.”2 

**A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease**
**Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) 

TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL ..... __reassigned__ and moved to another installation.

==Subsets T== 

<span class="Underline">**Interpretations –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**First, the word ‘in’ means throughout** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases, ‘08</span>** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Colo. 1887. …. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Second, “Military” includes the Navy, Marines, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Random History, ‘07</span>** (History website; all authors have at least a BA, many have advanced degrees, “Pluralism, Expansionism, and Democracy: A History of the U.S. Military,” Random History and Word Origins for the Curious Mind, December 14, http://www.randomhistory.com/1-50/020military.html) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: center 3.75in;"><span class="Underline">In many …been this way. </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: center 3.75in;"><span class="Underline">**Third, Substantially necessitates complete withdrawal** </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lowe, ‘03</span>** – Prof. of Philosophy at Durham Univ., UK (E.J. Lowe, //Substantial Change and Spatiotemporal Coincidence//, Ratio, XVI, 2, June, 2003) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Change comes in …‘substantial individuals’. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Violation – they only have a partial withdrawal.**</span>



==Afghanistan Withdrawal Disad== 

**Withdrawal causes Afghanistan collapse that escalates globally, terrorist attacks on the US, Paki collapse and Indo-Pak war.**
**__Holmes__**, 20**__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">09</span>__**
[Kim, VP of foreign and defense policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, “Victory or Defeat: Obama Is Now 'the Decider'”, [[http://heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2009/12/Victory-or-Defeat-Obama-Is-Now-the-Decider]]] 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama has finally ….</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">Defeat carries dire consequences</span>____<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">. </span>__

**Afghan collapse causes nuclear power wars**. 
Starr, 2001 
[S. Frederick, Chairman of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute @ Nitze School of Advanced Int’l. Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., Federal Document Clearing House Congressional Testimony, “CENTRAL ASIAN NATIONS AND THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM”, 12-13, L/N] 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">There exists a fundamental …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">peace that the U.S. cannot ignore</span>__</span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">.</span>__

**Indo-Pak nuclear war escalates quickly and causes extinction – computer models prove.**
GSN, 3-16-2010 
[Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php] 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Computer modeling </span>____…__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder. </span>

**US retaliates to a terrorist attack, causes extinction.**
Corsi, 2005 
[Jerome, Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, Expert in Antiwar movements and political violence, Atomic Iran, pg. 176-178] 
__The__ <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">United States retaliates</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">:</span> …__'End of the world'__ __paid__ <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">while the country was still capable of exacting revenge. </span></span>

==XO CP== 

**Obs. 1 – Solvency**
**Executive orders control policy and set agendas – key to presidential power**
**__Mayer, ‘01__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kenneth, Professor in the Department of Poli Sci @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, //Executive Orders and Presidential Power//, pg. 28-29) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This theoretical perspective . ... context over which they have no control. </span>

**Executive orders are effective policy tools and cause momentum and defuses opposition**
**__Cooper, ‘02__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, //By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action//) </span>

__Executive orders can__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a</span> __themselves reactive and defensive__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Obs. 2 – Net Benefit**
**Executive orders increase presidential power**
**__Risen, ‘4__** [Clay, Managing editor of //Democracy: A Journal of Ideas,// <span class="commentstext">M.A. from the University of Chicago</span> “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]] 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the modern era, ....</span> __reproductive health__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Presidential power is critical to sustain the vital functions of American leadership**
**__Mallaby, ‘2K__** (Sebastian, Member, Washington Post’s Editorial Board, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb) 

Finally, __some__ will __...__ such as isolationism or multiculturalism. 

**Nuke war**
**__Khalilzad, ‘95__** (Zalmay, RAND Corporation, Losing The Moment? Washington Quarterly, Vol 18, No 2, p. 84) 

Global Leadership Under ...__r balance of power system__. 

==__BRAC CP__== 

<span class="Underline">**Text: Congress should re-establish the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission modeled off of the 2005 Commission. Congress should mandate the Commission have authority to close down Foreign Bases. The Commission should recommend to the president and American people that […].** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: center 3.75in;"><span class="Underline">**And, it solves all the case** </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, No Date** (“Commission Process”, Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, http://www.brac.gov/Process.html) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">On May 13, …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">will be terminated. </span></span>


==Victory Disad== 


**War with North Korea is inevitable this year—the US will win now**
**__Manasan, ‘10__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html, Crowe) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">While some experts believe…I have no doubt that </span>__North Korea would lose it.”__

**US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements**
**__GLOBAL SECURITY.ORG, ‘10__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Pyongyang can credibly threaten ,,,</span>__conducting over-the-shore operations__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>




**Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony**
**__Green, 5-27__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, [[http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It’s almost certain …</span>__most un-American. “Tread on Me__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**Nuke war**
**__Khalilzad__** 19**__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">95</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the ….balance of power system.</span>


==Tactical CP== 

**Text: The United States federal government should deploy Artillery Fired Atomic Projectiles to the Eighth United States Army in Korea** **and develop a doctrine for their use.**

**The counterplan bolsters deterrence and makes nuclear threats credible**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">UPI</span>** 10-29-20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (“Calls for nuclear weapons in South Korea,” [[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Calls_for_nuclear_weapons_in_South_Korea_999.html]]) </span>

With the U.S. defense chief in ,,,,__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">could neutralize the North's nuclear threat</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, he said. </span>

**Solves the case and allows the US to deter, dissuade, and defeat North Korea**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">TAMSETT</span>** 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Jeremy, Graduate Research Assistant at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Evolving U.S. Strategic Landscape: A Fresh Look at Low-Yield Nuclear Weapons,” December 1, [[http://www.gyre.org/news/article/3599/#fulltext]]) </span>

__Diplomacy is the__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ?</span>__....<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> answer to that dilemma</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




**Effective US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Global Security.org</span>__** 20**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">10</span>__** (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm) 

Pyongyang can credibly threaten the ,,,,__-the-shore operations__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




**Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Green, 5-27</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It’s almost certain that ….</span>__un-American. “<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Tread on Me</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Nuke war**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ‘95</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, …balance of power system.</span>


==Six Party Talks Disad== 

North Korea will negotiate nuclear disarmament in the six party talks—but leverage is key 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BusinessGhana. 11/10</span></span>/10. “North Korea Refuses to Make Concessions Before Six-Party Talks Resume” 
http://www.businessghana.com/portal/news/index.php?op=getNews&news_cat_id=&id=137402 
<span class="underline">North Korea on…., Russia and China. </span>

Plan kills nuclear disarmament negotiations—BMDs are critical leverage, means North Korean nuclear proliferation 
Gregg A. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubinstein</span></span>, Consultant on Security, Trade and Technology at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, September 5, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span>, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”, http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf | 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea: </span><span class="underline">North Korean missile …. resolution of tensions on the Korean peninsula</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

North Korea Proliferation leads to extinction 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hayes and Hamel-Green 9</span></span> (Peter, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne; and Director, Nautilus Institute, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, “The path not taken, the way still open: Denuclearizing the Korean peninsula and Northeast Asia”, [[http://gc.nautilus.org/Nautilus/australia/apsnet/reports/2009/hayes-hamel-green.pdf]]) </span>

<span class="underline">The consequences of failing …..end of American nuclear hegemony.”</span>

==Block 2A CP== 


The United States federal government should end its joint cooperation and development of Block IIA intercontinental ballistic missiles. The United States federal government should end its conditions on Japan over joint missile defense deployments that involve third party exports of Standard Missile-3 Block IIA missile. 

The counterplan competes – Block 2A’s are still being developed means there’s no risk they’re used as a deterrent 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ko</span></span>, 1AC Author, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (Ko Young Dae, contributor to Solidarity for Peace and Reunification of Korea, “U.S. Military Strategy on the Korean Peninsula and Missile Defense in Northeast Asia”, May 9, [[http://www.spark946.org/bugsboard/index.php]]) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States regards ….from the Sea of Okhotsk. </span>

The counterplan solves all future BMD deployment – ensures there is no BMD spread 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kyodo News 2010</span></span> (“Tokyo to relax export ban, send missiles to third countries,” July 25, [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100725a2.html]]) 
<span class="underline">The government is …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">should be strictly controlled. </span>

==Give Back the Land CP== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">The plan rest upon a colonial history that makes war and violence inevitable unless we give the land back. </span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 415.5pt;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 14pt;">Churchill in ‘96 </span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 415.5pt;">(Ward Churchill, 1996, Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in Communications from Sangamon State, //From A Native Son// pgs 520 – 530) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">I’ll debunk some of this ..</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, militaristic order on non-Indians</span>__****<span style="color: black;">.</span>**</span>

==Reps K== 

**Their imperative to protect certain populations and the deeming of others as expendable necessitates killing in the name of security**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dean, ’01</span>__** – prof soc @ Macquarie U Australia (Mitchell, States of Imagination eds Thomas Hansen and Finn Stepputat. Pp 41-64) 

Sovereignty and Biopolitics in Nonliberal ….<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">modern state (232). </span>

**The alternative is to embrace subjective agonism. This allows us to unmask violent power relations and creates space for resistance**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shinko, ’08</span>__** – Visiting Assistant Professor of International Relations at Bucknell University (Rosemary, “Agonistic Peace: A Postmodern Reading” 2008; 36; 473 Millennium - Journal of International Studies) 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to Foucault</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">agonism </span>refers to a political …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">positions itself at the war/peace nexus</span>.__

==Weaponitis K== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">De-emphasizing the US weapon arsenal is a form of anti-weapon weaponitis -- The US will gladly announce a de-emphasized weapon posture in order to ensure continued military dominance. The impact is US military domination, belligerent nonproliferation pressure, and otherization </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bond-Graham, 09</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> --- Darwin Bond-Graham, Sociology @ University of California Santa Barbara, Foreign Policy In Focus contributor ,Foreign Policy In Focus, 1/15, “Anti-nuclear Nuclearism”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/anti-nuclear_nuclearism</span> . </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Obama administration …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">present imperative</span>.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Our alternative is to recognize that the problem is </span>__war__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">-- we should decide to make peace before we fight against nuclear weapons </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: .1pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Futterman 94</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – J.A.H. Flutterman, MD, Physicist @ Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, “Meditations on the Morality of Nuclear Weapons Work,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.dogchurch.org/scriptorium/nuke.html]] </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: .1pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">But if war is humanity's ….**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">our own nearness to war. </span>**</span>__</span>

==God K== 


<span class="Underline">**We should stop trying to secure the world and instead lower our defenses to god by embracing the vulnerability in their advantages.** (underlined is alt text) </span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin, ‘10** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Catholic priest and author of 'The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything' (Rev. James, 5/25 The Huffington Post //Want to Experience God? You Already Have: Vulnerability// [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rev-james-martin-sj/want-to-experience-god-yo_b_589728.html]] JB) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But in general…</span> innate desire for God<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Seeking refuge in God relieves all dangers and gives us value to life.** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__Rowe, ‘09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Board of Directors of the Indiana Trial Lawyers Association, Lay Theologian (Tim, //The Magnificent Goodness of God and How It Will Transform Your Life,// p. 83-84 JB) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">We seek refuge…he is helping open the door to Antichrist. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: 304.5pt;">**<span style="color: #333333;">The affirmative, in trying to give us salvation from their apocalyptic scenario is attempting to take the place of God. The Bible warns us about these people, and explicitly tells us not to trust them, or anyone other than the Lord. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: 304.5pt;">**<span style="color: #333333;">De Hoyos, ‘09</span>** **<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10pt;">– </span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10.0pt;">Independent Biblical scholar based in Houston Texas (Brandon, July 2009, “12 2012: Why You Shouldn't Fear Predictions About 12 2012” [[http://hubpages.com/hub/122012-Why-You-Shouldnt-Fear-Predictions-About-122012]] JB</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: 304.5pt;">__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 11pt;">Are we living in the end times?</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">...</span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 11pt;"> an end to fear, division and tears</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Doomsday is imminent, but we need not fear it if we trust in the lord. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Yulish, ‘10</span>__** **<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Stephen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Yulish PhD has a BA in Human Evolution and a MA and a PHD in History. He was a Professor at the University of Arizona</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen 9/13/10 “The Coming Apocalypse” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thestrongdelusion.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=1339&Itemid=9]] JB) </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the last several years…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> and the Last" (Revelation 1:7).</span>__ </span>

<span class="Underline">**God has a plan for all of existence; the affirmative runs counter to this and therefore denies god.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Deffinbaugh, ’09** – graduated from Dallas Theological Seminary with his Th.M. in 1971. Bob is a pastor/teacher and elder at Community Bible Chapel in Richardson, Texas (Bob, 02/02/09, God’s Perfect Plan, [[http://bible.org/seriespage/god%E2%80%99s-perfect-plan]] LH) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">When human plans fail, …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> but he indeed learned: </span></span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Their arrogant belief that they, or their government can solve impacts is the Sin of pride. Pride causes all impacts. </span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bradley, ‘09</span>__** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">–</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Theologian (Michael, Bible Knowledge. //Pride will Come Before the fall// [[http://www.bible-knowledge.com/pride-before-fall/]] JB)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> As part of the sanctification process …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">own efforts and wisdom</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>