__**<span style="font-size: 120%;">All of our cites are up for everything.</span>**__

[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Big Nukes AC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 1: Consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> States, the actors in the resolution, operate under utilitarian ethics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John Hasnas. 1995 by the Duke Law Journal Originally published in 45 Duke Law Journal 84 (1995) From Cannibalism to Caesareans: Two Conceptions of Fundamental</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As we hhave previously seen………necessarily standard operating procedure</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thesis is that existence of nuclear weapons makes nuclear war inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama is engaging in extensive unilateral nuclear cuts – this will destroy deterrence and increasing the likelihood of Russian first strike</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stuart Koehl, 9-24-2009, “Destabilization and Disarmament,” Weekly Standard, http://weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/993kkohs.asp?pg=2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> On the other hand……… command and control systems.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even if there is no intentional war, accidental nuclear war is very probable almost inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bruce G. Blair, Ph.D. in operations research, president of the World Security Institute, and former visiting professor at Yale and Princeton, 2008, “Toward True Security: Ten Steps The Next President Should Take To Transform U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy” http://www.fas.org/press/_docs/Toward%20True%20Security%202008%20.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> While Russia retains the ability………. fooled by false alarms.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Continued Proliferations make deterrence break down and regional nuclear war is very likely</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Robert Pfaltzgraff, Professor of International Security Studies at The Fletcher School @ Tufts, and James Schoff, the Associate Director of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA), Feburary 2009, “Updating U.S. Deterrence Concepts and Operational Planning,” IFPA White Paper, online</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, as suggested above…………….regional nuclear conflict.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Regional Nuclear War erodes the nuclear firebreak risking global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Schwartz, William A., and Charles Derber, et al The Nuclear Seduction: Why the Arms Race Doesn't Matter--And What Does. Berkeley: University of California Press, c1990</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Before examining whether the arms………… large-scale thermonuclear war.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The existence of nuclear weapons makes nuclear war inevitable – multiple factors make the existence of nuclear weapons like a game of Russian Roulette – the end result is a virtual inevitability of nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Martin Hellman, Professor of Engineering at Stanford 1988</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/hellman.html#Nuclear</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Every day, the United States………. nuclear war virtually inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear Retaliation will cause a nuclear winter</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Robock, Luke Oman, and Georgiy L. Stenchikov, Dep. of Env. Sciences @ Rutgers, April 2007, “Nuclear Winter Revisited,” J. of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres, http://www.envsci.rutgers.edu/~gera/nwinter/nw6accepted.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As first suggested by Crutzen………produce a nuclear winter.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear Winter leads to extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Carl Sagan, Astrophysicist Prof, 2-8-1985, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter,” Commonwealth Club, http://www.commonwealthclub.org/archive/20thcentury/85-02sagan-speech.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Now, if you imagine all…….. massive species extinctions</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Risk of extinction through nuclear war outweighs everything, and we must dispose of this threat first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Johnathan Schell. 2000. The Fate of Earth: The Abolition. Pg. 95-96</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Up to now, every risk………. earth and to ourselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only complete disarmament solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Robock, climatology prof @ Rutgers, 2009, “Nuclear Winter,” Earth Portal, http://www.earthportal.org/?p=1481</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The work on nuclear winter……. a nuclear environmental catastrophe.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CBW DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A. Uniqueness and Brink: States want to use Chemical Biological Weapons(CBW) right now!</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Liu Jianfei Contemplating the Threat of Biological Weapons Proliferation Beijing on Biohazards http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=116359 August 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Biological weapons are........lack economic strength.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Links- Nuclear Weapons Deter CBWs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Victor A. Utgoff [1]. – October 1997 [Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses.] Nuclear Weapons and the Deterrence of Biological and Chemical Warfare. The Henry L. Stimson Center. Occasional Paper No. 36</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Other long term policy......use in the future.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Aff's Removal of Nuclear Weapons wrecks Deterrence of CBWs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> <!--[if gte mso 10]></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://pdfserve.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> informaworld.com/715134_770849120_903312920.pdf; )</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Today, the United States.....to deter escalation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C. Impact- Bioweapons use the biggest impact in the round. It leads to a higher probability of extinction than nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Ochs (member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project and a member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group). “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately,” June 9, 2002, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Off all the weapons.......EXTINCTION IS POSSIBLE.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 

===Narco Terrorism AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The government is forced to resolve conflicts in protecting rights. Utilitarianism is the only way to do so:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900. Web. Mar 27 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Respect for the rationality of everyone, which is an underpinning of morality, mandates consequentialist evaluation of morality.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. 1990 Ethics Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of illegal drugs leads to funding and black market activities for criminal organizations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Baoz 99 Executive Vice President, Cato Institute, Washington, DC before the Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy, and Human Resources Committee on Government Reform United States House of Representatives, [[http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-dbz061699.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Black market operations fund terrorist activities.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cooper Wednesday, July 19, 2006. Terrorism groups helped by black market goods. Anderson Cooper. BBC. [[@http://www.cnn.com/CNN/Programs/anderson.cooper.360/blog/2006/07/terrorism-groups-helped-by-black.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Terrorism risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Gordon, Harvey, Visiting Lecturer in Forensic Psychiatry @ Tel Aviv University, “The ‘Suicide’ Bomber: Is It a Psychiatric Phenomenon?” PSYCHIATRIC BULLETIN v. 26, 2002, pp. 285-287. [[@http://pb.rcpsych.org/cgi/content/full/26/8/285]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Destroying opium causes farmers to turn to the Taliban to avoid death</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Walt 10 (Vivienne, April 1, “Afghanistan’s New Bumper Drug Crop: Cannabis”, [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1976867,00.html]], date accessed: 6/22/2010) AJK</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The war on drugs makes it impossible to win the overall war on terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Carpenter 4 (Ted Galen, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror”, Nov 10, Foreign Policy Briefing, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf]] , date accessed: 6/21/2010) AJK</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Losing the war on terror causes loss of legitimacy of American power- destroys heg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Crenshaw 6(Martha, Prof of Govt @ Wesleyan U, p. 5, 2-10-6, Real Institute Elcano) ET</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> hegemonic decline leads to transition wars – the impact is extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nye 90(Joseph- Professor of Interntl Rel& former Dean of the Kennedy School @ Harvard, IR scholar, Bound To Lead, p.17) ET</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of illegal drugs causes prison overcrowding</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Benson, Rasmussen 1996 Illicit Drugs and Crime, The Independent Institute, http:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> www.independent.org/publications/policy_reports/detail.asp?type=full&id=2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prison overcrowding leads to the spread of AIDS/HIV.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care, Treatment and Support in Prison Settings A Framework for an Effective National Response Co-published with the World Health Organization and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. 2006.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The spreads of AIDS threatens human existence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Joshua Lederberg, Molecular biologist and Nobel Prize winner in 1958, 1991 In Time of Plague: The History and Social Consequences of Lethal Epidemic Disease, p 35-6)</span>

===Needle Exchange Program AC 2.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Framework = consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. States the actors in the resolution consequentialist ethics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "But consider now...standard operating procedure"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. The underpinning of morality demand a consequentialist framework. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. 1990 Ethics Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We have a...to save many"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Plan Text: All US states governments and municipalities that have drug paraphernalia laws or regulations, restricting needle exchange programs should repeal those laws and regulations and should implement needle exchange programs, I reserve the right to clarify. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NEPs are an issue of public health.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NATIONAL Pointed Debate over Needle Exchange Programs by Makebra M. Anderson NNPA, National Correspondent [[http://www.blackpressusa.com/news/Article.asp?SID=3&Title=National+News&NewsID=3863]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The senior scientists...Surgeon General wrote."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 1: Uniqueness</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminal justice system hampers NEPs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “State Laws Block Funds For Needle Exchange” Lauren Browne, [[http://columbianewsservice.com/2010/02/state-laws-foil-new-federal-funding-for-life-saving-needle-exchange/]], Columbia News Service February 1, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Health experts...grass-roots advocates"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminal justice system hampers NEPs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Goldberg, Lina. Legal Issues Surrounding Syringe Exchange Programs [Internet]. Version 4. Knol. 2008 Jul 28. Available from: [[http://knol.google.com/k/lina-goldberg/legal-issues-surrounding-syringe/18lnh961rb830/6]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Once the arguments...their clients"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Possession of syringes is illegal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bluthenthal, Ricky N., et al, "Drug Paraphernalia and Injection-Related Infectious Disease Risk Among Drug Injectors." Journal of Drug Issues. 1999; 29(1): pp. 1-16.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Drug paraphernalia laws...Northern California"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 2: NEPs solve AIDS/Hepatitis.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 80% of all AIDS infections in the US are a result of sharing contaminated needles</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Gafni et. al, ’97 (August, PhD from McMaster University, Canadian Medical Association Journal, [[http://www.cmaj.ca/cgi/reprint/157/3/255.pdf]]) Needle exchange programs: an economic evaluation of a local experience Michelle Gold,* MSW; Amiram Gafni,*† PhD; Penny Nelligan,‡ RN, BScN; Peggy Millson,§ MD, MHScEvidence Études From *the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and †the Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont.; ‡the Hamilton–Wentworth Regional Public Health Department (a teaching health unit affiliated with McMaster University and the University of Guelph); and §the HIV Social, Behavioural and Epidemiological Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont. Can Med Assoc J1997;157:255-62</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "AIDS is ... will reduce transmission"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs have been proven to prevent HIV and hepatitis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CDC, Center for Disease Control, December 2005 (CDC, Center for Disease Control, “Syringe Exchange Programs” Report to Congress, December 2005 [[http://www.cdc.gov/idu/facts/aed_idu_syr.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "To succeed in...infected with HIV"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle Exchange programs have high return rates.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kate Ksobiech [1] Harm Reduct J. 2004; 1: 2. Published online 2004 April 19. doi: 10.1186/1477-7517-1-2.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Return Rates for Needle Exchange Programs: A Common Criticism Answered Center for AIDS Intervention Research (CAIR), Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 2071 N. Summit Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202, United States Corresponding author. Kate Ksobiech: [[mailto:kksobiec@mcw.edu|kksobiec@mcw.edu]] April 19, 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The overall return...presence of HIV"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NEPs encourage participation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kate Ksobiech [2]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Harm Reduct J. 2004; 1: 2. Published online 2004 April 19. doi: 10.1186/1477-7517-1-2.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Return Rates for Needle Exchange Programs: A Common Criticism Answered Center for AIDS Intervention Research (CAIR), Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 2071 N. Summit Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202, United States Corresponding author. Kate Ksobiech: [[mailto:kksobiec@mcw.edu|kksobiec@mcw.edu]] April 19, 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The latest available...and/or services"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 3: Impact</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The spread of AIDS causes mutations that risk extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Paul Ehrlich and Anne Ehrlich, Professors of Population studies at Stanford University, THE POPULATION EXPLOSION, 1990, p. 147-8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Whether or not...transmissible through coughs"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> AIDS will lead into extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Joshua Lederberg, Molecular biologist and Nobel Prize winner in 1958, 1991 In Time of Plague: The History and Social Consequences of Lethal Epidemic Disease, p 35-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Will AIDS mutate...</span>

===Racism AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Standard: Liberation of Racism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Racism dooms the planet – it must rejected.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Joseph Barndt, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To study racism......to it to continue.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Racism denies the minorities the right to feel human.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Michael Billig, Loughborough University, “Humor and hatred: the racist jokes of the Ku Klux Klan” Discourse & Society, Copyright 2001. Volume 12, No. 3, pp. 267-289</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The article examines.....dehumanizing, violent humour</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dehumanization is the root of all evil; it causes genocide, slavery, sterilization, and subjugation </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Katz, 1997</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Katheryn D. Katz, prof. of law - Albany Law School, 1997, Albany Law Journal )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is undeniable.....misery of others</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even Obama’s democratic policies on mandatory minimums retain the racist nature of these principles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Russ Belville, July 28, 2010 “Democrats make crack cocaine sentencing slightly less racist” http://stash.norml.org/democrats-make-crack-cocaine-sentencing-slightly-less-racist</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> So Congress, controlled.............racist to blacks. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Beyond the crack and powder cocaine distinction, mandatory minimum systems regarding illegal drugs are racist.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “General Effect of Mandatory Minimum Prison Terms” B S Meierhoefer, Federal Judicial Ctr Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building United States, 1992, NCJ 137258</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Although there are..... a statistical appendix</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even beyond mandatory minimums the criminal enforcement of drug laws targets minorities uniquely and is a form of institutional racism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Olatunde Johnson, Professor of Law at Columbia, 08 http://www3.law.columbia.edu/hrlr/hrlr_journal/39.1/j.%20OJohnson-F.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> LEGISLATING RACIAL FAIRNESS IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE -- Associate Professor, Columbia University School of Law. B.A., Yale University; J.D., Stanford Law School. For helpful research assistance I thank Aimee Pringle and Aslihan Bulut of the Columbia Law School Library. The ideas in this article were originally presented at the symposium entitled “Pursuing </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Racial Fairness in the Administration of Justice: Twenty Years After McCleskey v. Kemp,” held by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and Columbia Law School on March 2–3, 2007. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The factors behind....of drug offenders</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 3: Drug laws regarding possession are racist.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Sentencing Project. October 4, 2001. “Crack Cocaine Sentencing Policy: Unjustified and Unreasonable.” See <http://www.sentencingproject.org/pdfs/1003.pdf> (June 16, 2004).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Approximately 2/3 of......men and women. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This treatment option eliminates the racist nature of the current drug criminalization system. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Race and the Criminal Justice System” Drug Policy Alliance [2] – organization that provides policy alternatives to the drug war. August 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Affluent predominantly white....</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

===T of Public Health=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//A: Interpreation: Public Health is defined by the Merriam Webster dictionary as: http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary//public+health</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And the aff must defend public health explciity in the 1AC.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: Violation: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C:Standards:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reciprocal Burdens </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topic Literature</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D: Voter: Fairness</span>

===Elections DA=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: Uniqueness: The Democrats will retain the Senate in the midterm elections in the status quo</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nate Silver 10/25/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ([[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: Link: The aff defends criminalization is bad, and will be highly unpopular with votersDemocrats will be held responsible by the voters for reforming drug laws – they control both houses of Congress as well as the Presidency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fox News 4/20/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/us/2010/04/20/ap-cnbc-poll-legalizing-pot/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: Internal Link: Jeopardizing Democratic control of the Senate is bad – it will allow the GOP to block EPA regulations which are critical to prevent global warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Enviromental Leader 11/11/09 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.environmentalleader.com/2009/11/11/as-congress-drags-feet-on-co2-regulations-epa-moves-forward/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">EPA warming regulations will solve warming and will spur international action</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Livermore, 09(Exec. Director-Institute for Policy Integrity at NYU Law, [[http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-vine/why-the-post-dead-wrong-about-carbon-regulation]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D: Impact: Failure to curb runaway warming risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tickell, 08 ([[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]) </span>

===China Bashing DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness: Obama is holding back</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ian Swanson, 9/14/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Punishing China becomes issue for Democrats in midterm election,” [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/118813-punishing-china-becomes-issue-in-midterm-election-]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Just a vote legislation back."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Link: Reform of US drug laws will drain Obama’s political capital – the affirmative is highly controversial</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Huffington Post 8/9/09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/norm-stamper/drug-prohibition-and-the_b_255006.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "There's little doubt...on health care."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C. Internal link: Obama’s political capital is key to prevent China bashing and a decline in the trade relationship</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ide 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (William, Washington Bureau – VOA, “US, China Meet to Smooth Ties; Analysts Say Big Challenges Remain”, Voice of America News, 9-8, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-China-Meet-to-Smooth-Ties-Analysts-Say-Big-Challenges-Remain-102472234.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Liberthal noted...said Liberthal."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama’s political capital is key to check China bashing protectionist legislation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Financial Times 9/12/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [Alan Beattie, “Beijing currency saga returns,” September 12, 2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/716f8442-be86-11df-a755-00144feab49a.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Obama...on an airliner."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D. Impact – protectionism against China collapses trade, the global economy, and causes US/China war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Droke, 10 – Editor of the Momentum Strategies Report (3/29/10, Green Faucet, “America and the Next Major War,” [[http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the current phase...suffer," writes Barker."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> US China war causes global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Johnson, 1 (5/14/01, The Nation, “Time to Bring the Troops Home,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "No sane...nuclear holocaust."</span>



===START DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness: START will pass</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Edith Lederer, AP Staff Writer. 10/5/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jeaEUqJosGx9Fg]]x6DCuiGAUNpwD9ILS9C00?docId=D9ILS9C00</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Obama administration...Oct. 1, 1992"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Link(Against Needle Exhange AC) : Obama’s passing of Needle Exchange Program federal funding and the removal of these state paraphernalia laws will destroy his political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alex Blaze May 20, 2009 "Needle Exchange isn't a priority and proably won't" </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Sure, the White...style wins out"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://stopthedrugwar.org/user/dborden|David Borden]], July 10, 2009, 03:16pm[[http://stopthedrugwar.org/speakeasy/2009/jul/10/big_news_house_subcommittee_appr|Big News: House Subcommittee Approves Legislation Eliminating the Needle Exchange Funding Ban]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This isn't a...opposing harm reduction"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C. Internal Link: Obama’s political capital’s is key to START passage</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rogov 10 (Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views Obama's first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The domestic political...the United States"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Failure to pass START in the lame duck session dooms US Russian relations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Forbes 10/25/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2010/10/25/politics-us-us-elections-foreign-policy-analysis_8043448.html?boxes=Homepagebusinessnews]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "But Obama's foreign...New START treaty"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> US-Russian relations are critical to prevent Russian nationalism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Simes 7 (Dimitri, President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, [[http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=CDI+Russia+Profile+List&articleid=a1193837742]], AD: 7/5/10)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "But if the...potentially catastrophic effects"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D. Impact: Nationalist revival causes US-Russian nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Israelyan 98 (Victor, Former Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist, Winter, Washington Quarterly)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The first and...fall down together"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> US Russia nuclear war causes extinction and is the only existential risk.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nick Bostrum __Exsistential Risks. Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards. Nick Bostrum. Ph.D. Philosophy at Oxford. Vol. 9. 2002. 2001.__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __"A much greater...the 21st century"__</span>

===START DA Updates=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness and Brink: Obama is pushing the START treaty now - it will pass in the lame duck session and the Republicans are currently in favor of this measure. This is Oldfield on Friday </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Harry Oldfield. Obama says the rafification of the START treaty is essential. 11/19/10</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www.discountvouchers.co.uk/news72003535.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "US President Barack Obama.......in the recent elections."</span>

===Middle East Peace DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness: Obama's investing political capital into achieving successful peace process negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians -- failure makes instability and war inevitable. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alon Ben-Meir 10, professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU, Direct Talks and their Potential Consequences, Middle East Online, 2010-08-24, http://www.middle- east-online.com/english/?id= 40818</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"President Obama has........acquiring nuclear weapons."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Link: Reform of US drug laws will drain Obama’s political capital – the affirmative is highly controversial</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Huffington Post 8/9/09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/norm-stamper/drug-prohibition-and-the_b_255006.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "There's little doubt...on health care."</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: Internal Link: Obama’s political capital is key to making the negotiations succeed. The Guardian on September 2nd </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Editorial, Thursday 9-2-10, http://www.guardian. co.uk/commentisfree/2010/sep/ 02/editorial-middle-east- peace-talks)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Israeli prime minister.........will not last long" </span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama’s spending capital on the Middle East peace process now --- failure makes Iran nuclearization – and subsequent Israeli strikes – inevitable Reuters September 2nd writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reuters 9/2/10 http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6814W920100902?pageNumber=2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The President, who has........re-election in 2012."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Iran strike collapses China’s Economy and threatens Regime Stability Bishop on August 16th </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bill Bishop, 8/16/2010 [Forbes, “If Israel Attacks Iran, What About China?”, http://blogs.forbes. com/china/2010/08/16/if- israel-attacks-iran-what- about-china/]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"An attack on Iran.....international trade depend."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D: Impact: Threats to the Chinese Regime risk nuclear war Epoch Times writes </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Epoch Times, 8/4/2004, http://english. epochtimes.com/news/5-8-4/ 30931.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Since the Party's life.........with their lives"</span>

===Biopower K 1.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link #1: The affirmative advocacy of public health good is key to biopolitical and social control for the state Bamber on Feb 10th </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stephen Bamber, President Recovery Academy, 3/10/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www.theartoflifeitself.org/2010/03/10/recovery-power-and-resistance/ </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"Those entering drug treatment..........this historical point."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#2 – Public Health is a form of social control designed to ensure that the entire population are healthy, productive and functional . Petersen writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alan R. Petersen. Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Murdoch University, Western Australia. 1997.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Foucault, health and medicine, Page 100-101.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"All this is not.......the purposes of good health."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#3 – Medicalization of social problems justifies the worst forms of biopolitical social control . Conrad [1] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter Conrad. Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 1992 18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"To these categories.......claims for self-regulation."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#4 - The goals of health care and medicalization are to produce and maintain productive bodies that can preserve themselves as slaves of the state . Nye [1] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert A. Nye. Professor of the Humanities and pro­fessor of history at Oregon State University. Journal of History of the Behavioral Sciences, Vol. 39(2), 115-129 Spring 2003: The Evolution of the Concept of Medicalization In The Late Twentieth Century, Page 119-120.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"However, reluctant or not, medical.......despised filth and disorder."</span>



<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">**Impact:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Biopower and social control is a destructive action. Biopower manipulates autonomy, which threatens the survival of humanity and causes genocide. Foucault writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Foucault. The History of Sexuality. Volume 1: The Introduction: Chapter 5. 1978. Pantheon Books.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"Since the classical age.......phenomena of population"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The alternative** is to vote negative to stop biopolitical control </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Voting negative turns this debate into a cite of resistance—use your ballot as both a concrete agitation and ideological critique, destabilizing the utopian metanarratives which form the unquestioned foundation of the affirmative—only our localized criticism can present a viable strategy for challenging dominant power relations. Pickett writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pickett Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2005 [On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 42-43]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"The ultimate goal of these various......it will never exist again."</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">**Framework:**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">K comes first because real-world impacts are most important.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pre-fiat debate is key ground for both sides. Fiat based debate is un-educational and illusory. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">1. In-round education comes first—it is more real world</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">2. Fiat masks the role that we as debaters play in constituting hierarchies</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">3. Fiat discourages personal advocacy and paralyzes action</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 4. Fiat is illusory. </span>


===Biopower K 2.0=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">Link #1:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Medicine lets professionals control social functions and censor those who threaten them Conrad [2] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter Conrad. Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 1992 18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"Medicine acts not only........are also gatekeeping activities."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#2 - Medicalization allows deviancy to be blamed on the victim while ignoring that the current structure of social situations could be the real cause. Conrad [3] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter Conrad. Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 1992 18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The medicalization of deviant behavior.....an individual neurological disorder." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#3 - Medicalization invades every aspect of our lives as a prevention method for disease so that we do not become a burden to the system. Nye [2] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert A. Nye. Professor of the Humanities and pro­fessor of history at Oregon State University. Journal of History of the Behavioral Sciences, Vol. 39(2), 115-129 Spring 2003: The Evolution of the Concept of Medicalization In The Late Twentieth Century, Page 119-120.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The combination of picemeal........in the 1960s and 1970s." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link#4 - Medicalization has become the preferred method of control over deviants leading to an increase in “sickness” and a decrease in personal responsibility. Conrad [4] writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter Conrad. Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 1992 18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "When treatment rather than......to handling deviant behavior." </span>


<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">**Impact:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Biopower and social control is a destructive action. Biopower manipulates autonomy, which threatens the survival of humanity and causes genocide. Foucault writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Foucault. The History of Sexuality. Volume 1: The Introduction: Chapter 5. 1978. Pantheon Books.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"Since the classical age.......phenomena of population"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The alternative** is to vote negative to stop biopolitical control </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Voting negative turns this debate into a cite of resistance—use your ballot as both a concrete agitation and ideological critique, destabilizing the utopian metanarratives which form the unquestioned foundation of the affirmative—only our localized criticism can present a viable strategy for challenging dominant power relations. Pickett writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pickett Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2005 [On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 42-43]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">"The ultimate goal of these various......it will never exist again."</span>


<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">**Framework:**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">K comes first because real-world impacts are most important.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pre-fiat debate is key ground for both sides. Fiat based debate is un-educational and illusory.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">1. In-round education comes first—it is more real world</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">2. Fiat masks the role that we as debaters play in constituting hierarchies</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">3. Fiat discourages personal advocacy and paralyzes action</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">4. Fiat is illusory.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 

===Rule of Law AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juveniles = individuals aged below 18. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is important to note that typical punishment for juveniles sentenced in adult court is still separate from adults. Derrick Johnson writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Derrick Johnson, Healthy Families and Communities Subcommittee, U.S. House of Representatives Education and Labor Committee joint hearing with the Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA): Overview and Perspectives 2175 Rayburn H.O.B. July 12, 2007, 2:00 pm Testimony by Derrick Johnson, Vice-Chair Arizona Juvenile Justice Commission</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Value is Justice. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Value Criterion is maintence of the rule of law. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lavoie define the Rule of law </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lavoie, 2005 [Richard, Assistant Professor, University of Texas at Austin School of Law, “Issues Facing The Judiciary: Activist Or Automaton: The Institutional Need to Reach A Middle Ground in American Jurisprudence,” Albany Law Review, 68 Alb. L. Rev. 611]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The first requirement......of statutory language. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1: Trial by jury is essential to maintaining fair legal outcomes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, the Juvenile system is incapable of affording juveniles due process rights in their trials. Ainsworth [1] writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Janet Ainsworth, Professor of Law at Seattle University, September 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(lexis: 36 B.C. L. Rev 927) Boston College Law Review</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The unhappy truth is that ......... a unified criminal justice system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, trial by jury is crucial—for equivalent charges, judges administer harsher punishments and convict more frequently than juries. Ainsworth [2] writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Denial of the right to trial by jury.........a bench trial. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the myth of a less adversarial juvenile court system exposes juveniles to significant procedural risk—a majority of youths waive the right to counsel, despite the fact that counsel is critical in court. Ainsworth [3] writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The procedural mandate in Gault which......or were absent altogether. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The procedural deficiencies of juvenile courts are a result of paternalism, and trying juveniles in adult courts would eradicate this ideology. Ainsworth [4] writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To the extent that the......disposition proposed by the state. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2: The paternalistic approach to justice adopted by the juvenile court encourages racial disparity in the justice system. Automatic transfer removes discretion and therefore mitigates racial injustice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint A: African Americans are exposed to the harsher punishments of adult court disproportionately due to the discretion involved in transfer decisions. Olson writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jodi K Olson. “Waiver of Juveniles to Criminal Court: Judicial Discretion and Racial Disparity” Justice Policy Journal. Volume 2 - No. 1 - Summer 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> An analysis of juvenile adult........to be waived to adult court (Males and Macallair, 2000). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint B: In terms of procedures, juvenile courts are uniquely biased against minorities First, the limited fact finding and lack of procedural scrutiny leaves judges to make estimations, which are often racist. Jordan writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kareem Jordan and Tina L. Freiburger. “Examining the Impact of Race and Ethnicity on the Sentencing of Juveniles”. Criminal Justice Policy Review 2010 21: 185</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Allbonetti (1991) argued that.........to "protect" the community. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint B: In terms of procedures, juvenile courts are uniquely biased against minorities First, the limited fact finding and lack of procedural scrutiny leaves judges to make estimations, which are often racist. Jordan writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kareem Jordan and Tina L. Freiburger. “Examining the Impact of Race and Ethnicity on the Sentencing of Juveniles”. Criminal Justice Policy Review 2010 21: 185</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Allbonetti (1991) argued that....involving black youth. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The result of racial disparity is harsher punishment, even after controlling for crime severity. Jolanta Juszkiewicz writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jolanta Juszkiewicz, Youth Crime/Adult Time: Is Justice Served?, Pretrial Services Recourses Center, Building Blocks for Youth, 2000. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">African-American (43%) and Latino (37%).........than White or Latino youth. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The prevalence of this problem is indisputable—a meta-study has shown a clear consensus regarding racial disparity in juvenile courts. Pope writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carl E. Pope, William Feyerherm. “Minorities and the Juvenile Justice System” U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. July 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This process identified about.........(such as first offenses or personal offenses).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint C: Criminal Court has less discretion, and therefore discriminates less: Olsen [2] writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jodi K Olson. “Waiver of Juveniles to Criminal Court: Judicial Discretion and Racial Disparity” Justice Policy Journal. Volume 2 - No. 1 - Summer 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The literature analysis..........to adult criminal court. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Also, trial by jury in adult court empirically reduces the impact of racism. Decisions made by juries in adult courts have not shown statistically significant racial bias. Mitchell writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tara L. Mitchell, Ryan M. Haw, Jeffrey E. Pfeifer and Christian A. Meissner. “Racial Bias in Mock Juror Decision-Making: A Meta-Analytic Review of Defendant Treatment.” Law and Human Behavior. Volume 29, Number 6, 621-637.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second meta-analysis conducted.........did not influence guilt decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Racism is the root cause of violence Foucault concludes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Michel, Society Must be Defended: Lectures at the College de France, 1975-1976, p. 254-257 Trans. David Macey] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What in fact is racism? It is .......activating the theme of racism </span>

===Massachusetts AC 1.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I affirm </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Observation 1 is the framework</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I value morality because the word ought in the resolution implies an evaluation based on morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The standard is consequentialism for 2 reasons</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First the. State the state controls the criminal justice system - The government is forced to resolve conflicts in protecting rights. Utilitarianism is the only to do so:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But consider now that…….standard operating procedure. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, Specifically the goal of the criminal justice system is prevention of crime through deterrence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mathew Haist – JD Northwestern – 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - http://www.law.northwestern.edu/jclc/backissues/v99/n3/9903_789.Haist.pdf</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarian theories of criminal punishment……..criminals or rehabilitate. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text: The criminal justice systems in the United States should adopt the Massachusetts model of trying juveniles as adults. Specifically that juveniles charged with first and second degree murder should automatically be treated as adults via legislative waiver. I reserve the right to clarify and explain this system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Observation 2 is Massachusetts offers the ideal model of criminal justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Juveniles are frequently already transferred to adult courts via judicial waiver – however this process occurs in an ad hoc fashion – Massachusetts offers a superior model because of its uniformity Chamberlin [1] writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Christine Chamberlin, Boston College Law Review, March 2001. (Lexis: 42 B.C. L. Rev 391)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Under judicial waiver…….. adult criminal court.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, Massachusetts offers the perfect model of trying juveniles as adults – it maintains harsher sentences for murderers while reasonably maintaining blended sentencing for less serious offenses Chamberlin [2] continues</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To prevent juveniles…… retribution be properly attained.. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, Our plan strengthens the rehabilitation function of juvenile courts -- Massachusetts system offers best hope for actual rehabilitation of juvenile offenders – this turns all the negatives arguments</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chamberlin [3] furthers</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Massachusetts' legislative waiver………… justice system was founded. n247</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fourth, We have empirical solvency – Massachusetts juvenile crime rates for violent felonies have declined significantly Spinney gives the empirics</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Elizabeth R. Spinney . Massachusetts Executive Office of Public Safety 04. Massachusetts Juvenile Justice Data and Information December 2004 http://bit.ly/dNCUav</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part I crimes, also referred……… the general Massachusetts population.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fifth, Massachusetts model is key to effective deterrence of violent juvenile crime</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chamberlin [4] writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, in addition to providing……….. systematically and predictably. n232</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Massachusetts system is the best hope for solving violent crime by juveniles Chamberlin [5] concludes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In the wake of recent incidents…….punishment, deterrence and rehabilitation. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, I affirm. </span>


===Guantanamo Bay AC 1.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is important to note that typical punishment for juveniles sentenced in adult court is still separate from adults. Derrick Johnson writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Derrick Johnson, Healthy Families and Communities Subcommittee, U.S. House of Representatives Education and Labor Committee joint hearing with the Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA): Overview and Perspectives 2175 Rayburn H.O.B. July 12, 2007, 2:00 pm Testimony by Derrick Johnson, Vice-Chair Arizona Juvenile Justice Commission</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Value is Morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> States necessarily must use utilitarian ethics.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The only way to determine the desirability of two competing options is to compare their consequences. Examining morality using simple rules is doomed to fail.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Rorty, “Pragmatism, Relativism, and Irrationalism,” Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association, Vol. 53, No. 6. (Aug., 1980), pp. 717+719-738. Stable URL:[[http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0065-972X%28198008%2953%3A6%3C717%3APRAI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Plan Text: The USFG should transfer juveniles charged with war crimes and federal terrorism charges to federal criminal court. I reserve the right for clarification.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 1 is Due Process. Juveniles held at Guantanamo Bay are in a legal black hole that denies them due process rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, The US holds many juvenile detainees in the war on terror – they are tried in military tribunals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Al-Ahram Weekly Online International Eddition (Cairo News Paper) June 2008 [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2008/901/in3.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, this treatment of child prisoner is a unique violation of international norms for due process.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jo Becker. “Torture policy.” Salon. Jun 24, 2008 www.salon.com/news/feature/2008/06/24/juveniles_at_gitmo/index.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, Military Commissions are deeply flawed procedurally.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Human Rights Watch. “US: Revival of Guantanamo Military Commissions a Blow to Justice” May 15, 2009. [[http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/05/15/us-revival-guantanamo-military-commissions-blow-justice]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, moving to criminal court would solve several key due process concerns:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Human Rights Watch. “US: New Legislation on Military Commissions Doesn’t Fix Fundamental Flaws” October 8, 2009. [[http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/10/08/us-new-legislation-military-commissions-doesn-t-fix-fundamental-flaws]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, the commissions are unconstitutional.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> LT. COL. DARRELL VANDEVELD “Legal issues surrounding the military commissions system.” Hearing before the subcommittee on the constitution, civil rights, and civil liberties of the committee on the judiciary House of Representatives. One hundred eleventh Congress first session. July 8, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Respecting the Constitution is critical to human survival – looking to any other framework justifies human suffering and destroys agency. Henkin states:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Henkin, 88, Professor of Law at Columbia (Louis, Atlantic Community Qtly, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> No impact can justify violating the constitution – it is the ultimate constraint on government action. Carter writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stephen L. Carter, professor of law at Yale (Brigham Young University Law Review No. 3, p. 75 1-2) 1987</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 2 is Separation of Powers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Failure to check executive power risks nuclear extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Adler, 96 (David, professor of political science at Idaho State, The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy, p. 23-25)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 2/3 is Soft power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, trial in military commissions are not seen as legitimate legal instruments- their use hurts our international reputation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anthony D. Romero- executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union- February 16, 2010, Terrorists Are Criminals and Should be Tried in Civilian Court, US News and World Report, [[http://politics.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2010/02/16/terrorists-are-criminals-and-should-be-tried-in-civilian-court.html?PageNr=1]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> AND, US refusal to grant due process rights to detainees damages our soft power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Coleman Wagner- 2009, Soft Power and International Public Opinion: U.S Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War, [[http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And soft power is key to coalition building – it is critical to hegemony and to solving terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> James Steinberg, Dean of the Lyndon Johnson School of Public Affairs at Texas Austin, “Real Leaders Do Soft Power: Learning the Lessons of Iraq,” Washington Quarterly, Spring, 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Failure to prevent terrorism risks nuclear extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sid-Ahmed ‘4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> AND Soft power is key to US hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Joseph Nye, Distinguished Professor at Harvard and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government, “Recovering American Leadership,” Survival, March 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, collapse of hegemony risks multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Niall Fergusen, Professor of History at New York University, Foreign Policy, July / August 2004</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Juvenile detainees should be tried in federal criminal courts – this is key to both the rule of law and to promote US soft power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ACLU 4/27/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.aclu.org/national-security/discredited-military-commissions-resume-despite-persistent-flaws]]</span>


===Guantanamo AC 2.0=== 

===Unified Court AC 1.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I affirm</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I value morality because the word ought in the resolution implies an evaluation based on morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The standard is consequentialism for 2 reasons</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First the. State the state controls the criminal justice system - The government is forced to resolve conflicts in protecting rights. Utilitarianism is the only to do so:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But consider now that…….standard operating procedure. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, rationality requires evaluation of consequences</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. 1990 Ethics Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We have a duty………some to save many. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text: All criminal justice systems in the US, prosecution of juveniles accused of violent felonies in the juvenile court should be abolished and a unified court for trying all people accused of violent felonies should be created without regard for age. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1: Due process concerns</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, the Juvenile system is incapable of affording juveniles due process rights in their trials – the system must be abolished entirely</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Janet Ainsworth, Professor of Law at Seattle University, September 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(lexis: 36 B.C. L. Rev 927) Boston College Law Review</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The unhappy truth is….unified criminal justice system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Specifically denial of trial by jury denies juveniles a basic constitutional right</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kropf, Sara E. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/|Georgetown Law Journal]], ; Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/ai_n8866565/pg_19/?tag=content;col1]] ; June 1999</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is well settled in American………much of the Guidelines’ focus. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Respecting the Constitution is critical to human survival – looking to any other framework justifies the human suffering destroys the agency of any individual. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Henkin, 88, Professor of Law at Columbia (Louis, Atlantic Community Qtly, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lawyers, even constitutional lawyers,………policy itself as the end. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, The negatives arguments about the failure of the adult criminal just system do not link – a unified court completely reforms the criminal justice system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ainsworth [2]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The emotional heart of the…..touches, regardless of age. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Two: Essentialism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Separate juvenile justice system is predicated on an essentialist view of the child that obviates all other elements of identity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ainsworth [3] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The continued existence…..with the young. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the adult/child binary inherent in juvenile court retrenches all modernist binaries</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ainsworth [4]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As I have shown, the essentialist ideology……primary, privileged term. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, Essentialist identity construction and binaries are what make otherization possible </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Steven Talbot – Defense Science and Technology Organization 98</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.socresaonline.org.uk/13/1/17.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4.5 Within a sociological context……..whose advantage it is’ (Schulte-Tenckhoff, 2001, p.11).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Otherization makes infinite violence against the other possible – it is the root cause of all acts of violence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chernus, 91. Ira (PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER), Nuclear Madness: Religion and the Psychology of the Nuclear Age p 21-22</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The schizoid's insecurity is further….. we want to do to them. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Unified court is critical to overcome essentialism within the legal system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ainsworth [5]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The problems with the current juvenile justice system…….it with a nuanced continuum. </span>




==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Juvenile Court NC</span>**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I negate.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I advocate trying all juveniles in juvenile courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The standard is maximizing the protection of rights because: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The goal of the criminal justice system is prevention of crime in order to increase aggregate pleasure, through deterrence. Haist [1]:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mathew Haist – JD Northwestern – 09 Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology [[http://www.law.northwestern.edu/jclc/backissues/v99/n3/9903_789.Haist.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarian theories of criminal punishment…….incapcitate criminals or rehabilite. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1: Treating juveniles as adults in the criminal justice system ruins their lives.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Adult prosectuion casue irreparable harm. Klein [1] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Eric Klein - JD from Georgetown University 98 (American Criminal Law Review - 35 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 371) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Not only does juvenile transfer……. some education and training.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juveniles tried as adults are more likely to be beaten, raped, and commit suicide. Klein [2]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juveniles incarcerated in adult prisons…… scared of was being raped."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2: Transfer to adult courts increases recidivism. Pagnenelli [1] writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Enrico Pagnanelli – JD Candidate at Georgetown Law – 07 A44 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 175(American Criminal Law Review)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Transfer has a significant…… rates of recidivism post-transfer.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Statistics confirm. A survey of six comprehensive empirical studies concludes that transfer to adult courts increases recidivism. Redding [1]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Richard E. Redding. Juvenile Transfer Laws: An effective Deterrent to Delinquency. Officie of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. August 2008. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In sum, to date, six large-scale studies……challenge this pattern of findings. </span>

===__**McKiever CP**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Text: The United States Supreme Court should overturn the ruling in the “McKiever vs. Pennsylvania” case and, in its holdings, require all juveniles charged with violent crimes to be given trial by jury in the juvenile justice system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 1. Solvency: The counterplan solves the due process violations stemming from the lack of trial by jury in the juvenile justice system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kropf, Sara E. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/|Georgetown Law Journal]], ; Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/ai_n8866565/pg_19/?tag=content;col1]] ; [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/|Jun 19 ]][[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/|**99**]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Supreme Court... today's reality. "'64"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 2. Competition</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The counterplan is mutually exclusive because it extends the benefits of the Adult court to the Juvenile court. It cannot be permed, because it is impossible to try Juveniles in two courts at once.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation 3. Net Benefits</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Counterplan avoids all of the case turns.</span>

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Punishment K </span>**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. The affirmative in trying juveniles as adults equates punishment with justice – This is especially true because they engage in discourse that indicates how punishment for juveniles are just in the adult system because it is less severe </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David Brink – Law Prof at UC San Diego 94</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Texas Law Review, May, 82 Tex. L. Rev. 1555</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In response to perceived increases……….. responsibility for this wrong or harm.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Punishment cannot uphold justice – it ignores the needs of the victim and the criminal</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Randy Barnett – Harvard Law – 77</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://oll.libertyfund.org/index.php?option=com_staticxt&staticfile=show.php%3Ftitle=907&layout=html#chapter_99555</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Punishment (the deliberate harming of the criminal)…………… concerned: victim, criminal, and taxpayer.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Impact -- The affirmative’s focus on punishment breaks down communitarian ethics that are critical for human survival</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Vincent Punzo – Professor at St. Louis University – 78</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://oll.libertyfund.org/index.php?option=com_staticxt&staticfile=show.php%3Ftitle=907&layout=html#chapter_99555</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sociability and mutual support,……….. mutual aid to one other.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Framework -- Questions of representations come first – the language we use and the framing of issues is the most important question as it informs all our actions</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Doty – Professor of Political Science at Arizona State – 96 (Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations, University of Minnesota Press, Borderlines Series, ISBN 0816627622, p. 5-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This study begins with the premise…………. exercise of political, military, and economic power. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And fiat is illusory – the affirmatives advocacy will never be implemented – therefore the most important question in the debate is how the affirmative frames the question of justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alt: Rejection all forms of misguided discourse specifically to that of my opponent - if I win that their focus on punishment is harmful and misguided I should win the debate because it justices as to why their representations are false and wrong. </span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__Court Clog DA 1.0__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness - The shift away from criminalizing juvenile offenses is freeing up judicial resources now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Berkshire Eagle 12-11 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (“Juvenile crime declines”, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There's been a..........who go that route</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Wood ‘00</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Daniel B.-, March 9, Christian Science Monitor, “Juvenile Justice and Same-Sex Marriage”, www.cyc-net.org/today2000/today000309.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults will clog the court system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Wilson says allowing...........on crime deterrents</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Links</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Most juvenile crime is gang related</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Berkey-Gerard ‘1</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Mark-, March 5, Gotham Gazette, “Youth Gangs”, [[http://www.gothamgazette.com/iotw/gangs]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Youth gangs have............substantial criminal force</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prosecuting juvenile gang members as adults clogs the courts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lagorio ‘5</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Christine-, CBS News, May 9, “Gang Violence: A Federal Crime? It Would Be, Under House Bill With Tough Penalties, Including Death”, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2005/05/09/national/main694098.shtml]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The rapid spread........in federal courts</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C. Impact</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Clogging the courts undermines their ability to hear organized crime cases.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Washington Times ‘94</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Nov. 12)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Judge Reinhardt said............ has district judges</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Effective crackdowns on organized crime depends on quick court decisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anderson & Jackson ‘4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (William L.-, Assist. Prof. of Econ. @ Frostburg St. U., Candice E.-, Attorney with Judicial Watch, April 1, Reason Foundation, “Washington's biggest crime problem: the federal government's ever-expanding criminal code is an affront to justice and the Constitution”, Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Once a prosecutor........by fingering someone else</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Strong organized crime networks enable WMD terrorism by selling and smuggling weapons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jane’s Terrorist and Security Montior ‘00</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (June 19, “The New Threat of Organized Crime and Terrorism”, [[http://www.janes.com/security/international_%20security/news/jtsm/%20jtsm000619_1_n.shtml|http://www.janes.com/security/international_ security/news/jtsm/ jtsm000619_1_n.shtml]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Of course, ................ in continental Europe</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even a failed nuclear attack would risk extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sid-Ahmed ‘4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We have reached a point.............we will all be losers</span>

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Court Clog DA 2.0</span>**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: UNIQUENESS AND BRINK: The court system is being unclogged now</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1- Video conferencing</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Vertical News ‘10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(August 19, “Verizon Business Helps Courts, Prison Health Care Providers Put the Power of Video Collaboration to Work to Overcome Challenges”, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Courts grappling with jammed dockets....... more efficiently and effectively. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2 - New Appointments </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Clover Hearld 12-3-2010. "Urbanski nominated for Western District Judgship", Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">President Barack Obama has......substantial amount of work.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: LINKS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) The aff affirms the resolution treating juveniles as adults and tranferring their cases to the adult court, which will cause court clog due to an increase in the number of cases.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) The aff is making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults which will clog up the court system.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wood ‘00</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Daniel B.-, March 9, Christian Science Monitor, “Juvenile Justice and Same-Sex Marriage”, www.cyc-net.org/today2000/today000309.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults will clog the court system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wilson says allowing...........on crime deterrents</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: INTERNAL LINKS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) The courts are having to deal with a rising tide of bankruptcy cases now- adjudicating them fairly and effective is key to contain the foreclosure crisis </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Glenn 10-28 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Marin-, District Court Bankruptcy Judge, Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts Testimony “Mandatory Mediation Programs: Can Bankruptcy Courts Help End the Foreclosure Crisis?”, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Let me first give you.......mortgage foreclosure crisis. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) Clogging the courts breaks down the system making this impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hantler Sr. Fellow @ Pacific Research Institute ‘5</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Steven B.-, Director of Litigation Communication, Class Action, Consumer Litigation, and Legal Reform Group & Assist. General Counsel for Gov. and Regs. @ the Daimler-Chrysler Corporation, Sr. Fellow @ Pacific Research Institute, Mark A. Behrens, Partner in the Public Policy Group @ Shook, Hardy & Bacon, fmr. Assoc. Articles Ed. of the Vanderbilt L.R., Leah Lorber, Counsel in same Public Policy Group, fmr. Articles Ed. of the Indiana L.J., Spring, Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, “Access to Justice: Can Business co-exist with the Civil Justice System?: Is the ‘Crisis’ in the Civil Justice System Real or Imagined”, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ATRA has found that.....of civil cases settle. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND Failure to resolve the foreclosures crisis derail the current recovery sending the economy into a double dip and another recession</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thompson 9-2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Derek-, Daniel Indiviglio, The Atlantic Monthly, “5 Doomsday Scenarios for the U.S. Economy”, http://www.the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">atlantic.com/business/archive/2010/09/5-doomsday-scenarios-for-the-us-economy/62445)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Most signs point to......growth turns negative. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: IMPACT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S. economic decline goes global leading to resource conflicts, nuclear wars, and extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Newsflavor ‘9 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It may or may not.......in the 21st century.</span>

===Court Clog DA 3.0=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: UNIQUENESS AND BRINK: The court system is being unclogged now</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1- Video conferencing</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Vertical News ‘10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(August 19, “Verizon Business Helps Courts, Prison Health Care Providers Put the Power of Video Collaboration to Work to Overcome Challenges”, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Courts grappling with jammed dockets....... more efficiently and effectively. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2 - New Appointments </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Clover Hearld 12-3-2010. "Urbanski nominated for Western District Judgship", Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">President Barack Obama has......substantial amount of work.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: LINKS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) The aff affirms the resolution treating juveniles as adults and tranferring their cases to the adult court, which will cause court clog due to an increase in the number of cases.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) The aff is making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults which will clog up the court system.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wood ‘00</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Daniel B.-, March 9, Christian Science Monitor, “Juvenile Justice and Same-Sex Marriage”, www.cyc-net.org/today2000/today000309.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults will clog the court system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wilson says allowing...........on crime deterrents</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: INTERNAL LINKS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Court clog undermines immigration enforcement. O’Rourke </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’ROURKE ‘06 (Allen Thomas; J.D. Candidate – Harvard University, “Good Samaritans, Beware: The Sensenbrenner-King Bill and Assistance to Undocumented Migrants” 9 Harv. L. Rev. 195, Spring, l/n)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">The effects of Hispanics' increased………. Congress to reform immigration law.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Immigration enforcement key to prevent terrorism Herman</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Herman 2009. (Susan N.; Centennial Professor of Law – Brooklyn Law School, “Federal Criminal Litigation in 20/20 Vision” 13 Lewis & Clark L. Rev. 461, Summer, l/n)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There were some 155,694 federal criminal……. federal courts is not debatable.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">D: IMPACT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Unchecked terrorism will lead to extinction. Alexander</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alexander ’03 (Yonah, professor and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the United States, August 28, The Washington Times l/n)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">Last week's brutal suicide bombings……. there is no survival."</span>

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">The Cap K - Fickle Mistress </span>**__=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK#1: The affirmative’s elevation of justice above other values prop up the capitalist state and entrench capitalism Geras writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Norman Geras, Professor University of Manchester 1989</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/us/geras.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Principles of justice are,…….. for violating it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK #2: The criminal justice system sustains capitalism Fernandes writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Luis Fernandes, Doctoral Candidate at ASU 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.newformulation.org/4fernandez.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parenti starts by noting………“hard-line” social control.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Next, Impact and Alternative </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative is to refuse the affirmative. Our refusal opens up new space for change – the affirmative ensures extinction Herod 04 continues</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(James, Faculty at University of Massachusetts, Graduate of Columbia University, The Strategy described abstractly Section 6. of Getting Free, site.www.umb.edu, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is time to try to describe……. possibly even to extinction.</span>


===__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 130%;">Supreme Court CP</span>__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Counterplan Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule that juveniles within the juvenile justice system should receive the following rights the right to trial by jury and the guaranteed right to counsel and Supreme Court will rule that the waiver of juveniles to adult courts should be prohibited.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation one is competition</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the counterplan is mutually exclusive – the counterplan retain prosecution of juveniles in the juvenile justice system – this is the opposite of the affirmative who tries juveniles as adults</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, the counterplan is net beneficial – the cp avoids all of the disadvantages and case turns that are reasons trying juveniles as adults are bad.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Observation two is solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Supreme Court has the authority to reform the juvenile justice system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeffrey Butts and Adele Varrell – Urban Institute 98</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.urban.org/publications/307452.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In a series of cases.....of double jeopardy</span>

===Punishment CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I negate:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Both the aff and neg are punishing juveniles. The implication is that each side has a burden to show their punishment to be justified. This is the central question of the debate, and therefore, the value is just punishment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The value is just punishment. Chin Liew Tien summarizes the potential justifications for punishment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chin Liew Tien. “Crime and Punishment.” in. A companion to ethics Ed. Peter Singer. Blackwell. P. 366</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There are two main…….of the guilty is just. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Between these justifications, policy-makers have no choice but to defer to utility. Goodin writes: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Whatever its shortcomings as………..highly attractive proposition. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, the only way to determine the desirability of two competing options is to compare their consequences. Examining morality using simple rules is doomed to fail. Rorty explains:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Richard Rorty, “Pragmatism, Relativism, and Irrationalism,” Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association, Vol. 53, No. 6. (Aug., 1980), pp. 717+719-738. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0065-972X%28198008%2953%3A6%3C717%3APRAI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">So a second characterization of pragmatism……by obeying mechanical procedures. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, the value criterion is minimizing crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CP Text: Juveniles charged with violent felonies should be entered into rehabilitative programs that do not involve incarceration or institutionalization.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Competition: The Counterplan is mutually exclusive with the aff. This disposition is not given to adults convicted of violent felonies, meaning the aff can’t treat juveniles like adults and still do the counterplan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The net benefit is an overall reduction in crime and recidivism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint A) Punishment makes crime rates worse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Teens don’t sufficiently grasp the punitive implications of transfer laws, mitigating the chance for deterrence. Fagan explains:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jeffrey Fagan, Juvenile Crime and Criminal Justice: Resolving Border Dispute, The Future of Children, Volume 18, Number 2, Fall 2008, pp. 81-118, Published by Princeton University </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Across all these studies, the great......changes in behavior. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is empirically proven: Juveniles who are transferred to adult courts are about 1.4 times more likely to become recidivists than those who are tried in juvenile courts. Lanza-Kaduce writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Juvenile Transfer to Criminal Court Study: Final Report” Lonn Lanza-Kaduce [et.al] Charles E. Frazier Jodi Lane University of Florida and Donna M. Bishop Northeastern University , January 8, 2002, Florida Department of Juvenile Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Across all cases, 402 of the 950 cases…….reported across all cases. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A meta-survey of six comprehensive empirical studies confirms that transfer to adult courts increases recidivism. Redding writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Statistics confirm. A survey of six comprehensive empirical studies concludes that transfer to adult courts increases recidivism. Redding [1]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Richard E. Redding. Juvenile Transfer Laws: An effective Deterrent to Delinquency. Officie of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. August 2008. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In sum, to date, six large-scale studies……challenge this pattern of findings. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint B) Transfers deprive juveniles of rehabilitation and treatment, which is vital to preventing future crime. Mallett continues:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Christopher A. Mallett, Ph.D., J.D., LISW, Death is not different: The transfer of juveniles offneders to adult criminal courts, Cleveland State University, Criminal Law Bulletin, 2007. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Transferring juveniles to adult criminal ....... inmates significant disability needs. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">According to a metastudy that covered 117 different studies, treatment programs that rehabilitate without institutionalizing juveniles achieved a 40% reduction in recidivism, and were very effective with serious offenders. Mark Lipsey writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mark W. Lipsey, David B. Wilson, and Lynn Cothern. “Effective Intervention for Serious Juvenile Offenders”. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. April 2000. www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/ojjdp/181201.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The selection criteria for the 117……… scope of the meta-analysis..</span>

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">Competency CP </span>**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CP Text: All individuals below age 18 should automatically be subjected to a test of their competency to stand trial (CST) per the Dusky standard as a requirement for transfer out of juvenile courts to criminal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thomas Grisso explains the Dusky Standard:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, et al. “Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants”. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4, August 2003 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is well [Dusky vs US] established………(Dusky v. U.S., 1960; Godinez v. Moran, 1993).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Grisso [2] further notes that tests of incompetence due to psycho-social immaturity are part of Dusky, and are already mandatory in states such as Virginia. He writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The standard announced by…….automatically precede the adjudication. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: Competition: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the aff because it maintains the existence of juvenile trials for violent offenders found incompetent, which the aff cannot do.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. It is also mutually exclusive because it creates mandatory CST testing, which no adult court in the country does. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. The counterplan treats juveniles as a distinct group with additional rights. The aff can’t do that, since the resolution instructs them to try juveniles as adults.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Incompetent defendants are materially unable to defend themselves in court, which subjects them to unfair risk of punishment. Juvenile transfers to adult court typically have no protection against the transfer of incompetent defendants. Poythress writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Norman Poythress, Frances J. Lexcen, Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg. “The Competence-Related Abilities of Adolescent Defendants in Criminal Court”. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 30, No. 1 (Feb., 2006), pp. 75-92</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A process of judicial waiver…..are below age 14. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, this problem is not small, as juveniles are mentally incompetent for trials by adult standards at a very high rate. Grisso [3]:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our results indicate that……for competence to stand trial. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Juvenile incompetence directly makes them easier to convict. Grisso [4] writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moving beyond formal competence…….with gender, ethnicity, or SES. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The results of this vulnerability are clear: juveniles receive sentences 83% more severe than those received by similar adult offenders aged 20 to 25. Megan Kurlychek writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even after controlling.....in the adult system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, empirically, juveniles lose their defenses more often than young adults. Kurlychek continues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Setting age to 18…….longer sentence lengths. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The second net benefit is protectio nof mentally ill youths.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">60% of juveniles have some sort of mental disorder. Jason Washburn writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jason Washburn [Northwestern School of Medicine] et. al. “Psychiatric Disorders Among Detained Youths: A Comparison of Youths Processed in Juvenile Court and Adult Criminal Court” Psychiatric Services. September 2008 Vol. 59 No. 9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">These findings also suggest that…….(Apter, Plutchik, & van Praag, 1993; Costello, Benjamin, Angold, & Silver, 1991).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This contributes to the overwhelming rates of suicide among juveniles in the criminal system. James Austin writes:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">James Austin, Ph.D. Kelly Dedel Johnson, Ph.D. Maria Gregoriou, M.A. “A National Assessment: Juveniles in Adult Prisons and Jails”. Bureau of Justice Assistance. Institute on Crime, Justice and Corrections at The George Washington University and National Council on Crime and Delinquency. (Oct. 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Numerous studies have examined………. detention facilities (Community Research Center, 1980).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, negating better protects vulnerable juveniles.</span>

===Multi Systemic Therapy Programs(MST) CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CP Text: All juveniles charged with violent felonies should automatically be enrolled in multi-systemic therapy programs that will be fully funded by federal grants.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Competition:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the affirmative because no adults are treated with MST. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The counterplan is mutually exclusive because only juvenile courts have existing infrastructure to support MST</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The counterplan is artificially competitive.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Net Benefits: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, is Recidivism: MST is very effective at reducing recidivism. Mark Soler [1] explains MST’s effectiveness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CSPV has reviewed more……achieve other positive outcomes. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the program is much more cost effective than incarceration. Soler [2] continues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Blueprints programs are also…….$10.888 per dollar spent. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In contrast, transfer increases recidivism. Soler [3] explains</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Since the mid-1990s, however,…….determining factor in the recividism. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">.The affirmative subjects juveniles to the death penalty, which is unconstitutional. Mark Soler [4] explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The most profound legal……… crimes committed by juveniles.</span>

===__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16pt; line-height: 115%;">Voting DA </span>**__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK #1: Transfer to criminal court disenfranchises juveniles for substantial amounts of time. Burgess writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Amanda Burgess-Proctor, Kendal Holtrop, Francisco A. Villarruel. “Youth transferred to adult court: racial disparities”. Policy brief: Adultification, Vol. 2. Campaign for Youth Justice. Online: www.campaignforyouthjustice.org/documents/YouthTransferred.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The issue of voter disenfranchisement………. permanently barred from voting.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK #2 States permanently disenfranchise. Fellner writes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jamie Fellner; LOSING THE VOTE, The Impact of Felony Disenfranchisement Laws in the United States; [[http://www.hrw.org/legacy/reports/reports98/vote/index.html#TopOfPage]]; 1998</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Most remarkably, in fourteen…….. prison, probation or parole.</span>

====__**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Voting DA - Stigma Add-On </span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchisement politically isolates juveniles. Patillo writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mary Pattillo, David Weiman, and Bruce Western, Imprisoning America: The Social Effects of Mass Incarceration, Russel Sage Foundation, 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, a number of respondents……. and have a voice in it? </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchising juveniles makes them feel disconnected and more likely to recidivate. Arteaga explains</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juan Alberto Arteaga. “Juvenile (in)justice: congressional attempts to abrogate the procedural rights of juvenile defendants” Columbia Law Review (May, 2002) 102 Colum. L. Rev. 1051Having the right to vote……… becoming productive, law abiding citizens..</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stigmas have life-lonfsag impacts. Arteaga [2] writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">While the experience of juveniles……to a life of crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stigmas further the cycle of poverty Fagan explains </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jeffrey Fagan. “This will hurt me more than it hurts you: social and legal consequences of criminalizing delinquency.” (2002) 16 ND J. L. Ethics & Pub Poly</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The attachment of a………adults in work settings. </span>

====__**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Voting DA - Minorities Add On</span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This disenfranchisement has disproportionate impact in minority communities. Roberts explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dorothy E. Roberts, The Social and Moral Cost of Mass Incarceration in African American Communities, Stanford Law Review, Vol. 56, No. 5, 2004 Stanford Law Review Symposium: Punishment and Its Purposes (Apr., 2004), pp. 1271-1305</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A 1998 study by the Sentencing……..policies and demand services. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, minorities are subject at higher overall rates, Burgess 2 corroborates</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Amanda Burgess-Proctor, Kendal Holtrop, Francisco A. Villarruel. “Youth transferred to adult court: racial disparities”. Policy brief: Adultification, Vol. 2. Campaign for Youth Justice. Online: [[http://www.campaignforyouthjustice.org/documents/YouthTransferred.pdf|www.campaignforyouthjustice.org/documents/YouthTransferred.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although the issue of disenfranchisement,………. disenfranchisement of their members.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchising minority groups can have huge political impacts. Robert Jago explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Jago, Jane Marriott, Citizenship or Civic Death? Extending the Franchise to Convicted Prisoners, Web Journal of Current Legal Issues, 5, 2007, Jago – BA (Honors), MA in Philosophy, University of Surrey, Marriott – LLB (Honors), PhD, University of Surrey</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The relationship between……… a neutral policy (ibid).</span>

====**Voting DA - Due Process Add On**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchising felons decreases respect for the rule of law. Jago 2 explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Jago, Jane Marriott, Citizenship or Civic Death? Extending the Franchise to Convicted Prisoners, Web Journal of Current Legal Issues, 5, 2007, Jago – BA (Honors), MA in Philosophy, University of Surrey, Marriott – LLB (Honors), PhD, University of Surrey</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The UK government’s final justification……… with the criminal law” (ibid, p1109).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, it removes key rights to citizenship. Patillo 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mary Pattillo, David Weiman, and Bruce Western, Imprisoning America: The Social Effects of Mass Incarceration, Russel Sage Foundation, 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In discussions of the positive and……… and the spread of democratic governance. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchisement violates the constitution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Afi S. Johnson-Parris; Virginia Law Review, Vol. 89, No.1, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3202387]]</span>; Felon Disenfranchisement: The Unconscionable Social Contract Breached; Mar 2003,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Article 1, Section 10 of the …………. prohibited legislative determination of guilt.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The denial of the right to vote violates the ICCPR’s laws. Fellner writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jamie Fellner; Losing the Vote, The Impact of Felony Disenfranchisement Laws in the United States; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hrw.org/legacy/reports/reports98/vote/index.html#TopOfPage]]</span>; 1998</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The racially disproportionate impact….. curtailment of an important right. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchisement undermines due process – turns the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights 2010 http://www.lawyerscommittee.org/projects/voting_rights/page?id=0004L</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The 14th Amendment contains…. without providing adequate notice to voters.</span>

====**Voting DA - Retributive Justice Add On**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: Impacts: Disenfranchisement fails retributive justice Johnson-Parris [1] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Afi S. Johnson-Parris; Virginia Law Review, Vol. 89, No.1, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3202387]]</span>; Felon Disenfranchisement: The Unconscionable Social Contract Breached; Mar 2003,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchisement as practiced today……… consequence of a felony conviction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disenfranchisement fails retributive justice, con’t. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Johnson-Parris [2] concludes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The liquidated damages provision……. after the formal sentence is complete.</span>

===SKFTA DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A: Uniqueness and Brink:** SKFTA will pass now – There is GOP support and very low Dem opposition Ponnuru on Jan 31st</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ramesh Ponnuru, senior editor for National Review, January 31, 2011, (February 7, 2011 issue of National Review) Obama’s Bipartisan Opportunity, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/258159/obama-s-bipartisan-opportunity-ramesh-ponnuru</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Republicans’ takeover of the …….. principle of the Democratic party.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Link:** Treating juveniles as adults in the adult system kills Obama's political capital - this is regardless of whether or not the aff defends transfer. Trent in 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ryan L. Trent. "Juvenile (In)Justice." Associated Content from Yahoo! - Associatedcontent.com. 30 Dec. 2010. Web. 31 Dec. 2010. Ryan Trent is a Major in Criminal Justice from Omaha University] <<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/6150866/juvenile_injustice.html?cat=17]]</span>>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the recent years, ………. only credibility, but respect.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C: Internal Links:** Obama’s political capital is key to maintaining that coalition for SKFTA - Democrats and the Tea Party could defect Wharton on Jan 12th </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wharton- Online Business Journal – January 12, 2011, Editorial Post – including the Deupty Dean & Executive Director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Business School, U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?, http://bit.ly/facM5r</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Tea Party Factor During …………. powers of the Federal Reserve Bank </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ratification of SKFTA is key to the alliance with South Korea - failure makes the US look like its withdrawing commitments Cooper 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">William H. Cooper- Specialist in International Trade and Finance @ CRS- November 12, 2010, The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although the FTA’s utility ……. ather than economic, relations.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lack of US commitment to alliance risks North Korean invasion and war Bechtol in 06</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bechtol 6—IR, Marine Corps Command and Staff College. Former Intelligence Officer at the Defense Intelligence Agency. Former Senior Analyst for Northeast Asia in the Intelligence Directorate, Pentagon. PhD (Bruce, Force Restructuring in the ROK-US Military Alliance: Challenges and Implications, International Journal of Korean Studies, Fall/Winter 2006, Vol. X, No. 2, CIAO, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The US needs to maintain…… the aggression of North Korea.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**D: Impact** A Korean war would lead to extinction Hamel-Green and Hayes in 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Michael, Dean and Prof. Faculty of Arts – Victoria U., and Peter, Nautilus Institute, Special Report 100-001, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">At worst, there is the…….. consideration from the international community.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SKFTA DA 2.0(Updates) </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: Uniqueness and Brink: </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[ ] South Korea Free Trade Agreement(SKFTA) will pass now – Needham from Yesterday </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Vicki Needham; 4/15/11. Congressional delegation heading to South Korea later this month; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/156331-congressional-delegation-heading-to-korea-later-this-month]]</span>; </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Several lawmakers will travel………. have broad congressional support. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[ ] SKFTA will pass now – separately from Colombia – and Obama’s political capital is high and key Inside U.S. Trade on 3-25 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inside U.S. Trade, 3/25 (“U.S. FLOATS DETAILED LABOR RIGHTS PROPOSAL TO COLOMBIA FOR VETTING,” 3/25/11, Factiva, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S. private-sector sources….. vote occurs, sources said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[ ] SKFTA is in the bag – experts agree on this issue Bhagwati 3/21 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bhagwati, 3/21 – Professor of Economics and Law at Columbia University and Senior Fellow in International Economics at the Council on Foreign Relations (3/21/11, Jagdish, Shanghai Daily, “Trade talks akin to Monty Python's dead parrot,” Factiva)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">President Barack Obama is presumably…….. this window of opportunity would be tragic.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SKFTA DA 3.0(Updates) </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Rehabilitation/Reform Link) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Link** – Rehab approach and Soft on crime kills political careers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bryan Joseph and Tony Saavedra; Orange County Register; “Tough-on-crime stance emptied California's pocketbook”; Jan 8, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Legislative Republicans, however,…….. their political careers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tough on crime boosts, while soft on crime kills political capital</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Keith Swisher; “PRO-PROSECUTION JUDGES: “TOUGH ON CRIME,” SOFT ON STRATEGY, RIPE FOR DISQUALIFICATION; Arizona Law Review; 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As suggested briefly above… underlying judicial philosophies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Shackles Link): The removal of Shackling policies is a clear link because the policies are designed to intimidate the juveniles and that their trial is indeed a criminal proceeding, while removing them takes a softer approach, which is what will kill Obama’s political capital.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Link:** Removing the shacking policy Soft on crime kills political careers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bryan Joseph and Tony Saavedra; Orange County Register; “Tough-on-crime stance emptied California's pocketbook”; Jan 8, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Legislative Republicans, however,…….. their political careers.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tough on crime boosts, while soft on crime kills political capital</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Keith Swisher; “PRO-PROSECUTION JUDGES: “TOUGH ON CRIME,” SOFT ON STRATEGY, RIPE FOR DISQUALIFICATION; Arizona Law Review; 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As suggested briefly above… underlying judicial philosophies.</span>

===Hallow Hope DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A: Link:** Liberal Court decisions are like flypaper, they drag social movements from congress to the courts, where they fail. This turns solvency for the case and destroys social movements</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rosenberg, Associate Professor Political Science @ U Chicago Law 1991, Gerald N The Hollow Hope, p. 340</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If this is the case, then there….. only an illusion of change.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: Impacts are two-fold: </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Effective social movements are critical to prevent nuclear annihilation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leslie Paul Thiele, Prof. of Political Science at Univ. of Florida, 1993, ALTERNATIVES, " Making Democracy Safe for the World: Social Movements and Global Politics" Roskoski, p. 295-296 //VT98-am</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hobbesian and liberal convictions……. wisdom consists in being wise in time. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Movements are critical to environmental protection and planetary survival</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lewis Assistant Professor in the school of Environment and the Center for International Studies at Duke 1994 Martin Green Delusions, p. 250 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In conclusion, environmentalism's challenge….. ranging political consensus.</span>


===I-Law DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A: Uniqueness and Brink:** The US is committed to international law in the status quo. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Koh 10 (Harold Hongju, Legal Advisor US Department of State, Annual meeting of the American Society of International Law, Speech, Washington, DC, March 25, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.state.gov/s/l/releases/remarks/139119.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To them I would answer……. those standards, including ourselves.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Koh [2] continues</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">By international justice and…… in a new global century.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Link:** The sentencing of juveniles to LWOP or the death penalty, treating them as adults, in the criminal justice system is against international law. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Adepoju 07—(Akin Adepoju, cum laude graduate of Roger Williams University School of Law former Marshal, Juvenile Death Sentence Lives On…, Trends and Issues in Constitutional Law, Vol. 2, 2007, http://www.scribd.com/doc/10479463/Juvenile-Death-Sentence-Lives-On-Even-After-Roper-v-Simmons-by-Akin-Adepoju </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Convention on the Rights of……. reintegration of the child intosociety.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C: Spillover** – Whether or not international law can be incorporated domestically is depending on the precedent of juvenile death penalty. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bradley 2002 [Curtis A , Richard A. Horvitz Professor of Law and Professor of Public Policy Studies – Duke Univeristy, “The juvenile death penalty and international law”, Duke Law Review, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-102105768.html]]</span>] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although important on its own….. international human rights law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**D: Impacts**: The only alternative to international law is genocide and nuclear war. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Shaw 01 (10/3/01 Martin Shaw Professor of International Relations and Politics at the University of Sussex. “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.martinshaw.org/unfinished.pdf]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The new politics of international…….. of international relations and politics, are intertwined.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Effective I-Law solves every impact – US Commitment and Environmental Research 2002 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Institute for Energy and Environmental Research 02—(and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 (Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> International security can best be…….. security challenges of the 21st century </span>

===Congress CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP Text:** The US Congress should pass and the President should sign into law legislation requiring trial by jury for all juvenile and that all juveniles should be tried in juvenile court.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Observation 1: Competition</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Mutually Exclusive</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Net Benefits </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Observation 2: Solvency**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, congressional legislation that contradicts Supreme Court rulings has the effect of an overrule – we solve 100%</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Linder, UMKC Law School, 2011 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/conlaw/powers13th14th15th.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Another provision of the 1965 Voting….. Supreme Court precedent.</span>


===Stare Decis DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A: Uniqueness**: The Court has refused to overrule major rights causes to preserve precedent </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagel 2002 – Professor of Con Law at University Colorado. Implosion of American Federalism. Page 39.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is true, on the other hand, that in…….. disagreement at the local level.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Link** - Overturning Supreme Court decisions undermines Court legitimacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Broadwater 2002 – Ph.D. American History at Vanderbilt. Taking Its Toll: Partisan Judging and Judidical Review – The Journal of Appellate Practice and Process Pring </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yet, it is the classical….. than another round of partisan warfare.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C:Internal Link:** Even minor court decisions like the aff have a hgue impact on court legitimacy. Btoadwater [2] continues </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The literature hardly supports the popular……. craft: impartiality, scholarship, and moderation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Decline in court legitimacy undermines American cohesions collapsing U.S. global leadership </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagel [2] furthers </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The full scope of this vision…… disintegration of the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**D: Impact:** Collapse of Leadership risks global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zalmay Khalilzad, Defense Researcher at RAND, Washington Quarterly, Spring, 1995 lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Global Leadership Under the ……. multipolar balance of power system.</span>

===Constitutionality DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A: Link:** Giving the death penalty to juveniles violates the 8th Amendment ban on cruel unusual punishment </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nina Totenberg- NPR- March 2, 2005, Supreme Court Ends Death Penalty for Juveniles, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4518051</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Supreme Court on Tuesday……. in the majority opinion.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B: Impact:** Upholding the Constitution is critical to human survival</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Henkin, 88, Professor of Law at Columbia (Louis, Atlantic Community Qtly, Spring)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lawyers, even constitutional lawyers….. committed to human survival.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No impact can justify violating the constitution – it is the ultimate constraint on government action</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carter 87 Stephen L. Carter, professor of law at Yale (Brigham Young University Law Review No. 3, p. 75 1-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But constitutionalism assigns enormous…….. the policy itself as the end.</span>


===Dual Max CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP TEXT:** The Supreme Court should rule that Juvenile Courts must provide due process rights in accordance with a “dual-maximal” approach which combines the fundamental fairness and functional equivalence doctrines. These doctrines will be applied as specified in the MELTON 1 Evidence Below.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: Solvency </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Dual Maximal approach to due process rights provides equivalent protection to juveniles, and enhanced rights when necessary. Gary Melton 1 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gary Melton. “Taking Gault Seriously: Toward a New Juvenile Court”; 68 Neb. L. Rev. 174 (1989) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">After Gault, it is indisputable……… protection automatically available to adults."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B is Competition: </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Mutually Exclusive </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Net Benefits</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C is Net Benefits: </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Dual Maximal Doctrine would provide juveniles extended 5th amendment rights. Melton [2] writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although the privilege against……… a watered-down form of justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Automatic deployment of counsel and extended right to silence would prevent false confessions. And, False Confessions are a major source of false convictions in juvenile court—25% of juveniles can be convinced to falsely confess. Goldstein writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Goldstein N.E.S., Condie L.O., Kalbeitzer R., Osman D., Geier J.L. “Juvenile offenders' Miranda rights comprehension and self-reported likelihood of offering false confessions.” (2003) Assessment, 10 (4), pp. 359-369.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rates of self-reported likelihood……. likelihood of falsely confessing).</span>


===Judicial Waiver CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP Text:** Discretionary judicial waivers should be used to transfer juveniles on a case-by-case basis, rather than using automatic or mandatory transfers.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sellers and Arrigo describe judicial waivers:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Adolescent transfer, developmental maturity, and adjudicative competence: an ethical and justice policy inquiry, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://puffin.harker.org:2084/pqdlink?RQT=318&pmid=14571&TS=1292482947&clientId=14606&VInst=PROD&VName=PQD&VType=PQD|Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology]]</span>. Chicago: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://puffin.harker.org:2084/pqdlink?RQT=572&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD&pmid=14571&pcid=45545321&SrchMode=3|Spring 2009]]</span>. Vol. 99, Iss. 2; pg. 435, 53 pgs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">During the 1960s and early 1970s……. the offender's prior record.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B: Competition: </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Mutually Exclusive</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Net Benefits </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C: Net Benefits:</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1: Judicial waivers provide a hearing to address psychological maturity and amenability to treatment, which mandatory waiver laws do not. Sellers and Arrigo [2] continue</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The various ways by which a……. guidelines of the waiver statute.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2: Automatic waivers make adjudications based on the offense with no formal procedural guidelines. Decisions are made with inadequate access to offender records and are often based on subjective factors. Sellers and Arrigo [3] further </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Statutory exclusion laws expose….. and level of risk or threat.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Judicial waiver is superior to legislative waiver, solving all of the aff impacts about adult courts. Klein concludes </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Eric Klein – JD from Georgetown University 98 (American Criminal Law Review - 35 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 371)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">While the current system has….. judicial waiver than in previous years.</span>
===Prisons DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">**A: Uniqueness:** The Supreme Court will force California to decrease prison population by 40000 inmates in 2 years.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Julie Small. “US Supreme Court likely to uphold California prison population cap”. Dec. 12th, 2010. Southern California Public Radio. Online: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scpr.org/news/2010/12/01/us-supreme-court-likely-uphold-california-prison-p/]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Last year three federal judges….. a perfectly reasonable decision.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">California’s Prison Population is already declining and would reach compliance. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">“Briefing Report: California Prisons - Contemplating Early Release”. The California Republican Caucus. 1/26/2011. Online: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cssrc.us/publications.aspx?id=10214]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">When considering the possibility…….. the average cost of incarceration. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">**B is the Link:** 20% of all violent felonies are committed by juveniles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Online Lawyer Source <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.onlinelawyersource.com/criminal_law/juvenile/statistics.html]]</span> “Juvenile Crime Statistics”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">There are currently about seventy…….. percent for aggravated assault.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">And 56% of all prisoners in California Jails were convicted of violent crimes. Mike Reynolds writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Mike Reynolds. “The myth of low-risk state prisoner” ThreeStrikes.org http://www.threestrikes.org/pdf/Myth%20of%20the%20Low-Risk%20State%20Prisoner_09.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Contrary to the Bee report…….. [amounts to] 88,091 [prisoners.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">**C: Impact:** Early release is awful for crime because 67% of those released reoffend. The American Legislative Exchange Council writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">A Plan to Reduce Prison Overcrowding and Violent Crime: “Conditional Post-Conviction Release Bond Act,” American Legislative Exchange Council: The State Factor, Jeffersonian Principles in Action, Washington, DC 20036, July 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Sadly, the current system…….. orders to reduce overcrowding.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">The impact of this argument is huge: given 18000 released prisoners, the 67% recidivism rate results in 12000 additional felonies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">And this results in reduced deterrence. Rushford continues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Michael Rushford. “The false promise and lethal consequences of releasing inmates.” Criminal Justice Legal Foundation. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cjlf.org/publctns/InmateReleases.pdf]]</span>. Jun 30, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">The judicial release order……. an increase in crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">Finally, Even if non-violent property offenders are the ones that get released early, they are still likely to commit violent crimes when they get out. Rushford [2] concludes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 95%; line-height: 115%;">The proponents of the new inmate……. a significant increase in violent crime.</span>


===Referendum CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP Text:** The USFG should hold a binding national referendum on whether juveniles charged with violent felonies should be tried as adults in the criminal justice system.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">or</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The USFG should hold a binding national referendum on [INSERT PLAN TEXT] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Observation 1:** Competition</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Mutually Exclusive </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Net Benefits </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Observation 2:** Solvency </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Trying juveniles as adults is popular with the public by a 20 point margin</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sussman ‘1 (Dalia-, May 8, ABC News, “Poll: Most Back Adult Punishment for Juveniles”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://abcnews.go.com/US/story?id=%2090349&page=1|http://abcnews.go.com/US/story?id= 90349&page=1]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fifty-five percent of……….Yes No May 6 55% 34%</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Observation 3:** Net Benefits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The CP spillsover and send a signal that bolsters global democratization </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Magleby Chair Poli Sci BYU ‘95 (David B., Winter, University of Colorado Law Review, “Governing by Initiative: Let the Voters Decide? An Assessment of the Initiative and Referendum Process”, 66 U. Colo. L. Rev. 13, Lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The United States is…. on the outcomes of these plebiscites.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Democracy prevents nuclear war and reduces the overall risk of interstate violence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Joshua Muravchik, The American Enterprise Institute, July 11-14, 2001, Democracy and Nuclear Peace, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf|www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The greatest impetus for world…… an exception that proves the rule.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And independently the obligation to allow individuals to decide what is done in their names is a prior question- defines the interests by which consequences are judged</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ian Budge- Prof @ U. of Essex- ’96, The New Challenge of Direct Democracy, p. 11-12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">However, one can also see possible….. considerable overall validity.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">EU Relations DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A. Uniqueness and Brink:** US-EU relations increasing now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Associated Press- 3.07.11, Joe Biden in Finland en route to Moscow, Forbes.com, http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2011/03/07/general-eu-europe-biden_8342174.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S. Vice President Joe……. Finnish hosts, aides said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, US – EU relations are fragile </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">European Voice 11/11/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fragile state of the……while improving relations with Russia. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B. Link –** the EU opposes the death penalty for juveniles it will disrupt relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Delegation of the European Commission to the US 05http://www.eurunion.org/legislat/DeathPenalty/ropervsimmonsluxosce.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The European Union welcomes…. abolition of the death penalty.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C. Impact:** Strong US-EU relations are critical to stop global WMD conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hamilton 3 (Daniel, Director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations – Johns Hopkins University, FDCH Congressional Testimony, 6-11, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If our efforts in these……. and pursue it together.</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

﻿



__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 120%;">View Counter: </span>**__
[[media type="custom" key="9493880"]]


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>