[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===India/Pakistan Plan AC=== 

OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:
V: Morality

Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.
Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

"But the human...or go forward."

Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.
Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

"This question brings...to have it?"

Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.

Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29

"The fact that...as an individual."

S: Treating people as ends in themselves.

OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament

ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:

The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers

Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.

"In South Asia...restriction on India."

A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.
Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.

"What is morally...kind of case."

B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.
Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.

"What is also...about to do."

ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:

A) Accidental Launch is likely.
Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service

"In addition to...strike from India."

B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE
Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.

"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."

C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.
V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.

"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."

Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.
Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”

"Even a limited...a global scale."

ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:

The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.
Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.

"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."

Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.
J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.

"in terms of...might be used."

Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.
Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.

"Last week's brutal...global security concerns."

REALISM K


<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">A) Links </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">B) Impact: ethnic cleansing </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">George, Jim. Discourses of Global Politics (1994), 149. "It is worth pondering... and the eradication of (anarchical" difference." </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">Violence: </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">Shore, Zachary. Orbis (Spring 2003), 359. "Imagine a world... world we should seek?" </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">C) Alt </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">Endorse ethical foreign policy. Wendt, Alexander. “Anarchy is what states make of it” International Organization 46.2 (Spring 1992). "Sovereignty norms are now... conditions of existence." </span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>



==Negative== 
===Security Dilemma NC=== 

Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."


In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"But let us...for disarmament research."

The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.
Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.

"Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."

preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.

Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2

"War accounts for..of our civilization." 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The risks to the population are growing rapidly. Something must be done.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov—December 2001. [Strathdee is at the Department of Epidemiology, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhsph.edu/|Bloomberg School of Public Health]]</span>, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov is a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Effectiveness of Needle Exchange Programs: A Review of the Science and Policy. AIDS Science, Vol. 1, No. 16.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "multiperson use of...epidemic takes hold."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Total HIV/AIDS deaths and mortality rates in injection drug users are high. In just 33 States, over 8 years, nearly 6,000 HIV/AIDS deaths were caused by injection drug use.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anna Grigoryan, H. Irene Durant, Tonji Durant, and Xiangming Wei—13 February 2009. [Grigoryan, H. I. Durant, and T. Durant work in the Centers for Disease Control Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. Wei works at the McKing Consulting Corporation]. Late HIV Diagnosis and Determinants of Progression to AIDS or Death after HIV Diagnosis among Injection Drug Users, 33 US States, 1996–2004. PLoS ONE, Vol. 4, No. 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "of 232,685 persons...IDU's had survived."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "From the year...of HCV acquisition."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: </span>


Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Affirmative-NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED]]NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "SEP's have been...infected with HIV."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--GLENBROOKS UPDATES**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even if people would will a deontological maxim, universalizability would require a consequentialism of rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS THE HARMS:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> n the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding and subsidies for public and private needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession and acquisition of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange facilities. Sterile needles and injection equipment will be exchanged for used and dirty needles in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative]]Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-SOCIAL MESSAGING NC]]SOCIAL MESSAGING NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Institutions of criminal justice play a unique role in society; they vindicate the moral authority of the community as against the individual’s assertion of moral superiority to shared moral sensibilities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminals victimize the community writ large by placing themselves above the law.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We tend by...as he wishes."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment conveys moral censure and so rejects the offender’s assertion of his own moral superiority.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 308.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "so how can...offender's wrongful action."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment vindicates the rights of the victim and communicates a moral message to society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "moreover, the censure...up requiring it."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that the public health paradigm shifts the focus away from punishment and so fails to vindicate the rights of society and the victim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>

== == 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> [[#November-December-Affirmative-NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED]]START DA </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass by the end of the year.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As President …over national security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. Obama’s capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Unfortunately, the polarizing …votes is not a given.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Without political capital, opposition can’t be solved and START will never pass.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hurlburt 10 (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Jonathan Cohn falls …they are not."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> START DA-UPDATES </span>=== 
A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass.

Max Bergmann—4 November 2010. [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics
"Despite popular perception...a likely yes."



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. It’s going to take a powerful and focused effort by Obama to ensure that New START gets through
Travis Sharp—28 August 2009. [Military Analyst at The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation]. Local Priorities vs. National Interests in Arms Control. Bulletin of The Atomic Scientists.
"While beliefs about..the White House."

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-T: ILLEGAL]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: ILLEGAL</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Illegal means prohibited by law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Illegal.” Law Dictionary. Baron’s Educational Series, Inc. 2003. Accessed from Answers.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Against the Law..injunctions, is illegal."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION: The AFF legalizes drugs, making drugs legal rather than illegal.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on fairness.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important. </span>

=== === 
=January-February= 
== == 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-DUE PROCESS AC]]DUE PROCESS AC**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE: Charged means the time between indictment and conviction or acquittal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "To make an...in the indictment"</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Value: Justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> VC: maintaining consistency with the law</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Since the 1980's...criminal history score."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CONTENTION 1: The juvenile ustice system is unable to protect due process.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Although the right...from public scrutiny."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "forty years after...in resources remain."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "By most accounts...to receive services."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Perhaps the most...look as follows."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "As Butts and ...criminal justice system."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-JURIES AC]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JURIES AC</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Value: Justice</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> VC: maintaining consistency with the constitution</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Legitimacy of legal system must come from political discourse, not moral philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The same reason...on moral discourse"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Must recognize procedural obligations of various actors. It is the supreme court's duty to strike down laws inconsistent with the constitution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (), 1 Cranch 137, p. 175-177.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. The rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy because protection of autonomy empowers legal subjects to use public autonomy in democratic process, which legitimizes the law</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "However well grounded...over its counterpart"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The constitution thus constructs the medium of law itself. And, the supreme court is structurally responsible for upholding the obligation.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. Using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> THUS, THE PLAN:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The U.S. Supreme Court will overturn its decision in McKeiver v. Pennsylvaniaas as it applies to those tried with violent felonies on the grounds that the 6th and 14th amendments to the U.S. Constitution guarantee the right to trial by jury for those juveniles.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CONTENTION ONE: The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The McKeiver decision assigned constitutional rights based on arbitrary classifications of age, and the distinctino of juvenile trials as civil while adult trials as criminal is misguided because:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> a. supreme court precedent indicates there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "since the 1980's...criminal history score"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CONTENTION TWO: Trial by jury is required by the ‘fundamental fairness’ test for the 14th amendment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even the majority opinion in McKeiver concedes that the appropriate standard for determining what procedures are required for juveniles by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment is “fundamental fairness.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528 (1971), p. 543.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "All the litigants..are not inflexible"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Trial by jury is the only way to protect the fundamental fairness of criminal proceedings.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. the ability to choose a jury checks back for bias in a way that doesn’t exist with judges.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "in addition the...a bench trial"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. judge trials hurt defendants chances to appeal.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Denial of the...law on appeal"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. The possibility of a jury trial improves the fairness of the charging decision and checks the power imbalance in plea negotiations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet E. Ainsworth [Professor, Seattle University School of Law]. “Youth Justice in a Unified Court: Response to Critics of Juvenile Court Abolition.” 1995. Boston College Law Review. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. P. 943</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nor can the...possesses as leverage."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 4.Trial by judges perverts the “reasonable doubt” standard, makes conviction easier, and warps the judicial process.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Although the right...from public scrutiny."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 5. Unlike juries, judges may be biased by knowledge of a defendant’s criminal history.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Victor Streib [Professor of Law, Ohio Northern University; and Senior Lecturing Fellow, Duke Law School], “Intentional Wrongful Conviction of Children,” Chicago-Kent Law Review, Vol. 85:1 (2010), pp 172.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "There is a...encountering these pressures."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-JURIES AC--TOC UPDATES]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JURIES AC--TOC UPDATES</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ought is duty.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">“ought.” The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. 2005. Oxford University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> V: Government Obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Government must follow constitutional legal norms.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, legal norms are exclusively constitutive of government agency. Government is a socially constructed proxy for the agency of its constituents; it only “acts” in the sense that it manifests the legal norms generated by democratic deliberation.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> Second, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">only a system of legally institutionalized norms can underpin a functional social structure.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 12px;"> Jurgen Habermas—1996. [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.]. Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy. Translated by William Rehg. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, pp. 114</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">The move from...subject is unburdened."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, only legal norms derive from the kind of procedural rationality necessary to legitimize norms in an irreducibly pluralistic society.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jurgen Habermas—1 October 1986. [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.]. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Law and Morality. Translated by Kenneth Baynes. The Tanner Lectures on Human Virtues. Delivered at Harvard University, pp. 245.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> S: Maintaining Consistency With The Constitution</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fourth, <span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">the rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy. Constitutional law constructs a legal subject – the citizen – who both participates in democratic legislation and is subject to the rule of law. Thus democracy and constitutional legal principles mutually presuppose one another.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Jurgen Habermas—1998 [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">However well-grounded...over its counterpart."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **OBSERVATION TWO IS THE ADVOCACY:**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In //Duncan v. Louisiana//, the Supreme Court held that defendants charged with non-petty offenses must be afforded the right to a trial by jury under the 6th and 14th Amendments. However, in //McKeiver v. Pennsylvania// the Court departed from this rule by creating an exception for defendants tried in juvenile courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **THUS, THE PLAN:** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">THE UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT WILL OVERTURN ITS DECISION IN </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">MCKEIVER V. PENNSYLVANIA </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-transform: uppercase;">AS IT APPLIES TO TOPICALLY DESIGNATED PERSONS ON THE GROUNDS THAT THE 6TH AND 14TH AMENDMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION GUARANTEE THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY TO THOSE DEFENDANTS. I RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.</span> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CONTENTION ONE:** The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(a) </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Close examination of Supreme Court precedent indicates that there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding"</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "since the 1980's...criminal history score"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The reasoning in...granted to juveniles"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">overturning //McKeiver// is most consistent with precedent.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Kerrin C. Wolf—2003. [QUALS]. Justice by Any Other Name: The Right to a Jury Trial and the Criminal Nature of Juvenile Justice in Louisiana, 12 Wm. & Mary Bill of Rts. J. 275.</span> "The Juvenile justice...a majority opinion."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stare Decisis</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> is not absolute.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Sixth amendment violations precede all arguments about the desirability or fairness of jury trials. </span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-REHAB AC]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">REHAB AC</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only by attempting to rectify inequalities and political conditions that contribute to societal ills, can the government uphold justice. The freedom of agents is only relevant if the state acts to fairly guarantee and respect that freedom.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Judith Shklar—1984. [Political Theorist and John Cowles Professor of Government at Harvard University]. The Liberalism of Fear. Ordinary Vices. Harvard University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Nevertheless, there is...one at that."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Retributive philosophy masks the social, economic, and political underpinnings of crime. Holding individuals exclusively accountable and blameworthy for their offenses prevents adequate reparation of the injustices that fuel criminal behavior.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeffrey Reiman. “A Radical Perspective on Crime.” Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This is the...criminality or injustice."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instead, government should take responsibility for the social conditions that it has allowed and the role it has played in creating those conditions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barbra Hudson—2003. [Professor of Law, Director of Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice at Lancashire Law School, University of Central Lancashire]. Understanding justice: an introduction to ideas, perspectives, and controversies in modern penal theory. McGraw Hill International.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Cullen and Gilbert...a specific case."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Redressing Social Disempowerment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> THUS, THE ADVOCACY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the United States, all adults along with juveniles charged with violent felonies should be tried and treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitative treatment in the form of cognitive behavioral and multisystemic therapies. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rehabilitation in the form of cognitive behavioral programs involve several strategies to address criminal behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The most common...therapist-patient relationship."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention One: Rehabilitation with CBT and MST is the only model of treatment that can accurately account for and respect both the decisions of offenders and the societal foundations of crime.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the criminal justice system does not engage in sufficient rehabilitation. It is punitive for both juveniles and adults.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "b. State Juvenile Courts...and adversarial proceeding."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, Denial of rehabilitation disregards the worth of criminals and leaves criminals worse off than when they entered prison. Only rehabilitation can reintegrate offenders into society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Edgardo Rotman—1986. [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires]. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 77, No. 4, pp. 1023-1068.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The humanistic model...socially-deprived offender."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention Two: CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even if interventions...the interventions "doubles."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These results have been consistently replicated for juvenile offenders as well.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mark W. Lipsey—2009. [Peabody Research Institute, Vanderbilt University]. The Primary Factors that Characterize Effective Interventions with Juvenile Offenders: A Meta-Analytic Overview. Victims and Offenders. Vol. 4, pp. 124-147.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The apparent effectiveness...effects on recidivism."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "there are, however...interventions they initiate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year. Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade.</span>

Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427.




The direct harm of recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.


"The effects of...cannot be understood."



Moreover, the paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve.
Jeff Ferrell—1998. [Department of Criminal Justice, Northern Arizona University]. Against the Law: Anarchist Criminology. Social Anarchism, No. 25.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"As the interactionist/labeling...falsely, to solve."</span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-REHAB AC--UPDATES]]REHAB AC--UPDATES**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Government Obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The independence of humans creates the ability for people to set their own ends. This status as a being that can determine their purposes is the foundational principle of ethical obligation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Arthur Ripstein—2009. [Professor of Law and Philosophy at The University of Toronto]. Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy. Harvard University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "the core idea...you will pursue."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, the traditional understanding of freedom as a negative liberty is misguided. Arbitrary interference, not the presence or absence of coercion itself, underpins domination.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Phillip Pettit—1982. [Fmr. Professorial Fellow in Social and Political Theory at the Research School of Social Sciences, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_National_University|Australian National University]]</span>. Recipient of numerous honors, including an <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honorary_doctorate|honorary doctorate]]</span> from the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_University_of_Ireland|National University of Ireland]]</span>. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurance_Rockefeller|Laurance Rockefeller]]</span>University Professor of Politics and Human Values at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_University|Princeton University]]</span>]. Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government. Oxford University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The grievance I...interference over another."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> State interference is legitimate so long as it tracks the general interests of society and the individuals being coerced. It is not domination because it is not arbitrary.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Phillip Pettit—1982. [Fmr. Professorial Fellow in Social and Political Theory at the Research School of Social Sciences, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_National_University|Australian National University]]</span>. Recipient of numerous honors, including an <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honorary_doctorate|honorary doctorate]]</span> from the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_University_of_Ireland|National University of Ireland]]</span>. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurance_Rockefeller|Laurance Rockefeller]]</span>University Professor of Politics and Human Values at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_University|Princeton University]]</span>]. Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government. Oxford University Press.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "under this conception...not represent domination."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Retributive philosophy masks the social, economic, and political underpinnings of crime. Holding individuals exclusively accountable and blameworthy for their offenses prevents adequate reparation of the injustices that fuel criminal behavior.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeffrey Reiman. “A Radical Perspective on Crime.” Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "This is the...criminality or injustice."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instead, government should take responsibility for the social conditions that it has allowed and the role it has played in creating those conditions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Barbra Hudson—2003. [Professor of Law, Director of Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice at Lancashire Law School, University of Central Lancashire]. Understanding justice: an introduction to ideas, perspectives, and controversies in modern penal theory. McGraw Hill International.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Cullen and Gilbert...a specific case."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Redressing The Social Disempowerment That Causes Crime.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The thesis of the 1AC is that juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be tried and treated as adults in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitative therapy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that rehabilitative therapy is the only justifiable response to criminal behavior. It is able to accurately account for and respect both the decisions of offenders and the societal foundations of crime. Denial of rehabilitation disregards the worth of criminals and leaves criminals worse off than when they entered prison. Only rehabilitation can reintegrate offenders into society. Denial of rehabilitation disregards the worth of criminals and leaves criminals worse off than when they entered prison. Only rehabilitation can reintegrate offenders into society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Edgardo Rotman—1986. [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires]. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 77, No. 4, pp. 1023-1068.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The humanistic model...socially-deprived offender."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In order to address the multifaceted causes of crime, respect the individual dignity of the offender, and uphold the function of punishment, rehabilitation must be the focus. This is also consistent with just desert models of punishment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Peter Raynor and Gwen Robinson—2009. [Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Swansea University and Senior Lecturer in Criminal Justice at Sheffield University]. WHY HELP OFFENDERS? ARGUMENTS FOR REHABILITATION AS A PENAL STRATEGY. European Journal of Probation University of Bucharest. Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 3-20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Contemporary penal policies...a useful human being."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention Two: Rehabilitation is extremely effective at reducing crime and criminal behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Even if interventions...the interventions "doubles."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These results have been consistently replicated for juvenile offenders as well.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mark W. Lipsey—2009. [Peabody Research Institute, Vanderbilt University]. The Primary Factors that Characterize Effective Interventions with Juvenile Offenders: A Meta-Analytic Overview. Victims and Offenders. Vol. 4, pp. 124-147.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The apparent effectiveness...effects on recidivism."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "there are, however...interventions they initiate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year. Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427. JS.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The direct harm of recidivism has four impacts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The effects of...cannot be understood."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, the paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeff Ferrell—1998. [Department of Criminal Justice, Northern Arizona University]. Against the Law: Anarchist Criminology. Social Anarchism, No. 25.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "As the interactionist/labeling...falsely, to solve."</span>


<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Calibri; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; min-height: 14px; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Util aff:</span></span></span>**</span>
<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Calibri; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; min-height: 14px; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">ought - duty/oblitation</span></span></span>**</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ought is duty.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">“ought.” The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. 2005. Oxford University Press.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">V: Government Obligations</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">VC= maximizing protection of rights</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, legal norms are exclusively constitutive of government agency. Government is a socially constructed proxy for the agency of its constituents; it only “acts” in the sense that it manifests the legal norms generated by democratic deliberation.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Second, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">only a system of legally institutionalized norms can underpin a functional social structure.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 12px;">Jurgen Habermas—1996. [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.]. Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy. Translated by William Rehg. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, pp. 114</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">The move from...subject is unburdened."</span></span></span>


<span style="font: 12.0px Calibri; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Second, act= omission </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Sunstein </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Vermule</span>**<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> ‘06: </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span><span style="cursor: pointer;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Cass R. Sunstein and Adrian Vermule. Is Capital Punishment Morally Required</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">? Acts, Omissions, and Life-Life Tradeoffs. Stanford Law Review. 703. January 9, 2006. </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 4.5pt 28.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> "in our view...inaction at all"</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">
</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Third, </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">only consequentialism respects the equal status of all individuals. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cummiskey</span>**<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> ’90:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"we must not...to save many"</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">CONTENTION ONE IS DETERRENCE: </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Transferring violent offenders to the adult court system has both a specific and general deterrent effect that solves crime. Transfer isn’t a deterrent for most offenders, but for violent offenders, it drastically reduces recidivism. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Levitt</span></span>**<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri;">2000:</span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"The top row...crime while incarcerated."</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Other studies generalize transfer effects and fail to measure recidivism by violent juveniles. This means that while transfer may increase recidivism for some types of offenders, that isn’t true for all.**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Loughran<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> </span>**2010: </span></span>

"prior research has...more seasoned ones."

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">CONENTION TWO IS INCAPACITATION: </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Harsher punishment for violent juveniles in the adult court system means they are in prison for longer. While in prison they are physically incapable of committing crime this outweighs benefits of the juvenile court. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Scheidegger </span>**and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Rushford<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn4|[4]]]</span> </span>**’99: </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> "The idea that...these other variables"</span></span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.0pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">CONETENTION THREE IS REHABILITATION: </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Transfer of violent offenders to adult court increases the effectiveness of rehabilitation in the juvenile court system. There are two independent causal factors. </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-list: l18 level1 lfo16; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none; text-indent: -.25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(a) </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Public Pressure. The presence of violent offenders in the juvenile justice system means harsher punishments for everyone. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lucas<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn5|[5]]]</span></span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’01:</span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-list: l18 level1 lfo16; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"y "youthful predators," "teen"...them from reoffending"</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Transfer of violent offenders relieves the public thirst for retribution. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Gordon<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn6|[6]]]</span> </span>**’92:</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"transfer resembles a...come into play"</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l18 level1 lfo16; text-indent: -.25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(b) </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Resource Allocation. Violent offenders in the juvenile system means disruption of normal operations, increased costs, and decreased staff focus on non-violent offenders. This is the cause of all the problems in the juvenile justice system. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kulongoski<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn7|[7]]]</span></span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’95:</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l18 level1 lfo16; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"unable to incarcerate... violent juvenile crime"</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">transferring violent offenders allows us to refocus resources on everyone else who is actually likely to benefit. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn8|[8]]]</span> </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">’96:</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"transferring targeted juvenile... future criminal behavior."</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Focus on the first-time and low-level offenders is the internal link to preventing long-term crime. We have to catch crime early, before the juveniles become violent. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Oropeza<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn9|[9]]]</span> </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">’05:</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"studies have revealed...to work exclusively"</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-list: l10 level1 lfo19; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">c. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">K</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">eeping juveniles who commit violent offenses in the juvenile court causes the public to demand unsealing of juvenile records. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Oddo ‘98<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn10|[10]]]</span> </span>**</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">"the juvenile justice...of this movement"</span></span>

<span style="text-indent: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Disclosure and dissemination of juvenile proceedings has three major impacts. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nelson ’98</span>**</span><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn11|**[11]**]]</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">: </span></span>**</span>
<span style="text-indent: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="text-indent: .5in;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;">"the arguments favoring...must maintain secrecy."</span></span>

<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810.  </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Determinants of Juvenile Crime* Steven D. Levitt University of Chicago and American Bar Foundation (AND Lance Lochner University of Rochester) February 2000, http://www.econ.rochester.edu/lochner/levitt-lochner.pdf </span></span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Thomas A. Loughran, et al. “Differential Effects of Adult Court Transfer on Juvenile Offender Recidivism,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Law and Human Behavior</span>//, Vol. 34, No. 6 (March, 2010) </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Kent Scheidegger and Michael Rushford, “The Social Benefits of Confining Habitual Criminals: The simple truth is that imprisonment works. Locking up more criminals for longer periods reduces the level of crime. The benefits of doing so far offset the costs,” Stanford Law & Policy Review (Winter, 1999)--Michael Rushford is the President and Kent Scheidegger is the Legal Director of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation. Their articles on crime and criminal law have been published in every major California newspaper and law journal and several national publications, including the Congressional Record. The Foundation's amicus curiae arguments have been utilized in a number of precedent-setting United States Supreme Court decisions.</span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[5]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Nancy Lucas. </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">NOTE: RESTITUTION, REHABILITATION, PREVENTION, AND TRANSFORMATION: VICTIM-OFFENDER MEDIATION FOR FIRST-TIME NON-VIOLENT YOUTHFUL OFFENDERS. 2001 Hofstra Law Review. 29 Hofstra L. Rev. 1365 </span></span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[6]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Honorable Gordon A. Martin, Jr.—Fall 1992. [Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Trial Court since 1983, is the Presiding Justice of the Roxbury District Court, one of the country's major frontline urban courts. He has served as a Trustee (1989-92) and the chair of the Juvenile Law Committee (1991-92) of the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges. He was Visiting Professor of Law and Judge-in-Residence at Tulane Law School (Fall 1991) and at the University of San Diego School of Law (Spring 1992) and an adjunct faculty member at New England School of Law]. THE **DELINQUENT AND THE JUVENILE COURT: IS THERE STILL A PLACE FOR REHABILITATION?** Connecticut Law Review, No. 25, Vol. 57. JS. </span></span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[7]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Theodore R. Kulongoski—1995. [Attorney General and Oregon State Juvenile Justice Task Force Chair]. Governor’s Task Force on Juvenile Justice: Final Report. JS. </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[8]]]</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">—1996. Combating Violence and Delinquency: The National Juvenile Justice Action Plan. Chapter Two: Prosecute Certain Serious, Violent, and Chronic Juvenile Offenders in Criminal Court. JS. </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[9]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Michelle L. Oropeza—Summer 2005. [J.D. candidate 2005, Whittier Law School; B.A. in History with a minor in Criminal Justice, California State University of Fullerton, 2002]. NOTE AND COMMENT: EARLY INTERVENTION AND THE EIGHT PERCENT PROBLEM: EFFECTIVELY MERGING THEORIES OF REHABILITATION AND RETRIBUTION IN THE CALIFORNIA JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM. Whittier Law Review, Vol. 26, pp. 1217. JS. </span></span>

</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[10]]]</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Danielle Oddo—1998[<span style="color: #161616;">Executive Editor, Boston College Third World Law Journal] REMOVING CONFIDENTIALITY PROTECTIONS AND THE "GET TOUGH" RHETORIC: WHAT HAS GONE WRONG WITH THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM?. Boston College Third World Law Journal</span>. </span><span style="color: #161616; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">18 B.C. Third World L.J. 105. Winter, 1998</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;"> </span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[11]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6.0pt;"> Kara E. Nelson [J.D.], “COMMENT: THE RELEASE OF JUVENILE RECORDS UNDER WISCONSIN'S JUVENILE JUSTICE CODE: A NEW SYSTEM OF FALSE PROMISES,” 81 Marq. L. Rev. 1101 (1998), p. 1149-1151</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
</span></span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-COMPETENCY NC]]COMPETENCY NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Respecting Competency to stand trial</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Competency to stand trial is a fundamental right.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Elizabeth S. Scott[University of Virginia School of Law] and Thomas Grisso [University of Massachusetts Medical Center] “Developmental Incompetence, Due Process and Juvenile Justice Policy.” 2004. University of Virginia Law School.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "It is generally...to stand trial."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that juveniles are not competent to stand trial.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, juveniles lack multiple markers of competency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Our results indicate...ethnicity or SES."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If juveniles are immature, then they are incompetent to stand trial. This is consistent with Supreme Court precedent.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The issue that...for criminal adjudication."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We believe that...rationally with counsel."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-RECIDIVISM NC]]RECIDIVISM NC**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I shall not...being a reason."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only preference satisfaction is universal and prescriptive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that punishing juveniles in the adult court system increases recidivism.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "studies have found...the short run."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Experts (see Bazemore...and community reintegreation."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recidivism has four impacts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The effects of...cannot be understood."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Juveniles in adult...even more violent."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-FEDERALISM DA]]FEDERALISM DA**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS UNIQUENESS: <span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Attempts to truly balance power between the states and the federal government are on the rise.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 24px;">Valerie Richardson, staff writer “Mont. gun law challenges federal powers” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/jun/15/gun-law-challenges-federal-powers/]]</span> 6/30/09]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">"A new Montana...are considering it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> B) IS THE LINK: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 24px;">The AFF uses federal government action to change the way state courts operate. It mandates federal involvement in criminal justice procedures and jurisdiction. This is a state issue. Juvenile justice programs are funded and managed by state correctional programs.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Robison 6[Susan, Consultant for the National Conference of State Legislatures, “State Human Services Organization: Strategies for Improving Results”, April, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ncsl.org/programs/cyf/hspubintro.htm#_blank|http://www.ncsl.org/programs/cyf/hspubintro.htm]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> "Programs for youth...each state uses."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> C) IS THE INTERNAL LINK:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Loss of jurisdictional control undermines federalism.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[James Lack. Former Senator, New York, Serial No. J-104-31, 7-11, p. 11]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> "Every year congress...of state legislatures."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is especially true for criminal justice, which is considered to be an issue entirely under the jurisdiction of the state. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[Kevin R Rietz law professor at the University of Colorado, ANNALS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, January, pp. 126‑7].</span>

"any movement towards...decisions about punishment."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D) IS THE IMPACT: U.S. federalism is modeled worldwide, which helps diffuse domestic conflict.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Steven G. Calebrisi, Assistant Prof – Northwestern U., Michigan Law Review, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> "First the rules...is at stake.</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-COMPETENCY NC]]COMPETENCY NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Respecting Competency to stand trial</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Competency to stand trial is a fundamental right.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Elizabeth S. Scott[University of Virginia School of Law] and Thomas Grisso [University of Massachusetts Medical Center] “Developmental Incompetence, Due Process and Juvenile Justice Policy.” 2004. University of Virginia Law School.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "It is generally...to stand trial."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that juveniles are not competent to stand trial.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, juveniles lack multiple markers of competency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Our results indicate...ethnicity or SES."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If juveniles are immature, then they are incompetent to stand trial. This is consistent with Supreme Court precedent.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The issue that...for criminal adjudication."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We believe that...rationally with counsel."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-RECIDIVISM NC]]RECIDIVISM NC**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I shall not...being a reason."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Only preference satisfaction is universal and prescriptive.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that punishing juveniles in the adult court system increases recidivism.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "studies have found...the short run."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Experts (see Bazemore...and community reintegreation."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recidivism has four impacts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The effects of...cannot be understood."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Juveniles in adult...even more violent."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ETHICS OF CARE NC</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dominant and universalist moral theories ignore fundamental moral experiences. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Virginia Held [Prof. City University of New York Graduate School], The Ethics of Care: Personal, Political, and Global. New York: Oxford University Press, (2006), p. 24-25</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 7px; line-height: 9px;"> "Within traditional moral...Solidarity for survival"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;">Ignoring these human experiences, destroys the content of any normative framework. Only human connections give meaning to morality and constitute our identity.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 9px;"> Michael J. Sandel [Professor of Political Philosophy, Harvard University], __Liberalism and the Limits of Justice: Second Edition__. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (1998). P. 178-179</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;"> "If the deontological...what he knows."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;"> S: Maintaing an Ethics of Care</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;"> The Ethics of Care are centrally concerned with the moral claims of particular dependent others rather than universalized obligations to rational agents in the abstract. Rejecting universalized abstraction, the Ethics of Care is able to construct a human morality.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> Virginia Held [Prof. City University of New York Graduate School], The Ethics of Care: Personal, Political, and Global. New York: Oxford University Press, (2006), p. 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;"> "First the central...of universal principles."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that maintaining a separate juvenile justice system for offenders charged with violent offenses best maintains an ethics of care. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, juvenile courts best emphasize the relational context for particular offenders.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;">"Our juvenile justice...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">trust, and relationships."</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">**Second**, juvenile courts are better at making individual determinations based on individual needs of dependent youths. The adult system of considering culpability is much weaker than the juvenile system.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Clinicians’ Transfer Evaluations: How Well Can They Assist Judicial Discretion? Louisiana Law Review, 2010; Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology),, Director of the Law and Psychiatry Program, and Director of Psychology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> "First, transfer evaluations...must be addressed."</span>
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-T: CHARGED]]T: CHARGED**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: “Charged” means the time before and during trial.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Field Context</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dictionary.com, The Hot Word—5 November 2010. [Blog published by dictionary.com, not random people. Updated daily with interesting information about the meaning of various words and phrases]. What’s the exact difference between being “charged,” “convicted,” and “sentenced” for a crime?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Today, former oakland...while appeals occur."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Equitable division of ground</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on fairness.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important.</span>