JAN/FEB AFFIRMATIVE

If you have questions you can email me at [[mailto:gmiscoolyo@gmail.com|gmiscoolyo@gmail.com]]



Deont AC

**Meta-ethics come first because they say what morality is**

**First, reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements. Korsgaard1 writes,**

November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

But the human ... or go forward.

**Second, normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals. Korsgaard 2 ads,**

Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

This question brings .... to have it?

**Third, only practical reason can hold people morally responsible. Furrow writes,**

Dwight Furrow “Moral Agency.” Ethics. 2005.

This is because ....morality requires freedom.

**From this it applies we must treat people as ends in themselves, Hill**

Thomas Hill, Jr. “Self-regarding suicide: A modified Kantian view,” in Autonomy and Self-Respect, Cambridge University Press, 1991, 102-103.

The second argument ....their own sakes.

**Accordingly, the standard is __treating people as ends in of themselves__.**


**Further: Punishment vindicates the rights of the victim and communicates a moral message to society that crime is wrong. Garvey explains,**

Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307

Moreover, the censure or ... up requiring it.

**Thus I contend that trying juveniles separately then adults treats them as mere means.**

**First, punishment increases moral worth. Juveniles are culpable actors because all decisions must come from some rational exercise. By treating juveniles separately then adults you don’t observe their ability to think rationally, and treat them as a means to an end. Feld observes,**

David Feld (Centennial Professor of Law, University of Miinnestota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociolofy) Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnestora Law School, 1969; B.A., Univeristy of Pennsylvania, 1966. 1990, Professor Feld was named the Law School's first Centennial Professor of Law. He was the Julius E. Davis Professor of Law for 1981-82.) Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy, The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136, 1997. Jstor. TS. Claire Daviss.

The extent to which ... between conduct, choice, and blameworthiness.

**Second, the adult criminal justice system recognizes that every person is different and has rational capacity. This is true because it provides mitigating factors in the system to treat everyone as an ends in of themselves. In the juvenile system it’s the same vanilla treatment. Feld 2 explains,**

No compelling reasons exist ... version of the juvenile court.

**Third, the age difference should be treated as a mitigating factor. Feld 3 explains,**

Barry C. Feld – 1997. Barry C. Feld – 1997, [Centennial Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota], “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, Vol. 88, No. 1 Autumn 1997. JSTOR. MK. Claire Daviss.

If the child is .... justice in sentencing.

**Fourth, juvenile courts coerce juveniles out of their rights. When the state has say over what they can do to a person it doesn’t allow them to fully express their rationality. Federle writes,**

Katherine Federle – 1999 [Associate Professor of Law at Ohio State University College of Law] “ Is There a Jurisprudential Future for the Juvenile Court?” The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 564: 28. July 1999, Sage Journals Online. DI. Neil Conrad.

Finally, abolishing the juvenile .... under the guise of best interests (Federle 1994).

**Fifth, juvenile courts deny rationality by retaining the right to have total retention of the juvenile. The system becomes centered on security rather than rehabilitation. Slowikowski writes,**

jeff Slowikowski, Acting Administrator June 2010 Office of Justice Programs Innovation • Partnerships • Safer Neighborhoods www.ojp.usdoj.gov Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency? Richard E. Redding

Finally, in this regard, ......into the proceedings.


_