[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
== == 


We should look at a consequential framework because
**(Sunstein (**<span style="color: black;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. University of Chicago Law Professor )</span>






//**(Cummiskey)**//**<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Kantian Consequentialism Author(s): David Cummiskey Source: Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810 </span>Accessed: 22/06/2010 10:34</span>** <span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">In such a situation... to save many </span>

Accordingly the standard for this round is minimizing potential harm to humans. 


Contention One: Nuclear weapons function to be dangerous to humanlife. 

Consenting to nuclear weapons promotes their propagation into the hands of ANYONE. 
**(Art Writes)** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Geopolitics Updated: The Strategy of Selective Engagement Robert J. Art International Security, Vol. 23, No. 3. (Winter, 1998-1999), pp. 79-113.</span>




//<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Arms in the hands of rogue nations resulting from propagation tend to eliminate the presence of rationality. </span>//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span>Wolf)**// <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">A Rand Note. Barry Wolf, When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence, 1991, N-3261-A</span>

**(Hellman)****<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> Professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University, SPRING 2008, by Dr. Martin E. Hellman, New York Epsilon ’66, Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence, Tau Beta Pi</span>**



//Contention 2 nuclear weapons are interconnected so that the slightest mistake can offset the launch of thousands of nuclear war heads from varying nations.//


//**__(Daley Furthers__**//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Apocalypse Never: Forging the path to a nuclear weapon free world, Tad Daley, Rutgers University Press, 2010 Writing Fellow, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War 1985 Nobel Peace Laureate Organization</span>
__Screw-ups happen__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… name your Armageddon scenario.</span>


nuclear weapons are easily lost which decreases deterrence. 
Sturn, Frankie (Fellow with the Truman National Security Project). “Nuclear Weapons: A New Paradigm for the 21st Century.” Backgrounder. July 30, 2009 

__Six nuclear warheads went ...__ __Cold War no longer works.__




Contention 3 Nuclear Weapons facilities destroy local economies and lives in directive to stimulate new retail firms. 

**(Green Berg)** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael Greenberg*, Donald Krueckeberg, Karen Lowrie, Henry Mayer and Darien Simon </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Policy, 33 Livingston Avenue, Suite</span>// //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">100, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-1958, USA</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The literature suggests that more .... size and physical presence.</span>//


//The stimulation of retail firms feeds the capitalist mindset which is inherently evil.//
//**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; text-transform: uppercase;">(</span>****<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif;">Kovel</span>**//<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif;">Kovel ’02 Joel, Professor Social Studies @ Bard College, the Enemy of Nature: The end of Capitalism or the End of the World?</span>


----



==Negative== 

**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The underlying goal of states is to maintain ontological security</span>**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **(Mitzen)**</span>
//<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">Jennifer Mitzen (Assisstant Professor Department of Political Science at Ohio State University) “ONTOLOGICAL SECURITY IN WORLD POLITICS: STATE IDENTITY AND THE SECURITY DILEMMA” </span>**</span>//**European Journal of International Relations//, 2006.//**
//The fact that...Similarly over time//

//<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Value Criterion: Maximizing ontological security </span>//



//<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention One: There is no assurance a nation will disarm weapons post the Affirmative plan. </span>//
//**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Ford </span>**//**Explains)**
**<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20</span>**

<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">But let us...disarment research </span>


<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The removal of nuclear weapons results in a spike to the ontological security of a state since it fears another state small or large has the ability to influence its political and social goals. This fear is a motivator of conflict. </span>
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(Kegley </span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">Furthers)</span>**
**<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Fear is a great motivator... bush's rationale</span>



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]