=**1AC(from state)- novice**= 

**OBSERVATION ONE – INHERENCY** 

**Withdrawal from Afghanistan will eventually happen – but it is currently conditioned and no one knows when it will end** 
**__Cloud, 10__** [David S., “Petraeus: Afghan withdrawals a 'process,' not an exit”, June 29, The LA Times, 
http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/nation/wire/sc-dc-0630-petraeus-web-20100629,0,4120568.story]
<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2001 deadline for beginning U.S troops withdrawals from Afghanistan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">............................</span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Petraeus pointed to another U.S. brigade scheduled to deploy to the area soon, as well as to an expanding effort by special forces troops to kill and capture Taliban leaders and an effort to recuit and train more Afghan police for the area.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">PLAN – the United States federal government should reduce military presence necessary for the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan </span>**


=[[#_Toc270432977]]HEGEMONY= 


**1) the lack of a coherent policy makes the collapse of US credibility inevitable** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Stewart, 9</span>**-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan</span>)

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of foreign troops from the current level of 90,000 to </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">far fewer – perhaps</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 20,000</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.............................................</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">limit our objectives to counter-terrorism </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">and humanitarian assistance </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">and work out how to work with fewer troops </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">and less money over a longer period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.</span>

**2) conflation of counterterrorism and counterinsurgency overstreches the military** 
<span class="Heading2Char">__Boyle 10__</span><span style="color: black;"> - </span>1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**__”__** <span style="color: black;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>)

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This episode indicates the extent of the confusion over counterterrorism (CT) and counterinsurgency (COIN) </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">....................................</span></span> <span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">as they treat an ever-increasing number of localized insurgencies as the incubators of future terrorist threats</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">.</span>

**3)Counterinsurgency focus makes involvement in future conflicts inevitable – this collapses US power** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Boyle, 10</span><span style="color: black;"> - </span>1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**”** <span style="color: black;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>)

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, this</span>__</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> emphasis on a fused threat between terrorists and insurgents </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">..................................</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>__


=[[#_Toc270432981]]Pakistan= 



**1)US** **presence and the perception of an illegitimate Afghani government boost the Taliban** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Galston 10</span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> - </span></span>Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Let’s begin at the beginning, with Marja. The holy trinity of modern counterinsurgency is clear, hold, and build. </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coalition forces are stalled</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> at step one................................................... </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">we’re stuck with the Taliban as a long-term military presence and political force in Afghanista</span>__</span>


**2)Counterinsurgency strategy mobilizes the Taliban – that causes Pakistan collapse** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Akhtar, 10</span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">-</span></span> professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pakistan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">, it is a</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> civil war </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">because its</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> origins stem from the US,</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> NATO </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">occupation of neighboring Afghanistan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">. </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">................................................</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span></span>

**3)Pakistani Collapse risks global nuclear conflict** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Pitt, 9</span>- //a New York Times and internationally bestselling author// //(5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21, including several children who were waiting for a ride to school. Residents of the region where the attack took place are fleeing in terror as gunfire rings out around them, and government forces have been unable to quell the violence. Two regional government officials were beheaded by militants in retaliation for the killing of other militants by government forces. As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where we have come to expect such terrible events. This, unfortunately, is a whole new </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">ballgame. It is part of another conflict that is brewing, one which puts what is happening in Iraq and Afghanistan in deep shade, and which represents a grave and growing threat to us all.</span>__</span><span class="Heading4Char"> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">.............................</span></span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">. So should we all.</span>


[[#_Toc270432984]]SOLVENCY

**1)Withdrawal boosts US leadership – short term declines in credibility are irrelevant** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Innocent and Carpenter, 9</span> **-** *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf</span>)

<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council on Foreign Relations scholar Stephen Biddle, and many others, concede that the war in Central Asia will be long, expensive, and risky, yet they claim it is ultimately worth waging because a withdrawal would boost jihadism globally and make America look weak.26 But </span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">__what we’ve invested in the Afghanistan mission could all fall apart whether we withdraw tomorrow or 20 years from now. In fact, if leaving would make America look weak,__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 13px;">..................................</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Overall,</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">remaining in Afghanistan is more likely to tarnish America’s reputation and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**2)Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban** 
**Stewart, 10-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4</span>) 

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 7.0pt;">This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to “open the door” to the Taliban. The lighter, more political, and less but still robust militarized presence that his argument implies could facilitate a deal with the Taliban, if it appeared semi-permanent. As the President asserted, </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">the Taliban are not that strong. .</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">..................................</span></span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">But it would be better for everyone than boom and bust, surge and flight. With the right patient leadership, a political strategy could leave Afghanistan in twenty years’ time more prosperous, stable, and humane than it is today. That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world.</span>__

**3)A counterterrorism strategy will maintain US influence and solve instability** 
<span class="Heading2Char">Simon and Stevenson, 9</span> * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">An effort on that scale would garner majority US domestic support only if the public sees likely victory and Congress, the White House and the Beltway punditry line up decisively behind the policy. The emerging trends are pointing in the contrary direction. As monthly and annual US casualties in Afghanistan reached historical peaks in August 2009, and the Afghan national election loomed, a poll conducted by ABC News and the Washington Post indicated that most Americans did not support an extended US military commitment in Afghanistan.<span style="color: black;">31</span> Congressional Democrats are balking at anticipated requests for more troops.<span style="color: black;">32</span> And even conservative columnists, like the influential George F. Will, have turned against a maximalist Afghanistan policy.<span style="color: black;">33</span> Overall, </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">increasingly strong perceptions of the Karzai government as inept and corrupt are making prospects that the U</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">nited </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">S</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">tates </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">could enlist it as an effective counter-insurgency partner and lend it the legitimacy required to rebuild the country seem </span>__</span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">more and more</span>__</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> baseless. </span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">T............................................</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The United States can protect its interests and fulfil its international security obligations with a far more circumscribed counter-terrorism effort focused on Pakistan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">. Under such an approach, US policy would recognise Afghanistan as the residual problem that it has, in fact, become.</span>