[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Golden Desert== 

**//﻿//**1AC South Korea

Plan: Independent from any decision regarding Marine Security Guards, Military Intelligence Brigade, or medical or veterinary forces in South Korea, the United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of a substantial number of United States Forces Korea ground forces from South Korea.

Advantage 1 is Korean War

New North Korean provocations are coming due to economic desperation and succession. North Korea will escalate its behavior beyond posturing, and South Korea will no longer show restraint.

Klingner, 2011 – Senor Research Fellow for North East Asia at Heritage Foundation [Bruce 01-10-2011 16:53
Expect more NK provocations in 2011 http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/01/137_79422.html

At the end of 2010, the Korean Peninsula stood on the brink of an abyss of military conflict. North Korea threatened a “nuclear war disaster” if Seoul proceeded with its scheduled live-fire military exercise in the West Sea. But, the exercise went off as planned, North Korea did nothing, and the region breathed a sigh of relief. President Lee Myung-bak can take credit for the display of South Korean resolve that forced Pyongyang to behave itself. The Lee administration was clearly ready, indeed eager, to react more sternly to another deadly North Korean provocation. While South Korea and its U.S. ally can take pride in staunching North Korean aggression, the calm may be short-lived. Like a crafty magician who draws attention to one hand while slipping the coin into his pocket with the other, Kim Jong-il may be planning other provocative acts in 2011, but away from the Northern Limit Line (NLL). South Korea must therefore prepare for a range of possible North Korean attacks. And that’s a challenge. As the ancient Chinese strategist Sun Tzu noted, if your opponent “sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.” North Korea, as always, wants to retain the initiative and control the pace of the game. By incrementally ratcheting up tensions, Kim forces the U.S. and others into a reactive posture. And by creating a parallel crisis to divert attention from a negotiating impasse brought on by its own intransigence, Pyongyang hopes to raise the stakes before striking an eventual deal. That way the regime is able to extract maximum benefits while providing minimal concessions. Yet, despite its history of engaging in high-risk, belligerent rhetoric and actions, Pyongyang has always calibrated its tactics to avoid going beyond its opponents’ redlines. Historically, after escalating tensions, Pyongyang has made conciliatory gestures, offering a return to the status quo ante. North Korea then cynically presents its “restraint” in not fulfilling its threats as evidence of its reasonableness and its willingness to negotiate. Even as the regime threatened war in December, its officials met with New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson. Pyongyang used Richardson’s visit to send a message that it was willing to allow International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to return to the Yongbyon nuclear facility. Doing so also diverted attention from Pyongyang’s disclosure of a uranium enrichment facility, yet another violation of U.N. resolutions. By alternating provocations with diplomatic outreach, Pyongyang seeks to leverage Washington and Seoul away from their pressure policies, such as U.N. sanctions against North Korea. Currently however, neither the Obama nor Lee administrations show any sign of easing the pressure. This will impel Pyongyang to undertake more escalatory behavior in 2011 in the hope of coercing Washington and Seoul to soften their approach. As a result, North Korea and its opponents remain locked in an endless loop of cyclical crises. Pyongyang appears to have abandoned previously self-imposed constraints on its behavior, making the situation even more dangerous. Although this new brazenness could relate to the ongoing North Korean leadership succession, it may also reflect growing desperation brought on by deteriorating economic and political conditions. North Korea’s willingness to engage in ever escalating provocative acts will keep the Korean Peninsula a tinderbox during the coming year. A miscalculation by either side could spark a destructive conflagration.

Structural Factors ensure that those provocations will escalate – their evidence is conclusionary and shallow – new actors, air power, recession and succession all guarantee provocations will escalate

Stares 2011 - Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations [Paul On Escalation in Korea http://38north.org/2011/01/on-escalation-in-korea/ Jan 13

Remarkably, despite all the commentary on the current crisis, to say nothing of the obvious stakes involved, scant attention has been given to how tensions might actually escalate rather than dissipate contrary to past experience. Certainly plenty of commentators have warned about how “miscalculation,” “loss of control” and “unintended escalation” could trigger a new Korean war, but rarely beyond such broad generalizations and assertions. Conversely, those who discount the likelihood of significant escalation should the South retaliate militarily in the future have been no more forthcoming in explaining why the risk remains low other than repeating the broad conviction that it is in neither side’s interests to go to war. As we have seen in many cases, however, an expectation of rational behavior—especially for decision makers under conditions of stress and incomplete information­­—is not something that can be reliably assumed. The propensity of another major clash on or around the peninsula to escalate militarily depends on numerous complex factors. Understanding them may seem like an arcane or academic exercise, but it is in fact critically important to considering how best to manage the current crisis and prevent the very outcome that everyone—including presumably the North Koreans—wishes to avoid. Four interrelated variables are likely to be the critical ingredients to how another deadly clash might escalate. These can be simplified as the “who, where, what and why” factors: Who’s Involved: In the most recent provocations, North Korea has evidently been careful to confine their operations to South Korean targets. A future incident that either intentionally or accidentally involves U.S. forces or citizens in Korea would clearly raise the stakes. It is has been some time since this has happened and one could infer that North Korea understands that the risks have grown too high and thus they will continue to refrain from any direct or harmful interactions with the United States. The decision to carry out joint U.S.-ROK naval exercises in the vicinity of the recent provocations presumably had this in mind to help deter further attacks. Yet, how sure can we really be that North Korea would not target U.S. forces in the future? Might they make the same calculation that the U.S. will be just as risk averse to taking retaliatory action as the ROK has been to date? And even if they do continue to avoid provocations that may involve the U.S., how confident are we that they would know when U.S. forces or citizens are not in harm’s way? Finally, while the involvement of the U.S. would clearly increase the risk of military escalation, we should also not overlook the potential role of Japan. It too has been the target of past provocations and its tolerance for aggressive North Korean behavior has lessened considerably in recent years while its capacity for military retaliation has manifestly increased. Where the Interactions Take Place: As several analysts have pointed out, the Cheonan and Yeongpyeong incidents are the latest in a decade-long sequence of military clashes along the disputed Northern Limit Line (NLL)—all of which have stayed localized. Were additional incidents to occur in this same general area, the supposition is that South Korea would retaliate in the proximate vicinity and in a proportional way to reduce the risk of further escalation. This raises the question of whether North Korea would view South Korean retaliation against mainland, i.e. “on peninsular” targets—which are reportedly now being considered—as a qualitatively different and therefore disproportionate response regardless of how discrete or contained they were? There is no assurance, in any case, that North Korea would confine any future provocations to the NLL/Yellow Sea area. Meddling with the Kaesong Industrial Complex, including the detention of South Koreans who work there, has been mentioned as a possibility. Insertion of special forces into the South if only for reconnaissance purposes is also not out of the question. There have been plenty of precedents after all. Neither should Seoul be viewed as off limits as demonstrated by the failed assassination attempt in late 2009 by a North Korean “hit team” against their most senior defector Hwang Jang Yop. How South Korea would respond proportionately to these or similar types of activities are not immediately clear, though one can anticipate considerable public agitation to retaliate promptly. What Type of Interactions Take Place: The scale, intensity, and nature of any further military interactions clearly have a major bearing on how a crisis would subsequently escalate. Intermittent artillery duels across the NLL and even the DMZ would probably not precipitate a major outbreak of hostilities. The use of airpower, however, which has been raised as a possible retaliatory option by the new ROK Defense Minister, introduces a new, more uncertain element since it entails the direct incursion of sovereign territory and thus represents a clearer political affront to the North. (It also introduces the possibility of downed and captured pilots that could also complicate matters). Targeting major symbols of national power such as nuclear facilities and missile bases—however surgically undertaken—would undoubtedly represent a still greater challenge to the North which we can reliably assume would not go unanswered. The most important variable, however, will be the perceived operational status of each side’s main offensive capabilities. If either North or South Korea perceives that opposing forces are being readied to engage in large scale offensive operations, the incentives to strike first will inevitably increase. For the North the reason would be to avert the almost certain demise of the regime and for the South it would be to minimize the risk to Seoul. But, as has often been observed, precautionary defensive measures designed to bolster deterrence are not easily distinguishable from offensive preparations and thus the potential for miscalculation exists. Here changes to the size, disposition, and alert status of U.S. forces in and around Korea, including the potential activation of reinforcements and the evacuation of non-combatants from forward areas, will be absolutely critical to perceptions of intent. Why Further Provocations are Initiated: If North Korea’s recent actions along the NLL are really just the latest manifestations of a more than decade long effort to redress perceived grievances about the maritime border and, moreover, to settle scores with the South Korean military for previous setbacks, then new provocations for this purpose and the likely response that they prompt would probably keep the crisis from escalating significantly, notwithstanding the cautionary factors noted above. However, if North Korea conducts further military provocations primarily for the purpose of relieving the diplomatic and economic pressure that has been brought to bear on it in recent years (or it feels that negotiations are not producing sufficient concessions), South Korean retaliation would presumably have to incur significantly extra costs to make North Korea desist from continuing its campaign. This also presumably increases the odds that Pyongyang would feel compelled to respond in kind, which could set in motion a dangerous escalatory dynamic. Furthermore, if the leadership in Pyongyang is primarily or even secondarily motivated by the desire to embarrass the leadership in Seoul and/or bolster the legitimacy of the heir apparent—Kim Jong Il’s young and inexperienced third son, Kim Jong Un—through further provocations, then additional escalatory pressures could come into play. Not only would it likely increase the demands on the South to respond forcefully, but its subsequent retaliation would likely be harder for the North to ignore because of its potential harmful effect on the standing of the designated successor. Potential voices of caution and restraint could in the process become muted to avoid appearing less than fully supportive or loyal to the new leadership. Indeed, to curry favor, the incentives to be bold and aggressive may actually increase. This will be especially true if Kim Jong Un is personally directing the recent provocations as some believe he is.

Our argument is structural – geography and military imbalance ensure strategic instability – inevitably provocations will spark a war

Fook Weng Loo Dec 1, 2010 - Professor of War and Strategy at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies [Bernard http://www.eurasiareview.com/analysis/10121-strategic-instability-in-korea Nanyang Technological Univ S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS), Strategic Stability

The Korean Peninsula remains one of the most dangerous hotspots in the Asia Pacific. With the emergence of a new and unknown North Korean leader - and if wise heads do not prevail in either Seoul or Pyongyang - the region may be on the brink of renewed hostilities. ONCE AGAIN, the threat of instability leading to a resumption of armed hostilities in the Korean Peninsula is upon the region, with the latest artillery bombardment by North Korea of the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong. The South Korean military has responded with its own artillery bombardment of the North Korean positions. This latest development is merely another in a long history of similar crises, often seemingly unprovoked. It nevertheless threatens to undermine the strategic stability of the Korean Peninsula. The concept of strategic stability is simple enough: it refers to a condition where strategies that states use to ensure their security remain unchanged, that these strategies remain stable. The critical question that analysts of international security ask is when does strategic stability between two states come under threat? Strategic stability depends upon three elements that together shape the particular inter-state relationship: strategic culture, geography, and military balances. Strategic culture shapes how opposing sets of policymakers view one another, whether or not they view each other with any hostility and suspicion. Geography and the military balance shape the sense of security that either side of this relationship feels at any given time. Natural defences – mountain ranges, wide rivers or open seas – tend to confer a sense of security. However this sense of naturally conferred security can be overcome if, say, the other side acquired military capabilities – say, long-range ballistic missiles – that nullified these natural defences. Latent Instability in the Korean Peninsula The Korean War Armistice has lasted longer than some peace treaties have, and as such it is tempting to consider the peninsula as intrinsically stable. However, this stability may be more apparent than real. Culturally, the Korean Peninsula is more or less homogenous. However, this shared culture did not prevent the outbreak of the Korean War. The fact that the Armistice has held longer than some peace treaties deflects attention away from many crises that have erupted since the 1950s, brought about by actions perpetrated by the North: several attempts to assassinate various South Korean presidents; occasional skirmishes across the DMZ; hijacking and bombings of Korean Airlines aircraft; more recently, the sinking of the Cheonan. The geography of the Korean peninsula definitely does not encourage a sense of stability, at least for South Korea, whose political and economic centre of gravity Seoul comes within range of North Korean artillery. Perhaps the only geographic condition that facilitates strategic stability is the awareness that the physical geography – the central mountain range that runs down the spine of the peninsula in particular – does not facilitate quick and decisive military operations. The military balance provides grounds for further discomfort, because although South Korea is unequivocally stronger than North Korea, the latter has long been suspected of having acquired nuclear weapons. As it stands, it is likely that the North has always maintained a powerful chemical and biological weapons capability. Given its moribund economy and the South’s conventional superiority, nuclear, biological and chemical weapons are an attractive and apparently cheap strategic option for the North. “It only takes a spark”. “It only takes a spark” The fact, however, that the Armistice has held therefore requires explanation. The absence of strategic stability manifests itself in the sudden change of security strategies towards violence. As the history of the Korean Armistice demonstrates, the absence of sudden strategic shifts does not necessarily preclude the absence of these elements of strategic stability. The three elements are analogous to the same elements needed for a fire – fuel, tinder and oxygen. What is needed to turn these elements into fire is a spark. This intervention comes in the form of politics – both the politics within both Koreas, and the inter-state political relationship. It is important that domestic politics in both states is stable, that neither set of policy elites is under domestic challenge. Where at least one set of policy elites is under domestic challenge, however, this is where this set of policy elites may be tempted to create an external distraction away from their domestic woes. Where both sets of policy elites are under domestic challenge, however, this is where the dangers of miscalculation leading to uncontrollable dynamics rise significantly. What kept the strategic stability of the Korean peninsula since the Armistice was that neither set of policy elites across the DMZ were under significant domestic challenge. Syngman Rhee and later Park Chung Hee were both not very popular, but maintained control in Seoul through strong-arm tactics that stifled domestic challenges. Since the 1980s, successful democratisation has allowed such domestic dissatisfaction to be channelled through the ballot box. Kim Jong Un: The X-factor It is North Korean domestic politics that threatens to unravel. Kim Il Sung had a vice-like grip over North Korea. His son, Kim Jong Il had a fairly long apprenticeship, and he seems to have managed to maintain a strong grip over the ruling party and the North Korean military. However, his appointed successor, Kim Jong Un, is an unknown element, even within North Korean political and military circles. It will almost certainly take some time for Kim Jong Un to establish his control over the rest of the North Korean policy and military establishments. Under such conditions, sparks from otherwise minor incidents can assume a significance far beyond the actual event. Small-arms fire being exchanged across the DMZ may spin out of control into much large conflagrations. Now, more than ever, wise heads need to prevail on the Korean peninsula. Fortunately, as the aphorism goes, it takes two hands to clap. To prevent war, it takes two sets of wise heads. We can be fairly certain these wise heads exist in Seoul; it remains to be seen if wise heads will prevail in Pyongyang as well.

Their argument is logically flawed – the absence of war doesn’t make it unlikely

Austin, Dec 2010 – East West Institute [Greg Yellow Sea: The Military Uncertainty http://www.neurope.eu/ articles/Yellow-Sea-The-Military-Uncertainty-/103803.php 5 December 2010 - Issue : 914

This political transition in the dictatorship in North Korea, with the armed forces of South Korea on high military alert already because of the recent attack, in a region with the highest concentration of conventional and nuclear military forces anywhere in the world, creates both high uncertainty and high risk that there may be a military miscalculation. Newspapers in some countries are running reports from experts that war is unlikely. But from a military or political intelligence point of view, that is a nonsensical conclusion. If we know so little about the North’s thinking and since its forces are already on high alert, there is clearly no basis for a judgment that “war is unlikely”. Analysts are interpreting the situation in an indefensible way. They are proceeding from the certainty that “we have seen military provocations in the last three decades by North Korea and they have not led to war” to the conclusion that “a provocation by North Korea can never lead to war”. On this occasion, Vladimir Putin’s assessment is a more reliable one. The situation is “acute and disturbing”.

The Yeonpyeong artillery exchange highlights the risk of our military presence – our forces don’t deter the North, they only entangle the US in a Korean conflict ensuring global escalation

Bandow, Nov 24, 2010 – Cato Institute [Déjà Vu on the Korean Peninsula http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/d%C3%A9j%C3%A0-vu-the-korean-peninsula-4474 The Skeptics

With North Korea shelling a South Korean island, and Seoul responding in kind, fears of a second Korean War are wafting through Washington. Thankfully, even Pyongyang doesn’t want to revive that conflict, but the possibility of mistake and accident remain. Naturally, the United States reiterated its usual security guarantees. The White House said America was “firmly committed” to the South’s defense. But why is Washington mixed up in potential hostilities on the Korean Peninsula? The U.S. commitment grew out of World War II. Washington divided occupation duties on the peninsula, a colony of defeated Japan, with the Soviet Union. Two separate countries emerged, followed by a three-year conflict, in which America intervened. In 1953 the warring sides agreed to an armistice. The United States gave South Korea a defense treaty and military garrison to keep the peace. Since then the world has changed. The Republic of Korea has rushed past its northern antagonist economically. With the thirteenth-largest economy in the world, the ROK now has about forty times the GDP of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. South Korea also has twice the DPRK’s population, as well as a vast technological edge. Moreover, Seoul has detached North Korea’s traditional allies. The Soviet Union went AWOL under Mikhail Gorbachev. Although Vladimir Putin’s Moscow has somewhat repaired its relationship with Pyongyang, Russia still has a far more important economic relationship with the ROK. So does China, which trades fifty times as much with the South as with the North. Only in military strength does the DPRK retain a numerical edge over Seoul. North Korea has 1.1 million men under arms, an impressive number, but individual conscripts tend to be malnourished and of uncertain quality. Their weapons are antiquated. A prime fighting force the North Korean military is not. The South only has about seven hundred thousand men under arms, but they are better trained and deploy better weapons. In any case, Seoul has the resources to provide whatever it believes necessary for its own defense. There is no special gravitational field on the peninsula that keeps the ROK military numerically inferior. South Korea simply prefers to spend its money on economic development. It was one thing for the United States to subsidize the South’s defense when that nation was vulnerable to an attack by the DPRK backed by China and the Soviet Union. That’s no longer the case. America’s military commitment also didn’t seem to matter much when no one imagined another war was really possible. When the North’s “Dear Leader” Kim Jong Il was holding summits with South Korea’s presidents, conflict seemed far away. But last March the DPRK apparently sank a South Korean warship. Seoul did little, other than demand an apology—a demand which the government of President Lee Myung-bak recently retracted. Now the North has staged another violent incident. Even though Pyongyang almost certainly does not want war, its provocative behavior risks triggering one, a conflict in which the U.S. would immediately become involved. In fact, there have been proposals for retaliation against the North backed by Washington. Such a step could start a war directly. There’s no justification for keeping the United States in between the two Koreas. It is long past time for Seoul to develop whatever size military it believes to be necessary and whatever policy towards the North it believes to be appropriate—and to accept the consequences accordingly. The ROK is strong enough to do what important countries traditionally have done throughout history, defend itself. Washington’s one area of genuine interest, nonproliferation, is not advanced by a troop presence in the South. In fact, those are the only Americans within the North’s reach. They are, in effect, nuclear hostages if Pyongyang develops nuclear weapons and delivery systems. The latest intra-Korean skirmish should serve as that proverbial fire bell in the night. Alliances can deter. They also can entangle. In the case of South Korea the security relationship risks drawing the United States into war with no countervailing benefits for Americans. After all, the ROK no longer is central to a larger international struggle, as it was during the Cold War. And the South is capable of deterring the DPRK and winning any conflict that might erupt.

Relying on deterrence encourages South Korean provocations – this escalates to total war

Snyder, Dec 2010 – prof of English at Pohang Science and Technology University [Who's Provokoking Whom in the Koreas? The Western Confucian http://www.nolanchart.com/article8195.html by Joshua Snyder December 12

Is it North or South Korean brinkmanship that is risking a new Korean War? POHANG, SOUTH KOREA. "Just let me know if I have to worry," read my mother's email. With her son living in South Korea for close to fifteen years, we have been through this several times. Whenever North Korea is in the news, she naturally worries about my safety, and now that I've given her a lovely daughter-in-law and two beautiful children, her worries have quadrupled. Since I've been here, there have been raids by commandoes, missile launches, alleged nuclear tests, threats of a "Sea of fire," two sea battles, claiming six and forty-six South Korean sailors respectively, and, most recently the first artillery exchange since the 1953 armistice that lulled the Korean War, in which four South Koreans, including, most disturbingly, two civilians, were killed. When I first got here, I, too was, spooked whenever North Korea was in the news, but I soon did what any resdient of a foreign country should do; I learned from the locals. I saw that South Koreans didn't care. They ignored the news coming from the North. They acted like the sibling of someone with Tourette's Syndrone or severe Autism; while the behavior looked scary to outsiders, they were used to it. Those of us who've been "in country" a few years like to laugh at the "rookies" who get all jittery and start packing their bags whenever CNN finds it necessary to show scary pictures of menacing North Korean soldiers at PanmunjÅm. So I wrote back to my mother, "You don't have to worry, Mom." I lied. This time is different. This year, South Koreans are talking about it. The naval battle on the eve of the 2002 Korea-Japan World Cup was ignored. (A traffic accident invovling the US military at the same time, in which two middle school girls tragically died, was not ignored; there were anti-American demonstrations that brought hundreds of thousands to the streets, unreported by most mainstream media in America.) The sinking of the Cheonan earlier this year was not ignored, perhaps because the loss of life was so great. The 46 sailors were properly mourned, and, along with the anger directed northward, there seemed to be even more conspiracy analysis in the South regarding their government's version of the story. Things are really different with last month's shelling of the disputed Yeonpyeong Island, perhaps because of the loss of civilian life and property. My students and colleagues are talking about this event, bringing it up freely, voicing their concerns and fears. I, too, am a bit nervous, but I'm less nervous about what P'yÅngyang (and Beijing) might intentionally do than what Seoul (and Washington) might accidentally do. A day after the November 23rd Yeonpyeong attack, Justin Raimondo rightly noted that "the South Koreans were conducting military 'exercises' near the disputed island, which North Korea claims as its territory, and South Korean ships had opened fire," going on to suggest that "the military exercises, code-named 'Hoguk,' involving all four branches of the South Korean armed forces and some 70,000 troops, simulated an attack on North Korea, and were meant to provoke the North Koreans, who responded as might be expected" [Korean Conundrum: Is There a Way Out?]. He continued, "US troops were supposed to have participated in the exercises, but apparently the Americans thought better of it and pulled back at the last moment -- perhaps because they knew a provocation was in the making" [ibid]. Mr. Raimondo went on to argue, even more pointedly, "For the South Koreans to conduct military exercises in this explosive region, never mind firing off rounds, is nothing but a naked provocation of the sort the West routinely ascribes to Pyongyang. In the context of North Korea's recent revelation that it is increasing its nuclear capacity, the South Korean military maneuvers were meant to elicit a violent response and succeeded in doing so" [ibid]. A few days later, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak said of the incident, "Launching a military attack on civilians is a crime against humanity, even during wartime" [South Korean president takes responsibility for failing to protect country, signals hardened military stance toward North]. Of course, he is about right attacks on civilians being crimes against humanity, but he said nothing of the irresponsibility of holding war games so close to an inhabited and disputed island. Speaking of President Lee, analyst Peter Lee has argued that "significant North Asian takeaways from the WikiLeaks cables" clearly show that "South Korea, under President Lee Myung-bak, wants the North to collapse and to dominate the reunification process" (while "North Korea is desperate to establish relations with the United States") and that "South Korean government officials are indefatigably, crudely and rather transparently 'working the refs' - selectively packaging and vociferously pushing their arguments - to persuade the United States to abandon mediation through the People's Republic of China (PRC) and/or negotiation with North Korea and instead put South Korea and its reunification agenda in the diplomatic driver's seat" [Dear Leader's designs on Uncle Sam]. Since the Yeonpyeong attack, there have been joint games with the United States, which sent the U.S.S. George Washington, against Chinese warnings (not to mention the warnings of George Washington against "foreign entanglements"). These were followed by joint war games between the United States and Japan, who has her own territorial dispute with Russia, leading South Korean journalist Yi Yong-in to warn that "a 'three against three' framework with South Korea, the United States and Japan on one side and North Korea, China, and Russia on the other is showing signs of taking shape once again" and to speak of a "New Cold War" [Cold War alliances reborn with regional tension]. If the danger of a "New Cold War" were not bad enough, there is the very real danger of a hot war, with South Korea launching its own live fire war games in dozens of areas around the peninsula and warning of responding to any North Korean reaction with air strikes: "The extent of possible South Korean air strikes on the North is not clear, but anything other than an extremely limited and localized action is likely to trigger total war," warned Koreanologist Gregory Elich, "a war that the U.S. will inevitably be drawn into" [Menacing North Korea]. The last total war on this peninsula resulted in the deaths of tens of thousands of Americans, hundreds of thousands of Chinese, and millions of Koreas. Even a cursory glance at world history shows how a minor incident can escalate to a total war. (Of this possibility, fellow Korea resident Andray Abrahamian has reminded us, "If through an overly aggressive deterrence posture war breaks out, millions on both sides could die [and] the two generations of sweat and tears that drove South Korea's economic growth could be undone," rightly concluding that "it is absolutely inappropriate for foreign Korea-watchers to call for greater aggression in confronting the North" [Pyongyang stretches deterrence limits].)

Escalation causes Asian war, kills the global economy, and kills US China relations, causing a war with China

Stares November 2010 - Council on Foreign Relations [Paul B. Military Escalation in Korea CONTINGENCY PLANNING MEMORANDUM NO. 10 http://timeswampland.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/cpa_contingencymemo_10.pdf

The United States has much at stake if future provocations and other military incidents on or around the Korean peninsula escalate militarily, threatening the stability of northeast Asia. Serious military escalation would immediately endanger the lives of U.S. servicemen and women (currently numbered at around 25,000) deployed to defend South Korea as part of the U.S.-ROK Mutual Defense Treaty. Also at risk are over 50,000 U.S. civilians working and living in South Korea, of which 30,000 are believed to reside in Seoul and thus immediately vulnerable to North Korean military action. South Korea is also a major trading partner of the United States and a global economic player. A serious emergency on the peninsula could do great damage to investor confidence in South Korea and possibly trigger a major financial crisis that could resonate regionally if not globally. Further deadly or destabilizing provocations by North Korea would also further strain U.S. and allied relations with China—Pyongyang’s principal patron and protector—at a particularly sensitive time. China’s uncritical posture toward North Korea in the aftermath of the Cheonan incident and its condemnation of subsequent U.S.-ROK naval exercises became the source of considerable friction. Another similar incident would deepen the rift with China and undermine cooperation not only on North Korea but also on a host of other important issues. Renewed conflict on the Korean peninsula and potential U.S. and ROK military intervention into North Korea would clearly pose more serious risks to relations with China, including even the possibility of direct clash. However, should North Korea initiate hostilities against the South or collapse in a way that opens the door to peaceful reunification, these risks should not dissuade intervention. In the meantime, the primary U.S. goal in Korea should be the avoidance of war.

US-China war causes nuclear extinction

Hunkovic, 2009 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]

A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.

North Korean aggression will cause nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war escalates

Hayes & Hamel-Green, 2010 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to tackle the multiple, interconnected global challenges facing humanity, not least of which is the increasing proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. Korea and Northeast Asia are instances where risks of nuclear proliferation and actual nuclear use arguably have increased in recent years. This negative trend is a product of continued US nuclear threat projection against the DPRK as part of a general program of coercive diplomacy in this region, North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, the breakdown in the Chinese-hosted Six Party Talks towards the end of the Bush Administration, regional concerns over China’s increasing military power, and concerns within some quarters in regional states (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan) about whether US extended deterrence (“nuclear umbrella”) afforded under bilateral security treaties can be relied upon for protection. The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.

We solve - withdrawal encourages South Korean independence and regional solutions – North Korean weakness makes war inevitable now

Trifkovic, Nov 23, 2010 - the director of the Center for International Affairs at The Rockford Institute [Dr. Srdja Chronicles Magazine, http://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/2010/11/23/time-to-leave-korea/

North Korea’s artillery attack on a South Korean island on Tuesday was the latest in a series of Pyongyang’s aggressive moves over the past year and a half. They started with ballistic missile tests in April of last year, soon followed by a nuclear test in May. Kim Jong Il, who may be mad, upped the ante last March with the sinking of a South Korean corvette, the Cheonan, with the loss of 46 lives. Given his erratic ways and the hellish nature of his regime, America would be well advised to leave the Koreans, north and south, to sort out their differences well alone. Contrary to the flawed and ignorant New York Times “analysis,” the artillery attack had nothing to do with North Korea feeling “under stress or threatened” by the international sanctions, or “frustrated” with the U.S. negotiating position on its nuclear enrichment program. If this were true, all that is needed is a signal from the White House that America is ready for another round of talks and the tension will subside. Even less was the barrage connected to alleged “recent moves by the ailing North Korean leader Kim Jong-il to position his youngest son, Kim Jong-un, as heir apparent.” The claim that the Beloved Leader is trying to ensure “that the Kim family dynasty continues for a third generation by winning the loyalty of the powerful military with shows of force” is laughable. The loyalty of North Korea’s officers does not need to be “won,” as any hint that it is anything but total means the death of the suspect. In any event, at the metaphysical level of North Korea’s brand of dialectics the succession debate is superfluous: it is Kim Il Sung—the Great Leader, the Beloved Leader’s father—who is still in charge of the country, having been appointed “Eternal President” by the Supreme People’s Assembly in 1994, four years before his temporal death. North Korea is acting aggressively because it is weak. Its economy—a surreal mix of Stalinist central planning and Maoist autarky—cannot feed its twenty-odd million people. (Two million are estimated to have died of starvation over the past decade and a half.) Food and money assistance from the South have stopped coming. Kim wants the flow resumed, and he is being obnoxious in the hope of getting a bribe to be tolerable once again. If offered a peace treaty that’s to his liking, he may even become nice. If he gets nothing, he’ll do something even uglier in a few weeks or months. It is a crude ploy, but he is a crude man. The only reason Kim’s histrionics matter to the United States is the existence of North Korea’s nuclear arsenal and the anachronistic and unnecessary presence of American troops in South Korea. The best way to deal with the problem is for the United States to withdraw all its troops from the Korean peninsula and let those most affected by Pyongyang’s behavior—South Korea, Japan, China, and Russia—deal with Kim as they deem fit. The U.S. withdrawal from the Korean peninsula should be accompanied by a quiet nod to Seoul to go ahead and develop its own nuclear deterrent. Back in the 1970s the Ford Administration induced South Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for not withdrawing American soldiers. Now is the time to reverse the sequence: Washington should grant a free nuclear hand to Seoul in return for the U.S. withdrawal. South Korea has a strong civilian nuclear program with many dual-use activities in place, a physical infrastructure and a technical capability that may result in a credible deterrent within a year or two. As I noted in this column over two years ago, removing the American umbrella from South Korea would be beneficial to both sides because the U.S. would be disengaged from a spot where the dangers of continued military presence exceed benefits, while South Korea would be forced to end its dependence on Washington for its defense: American withdrawal would prompt South Korea finally to become a mature, self-reliant regional power fully responsible for its self-protection, as befits one of the most highly developed industrial economies in the world. It would also force it to diversify its portfolio of foreign contacts, possibly leading to a Russian-South Korean or a Chinese-South Korean alliance, either of which is preferable to an open-ended American guarantee. Some South Koreans are bound to start dragging their feet while simultaneously clamoring for continued U.S. security guarantee. It would not be the first time, but they should be told that America has no national interest in retaining troops in Korea or in continuing to protect Seoul. Old habits may die hard, but the 55-year habit of garrisoning South Korea has to be kicked because it is dangerous, expensive, and unnecessary. To the argument that South Korea’s military is not strong enough to withstand the threat from the North, the answer is clear: only by removing our tripwire can America finally force South Korea to upgrade its military and to make its people assume the full economic and political burden of defending their own country. For exactly the same reason American troops should be removed from Japan and Germany. A strategic anachronism five decades old would thus be finally ended. The above conclusions from October 2008 still stand, word for word.

Withdrawal solves the Korean crisis – it eliminates our provocations and fosters a negotiated peace

Raimondo, Nov 24, 2010 – editorial director of Antiwar.com [Rebel News http://www.rebelnews.org/opinion/1128-asia-pacific/527109-korean-conundrum-is-there-a-way-out Korean Conundrum: Is There a Way Out?

It seems like a hundred rather than ten years ago that the two Koreas were on the verge of an historic reconciliation. The leaders of a divided nation met for the first time in half a century, and many analysts were confident that Communist leader Kim Jong-il had decided North Korea must avoid complete economic collapse by opting for a “soft landing.” For a while, it looked like the “sunshine policy” of South Korean president Kim Dae-jung was going to succeed in preventing a catastrophic collapse of the Communist regime, a flood of refugees, or even the outbreak of war. The US, however, put the kibosh on that hopeful scenario. That didn’t stop the South Koreans, however: over US opposition, Dae-jung’s heir pursued the sunshine policy with even more vigor, traveling to North Korea and stepping over the physical border – but it was not to be. The liberal ascendancy in South Korean politics was ended, in 2008, by the election of President Lee Myung Bak, whose first act was to abolish the government department set up to facilitate national unification. The chief obstacle to peace in the Korean peninsula hasn’t been North Korean intransigence, or South Korea’s enmity, but the intervention of the superpowers – China and the US. China, for its part, has been handed the role of North Korea’s duenna, managing its troublesome charge for the convenience of the Western powers. But Beijing has no interest in a reunified Korea, which would pose a threat to its own regional interests and hegemony. And the US has consistently opposed the “sunshine policy,” standing in the way at every turn, insisting on occupying the country with thousands of US troops who are generally resented. Our intervention in Korea is a relic of the cold war, one we seem unwilling to give up. There is but one solution to the Korean conundrum: the complete withdrawal of US troops, who are being held hostage, in any event, by the prospect of a North Korean nuclear strike. Do we really want to sacrifice some 20,000 American soldiers on the altar of our cold war prerogatives? Without US interference, the two Koreas would have reunified long ago: we have created an untenable situation which threatens to lunge out of our control at any moment. What is needed is a restoration of the “sunshine policy,” a negotiated end to the Korean war – no, we never signed a peace treaty! – and the withdrawal of US forces. Then and only then will peace blossom on the Korean peninsula.

Withdrawal will cause China to step in to resolve North Korean aggression – they would anticipate Japanese and South Korean militarization

Hadar, Nov 30, 2010 – research fellow at the Cato Institute [North Korea: Not America's Problem http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12603 by Leon T. Hadar The American Conservative Blog on November 30, 2010.

What I do know is that U.S. was drawn into the Korean Peninsula during the Cold War and as part of an effort to contain the threat of Communist military aggression -- in the form of Communist China -- in Northeast Asia. Despite the fact that the Cold War ended a while ago (that I also know) U.S. military commitment that was formalized through a security agreement with South Korea and is demonstrated by the continuing presence of 37,000 U.S. troops in that country is still in place. The main threat that is being raised as a way of justifying this U.S. military commitment and presence is that of North Korea. In particular, Pyongyang's drive to develop nuclear military capability has become the main rationale for U.S. military intervention in the Korean Peninsula. Ironically, one of the reasons that North Korea has taken the nuclear military direction has to do with legitimate concerns -- considering U.S. policies in Iraq and elsewhere -- over a possible U.S. attempt to do a "regime change" in Pyongyang. In any case, the main threat that North Korea is posing today is to its neighbors in northeast Asia. There is the long-term concern over the economic problems, including the flow of refugees into South Korea and China that could follow the collapse of North Korean. And there is no reason why Japan and South Korea should not be worried over the rise of a nuclear North Korea. Indeed, these worst-case-scenarios reflect what should be seen as direct threat to the core national interests of South Korea, Japan -- and China -- and not to that of the U.S. It is not difficult to imagine the U.S. response if the central government in Mexico disintegrates and/or if Chavez's Venezuela goes nuclear. But Korea is not in America's strategic backyard but in China's. A China that is trying to project itself as a responsible regional power in East Asia should be concerned that Japan and South Korea would have no other choice but to develop their nuclear military capability -- an idea that has been opposed by Washington -- in order to deter a nuclear North Korea ruled by the Kim Dynasty. So in a way, the most effective way for the U.S. to help achieve a stable balance of power in the Korean Peninsula is not by sending more war ships to South Korea but by providing incentives to the Chinese to stop making excuses for the North Koreans -- not to mention honoring Dear Leader during his visit to Beijing -- and to start "doing something" about North Korea. Washington could help by working with Seoul and Tokyo -- and Beijing -- in drawing an outline for a timeline for a nuclear military disarmament of North Korea as part of a package deal involving economic assistance to the North as well as process of diplomatic détente with that government, including ties with Washington (and perhaps eventually the peaceful reunification of the peninsula). There is no doubt that it is China, as Pyongyang's only regional (and global) patron, that would have to play the main role in forcing North Korea to accept such a deal. The alternative should not be an all-out war in the Korean Peninsula involving U.S. troops, but an American "green light" to Seoul and Tokyo to take all the necessary steps to protect their security -- including the nuclear military option. And while I don't know many things, I am quite sure that the prospect of Japan and South Korea going nuclear will make it more likely than not that China will finally start acting like the responsible regional power that it claims to be.

China is the key internal link to solvency – currently, Beijing is pushing multilateral talks rather than pressure on North Korea

Global Security Newswire, Nov. 29, 2010 [China Calls For Talks Over Korean Crisis, Parties Unresponsive
http://globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=nw_20101129_2947

China yesterday called for emergency direct diplomacy with North Korea in order to lower escalating tensions following last week's artillery attack on South Korea (see GSN, Nov. 24). However, the United States and its allies said now is not the time to address Pyongyang's demands for new six-party talks. North Korea's shelling of the inhabited South Korean island of Yeonpyeong resulted in the deaths of several soldiers and civilians and injuries to nearly 20 more. The incident directly followed news from Washington that Pyongyang revealed to visiting U.S. experts earlier this month that it had covertly built a large-scale advanced uranium enrichment facility at its Yongbyon nuclear complex, the Wall Street Journal reported. The two events have renewed international attention on the North Korean nuclear impasse. Beijing dispatched its senior foreign affairs official to lead a delegation to Seoul over the weekend for talks on the crisis. However, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak told the Chinese visitors that it was not the "right time" to relaunch long-stalled six-nation talks aimed at the permament denuclearization of North Korea, according to an administration official. The nuclear talks involve China, Japan, the two Koreas, Russia and the United States. They were last held almost two years ago. Pyongyang withdrew from the negotiations in April 2009 and one month later carried out its second nuclear weapons test, an action for which it was punished with heightened U.N. Security Council sanctions. The North for some time has declared its willingness to return to the nuclear talks. However, Washington, Seoul and Tokyo are leery of returning to a negotiating framework that has been used by the North in the past as a means to win international concessions only to later resume work on its nuclear weapons program. The three allies have called on Pyongyang to demonstrate its "sincere" commitment to nuclear disarmament before they will agree to resume negotiations. China is North Korea's strongest foreign ally and chief economic benefactor. Beijing's continued support of the Kim Jong Il regime is frequently cited in Washington as the only thing keeping the Stalinist government from collapsing. Because of this, China has come under growing criticism from the international community to do more to press North Korea over its belligerent behavior. "It's hard to know why China doesn't push harder," Adm. Michael Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a CNN interview aired yesterday. "They clearly are interested in this -- in the region not spinning out of control -- so my sense is they try to control this guy, and I'm not sure he is controllable." Lee yesterday told Chinese State Councilor Dai Bingguo in blunt remarks that China must take a "more fair and responsible position" on peninsula affairs and leave Cold War-era considerations behind, according to presidential spokesman Hong Sang-pyo. In a television address today, Lee pledged North Korea "would pay a price" for any future hostilities and said that "more endurance and forgiveness would only result in bigger provocations" (Fairclough/Ramstad, Wall Street Journal I, Nov. 28). Japan today dismissed Beijing's call for direct talks with North Korea. Japanese Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara said it would be "unacceptable for us to hold six-party talks only because North Korea has gone amok," the Wall Street Journal reported (Yuka Hayashi, Wall Street Journal II, Nov. 29). The United States has yet to give a response to China's call for emergency talks, saying it would carry out discussions with the South Korean government first, Reuters reported. A high-ranking Pyongyang official voiced doubts about Beijing's initiative to engage in discussions. While the North has not responded to China's call, the unidentified official told Kyodo News that countries involved in the latest incident should meet for talks first (Laurence/Choonsik, Reuters, Nov. 29). While urging that the two Koreas to refrain from actions that would raise tensions on the peninsula, China has abstained from condemning Pyongyang's shelling of the South Korean island, indicating that Beijing will refuse the urging of Washington and other states to punish the North, the Los Angeles Times reported last Thursday. North Korea's presumed possession of the nuclear bomb, its large arsenal of chemical weapons and a massive standing army make a military assault on the isolated state an unattractive option, according to reports. The United States and much of the international community have already drastically curtailed trade relations with the Stalinist state. In the White House view, China remains the only nation to have sway over the North and the only hope of producing a change in the Korean nuclear impasse. "China is pivotal to moving North Korea in a fundamentally different direction," U.S. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said. "You can go [to] the U.N. Security Council or call for a five-party meeting (minus North Korea). But first you've got to go after China," said Victor Cha, point man for North Korean policy during the Bush administration.


Advantage 2 is US China Relations

Hu’s visit opens the potential for improved Sino US relations

Koo 2011 - retired international business consultant [Dr. George New America Media 1/25/11, " A Win-Win Situation for US-China Relations After Hu's Visit ", http://newamericamedia.org/2011/01/a-win-win-situation-for-us-china-relations-after-hus-visit.php)

China's President Hu Jintao has concluded his state visit and returned to Beijing. By most accounts, his visit was considered a virtually unqualified success—for him and for his host, President Barrack Obama—in a rare win-win in the bilateral relations arena. The mainstream media considered the visit a win for Obama and his team for successfully presenting all their concerns to Hu: Secretary of State Clinton on North Korea, Treasury Secretary Geithner on the value of the RMB and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke on protection of intellectual property and level procurement policy inside China. Obama in his joint press conference with Hu mentioned his concern on human rights. All the potentially confrontational issues were delivered diplomatically and in easy to digest doses. Hu's visit to Congress the day after the state dinner was the most problematic, but Congressional leaders, despite threatening to confront the leader of China, had their meetings with Hu behind closed doors. Afterwards, they could claim before the press to have raised their concerns with Hu and expressed satisfaction with the outcome. Hu also won because he got the high profile treatment and honor accorded to him as the head of a major nation, and there were no unpleasant surprises or glitches, except for a minor one when everyone expected simultaneous translation at the joint conference and there was none. The usual China bashing howlers and screechers were kept on the fringe and did not steal the limelight as they might have wished. The confusion at the White House press conference did present Russ Limbaugh the opportunity to make a complete ass of himself on national radio with a 20 second verbal burst mocking the Chinese language. Limbaugh's undecipherable braying alleged to imitate Hu's remarks offended many and did nothing but tarnish his own image.

US military presence in South Korea fuels security competition with China – they perceive it as containment. This makes peace in Korea impossible because it prevents cooperation

van der Putten, Dec 2010 - research fellow with the Clingendael Institue in The Hague [Frans-Paul 12/21, “Sino-US geopolitical rivalry does not help Korean Stability” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/21/sino-us-geopolitical-rivalry-does-not-help-korean-stability/

The United States government believes China needs to do more to contribute to stability on the Korean peninsula. According to this view, North Korea is highly dependent on Chinese support and Beijing should use its influence to moderate Pyongyang’s behavior. As some American and other Western observers have put it, it is time for China to start behaving like a responsible great power. But it is not likely that China will fundamentally alter its policies. The main reason for this is that geopolitical rivalry between China and the United States overshadows the situation on the Korean peninsula. Lately both Chinese and US actions have escalated this rivalry. As long as the two powers are more interested in keeping the other in check than in stabilising the peninsula no significant progress in terms of stabilising the region is possible. North Korea recently shelled the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong after a period of escalating tensions, killing two soldiers and two civilians. North Korea claims that it opened fire after being provoked by a South Korean exercise. In response to the shelling incident the US and South Korea have conducted joint military exercises in the Yellow Sea. These involved a US aircraft carrier and are regarded as threatening not only by North Korea but also by China. China’s economic and diplomatic support for North Korea undermines efforts by other countries to affect the behavior of the regime in Pyongyang. Even China is troubled by North Korean behavior. The North Korean nuclear program, and the risks Pyongyang is running in escalating tensions with South Korea and the US, are counter to China’s security interests. Theoretically, the Chinese government could therefore decide to put pressure on Pyongyang by limiting its economic support and by ending the diplomatic support it often gives in the United Nations Security Council. It is very unlikely that China’s policy towards North Korea will change much. The US diplomatic reports revealed by WikiLeaks are a confirmation of uneasy Sino-North Korean relations rather than an indication that this relationship is about to change. China will probably continue to give more support than any other country because it is highly vulnerable to the consequences of political or economic collapse in North Korea. The longest and most accessible border of North Korea is the one it shares with China. Chaos in North Korea would harm stability in China’s northeast, the region formerly known as Manchuria. Moreover, Beijing is less motivated to put pressure on the North Korean regime than other countries are. The US is primarily interested in preventing the proliferation of nuclear technologies from North Korea. South Korea and Japan are mainly worried about the military threat from the north. Compared with these countries, China is less concerned about such issues. The most fundamental element in China’s policy towards North Korea is that Beijing regards the US as a greater security threat than the situation on the Korean peninsula. Since neither China nor the US is by itself the predominant great power in Korean affairs, Beijing can only assume responsibility for regional stability if it does so jointly with the US. However, this will not happen since China and the US each regard one another as their main potential military adversary. They also have contrary interests on the Korean peninsula. While China regards the US military presence in South Korea as a potential threat that should eventually be removed, the US intends to maintain this presence as it helps to limit Chinese regional influence. The relationship between Beijing and Pyongyang cannot be seen apart from this context of geopolitical rivalry. It is desirable for China that the regime in North Korea continues to exist and that the Chinese government retains a certain degree of influence in Pyongyang. A major precondition for China to change its policy towards North Korea is an improvement in Sino-US relations. In the past months these have been deteriorating. This is the result of China’s growing power, and America’s increasing concern that Beijing is not using its influence for the right purposes. Washington has been strengthening its strategic ties with actors such as Taiwan, Vietnam, Indonesia and India. The US government has also shown greater involvement in territorial disputes between China and some of its neighbours. It is likely that, from a Chinese perspective, the US deploying an aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea is merely the latest attempt by Washington to exploit a regional security crisis in order to strengthen its own position and weaken that of China. The American dual strategy of trying to get China to put pressure on North Korea while at the same time attempting to limit the growth of Chinese influence in regional affairs is unlikely to result in a more stable Korean peninsula.

American military presence in Korea is a key factor undermining US China relations – our refusal to compromise and focus on security politics makes our relationship zero sum – relations are collapsing now.

Lee, 2010 – Asian Affairs writer for China Matters [July 19 "The New Face of U.S.-China Relations: 'Strategic Reassurance' or Old-Fashioned Rollback?" The Asia-Pacific Journal, http://japanfocus.org/-Peter-Lee/3385

Indeed, U.S. China policy today looks a lot like good old-fashioned rollback, isolating China instead of incorporating it into a win-win multi-polar system. The Western press, distracted by individual issues such as Iran sanctions, Google, and the Cheonan sinking, seems oblivious to the fact that the U.S.-China relationship has lurched into zero-sum territory and relations are in the deep freeze, largely as the result of the willingness of the Obama administration to confront China in pursuit of its agenda. The Chinese media, on the other hand, talks about nothing else. Observers who believe that China will yield to U.S. pressure as long as its access to world markets is assured are ignoring unmistakable signs that Beijing has decided that, while its economic interests are vital, it must be prepared to downplay short-term economic gain in order to ensure its geopolitical position and national future Even in its inception, U.S. demands for “strategic reassurance” were inherently unequal, framed as something that China had to provide up front before the U.S. would reciprocate. Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg described the doctrine at a Center for a New American Security conference on China in September 2009. The onus for reassurance was put on China in a way that Beijing undoubtedly found grating. (1) U.S. Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg with Lee Myung-bak Strategic reassurance rests on a core, if tacit, bargain. Just as we and our allies must make clear that we are prepared to welcome China’s “arrival”, as you all have so nicely put it, as a prosperous and successful power, China must reassure the rest of the world that its development and growing global role will not come at the expense of security and well-being of others. Bolstering that bargain must be a priority in the U.S.-China relationship. And strategic reassurance must find ways to highlight and reinforce the areas of common interest, while addressing the sources of mistrust directly, whether they be political, military or economic. Steinberg proceeded to list five areas of "impressive" cooperation: reviving the global economy, denuclearizing North Korea, dealing with Iran's nuclear program, mitigating climate change, and anti-terrorism and anti-piracy. In retrospect, it is clear that in only two areas--the global economy and anti-terrorism/piracy--do the U.S. and China share a genuine identity of interests, while with respect to North Korea, Iran and climate change, among other issues, U.S. and Chinese positions remain fundamentally at odds. And in the key area of the global economy, agreement is by no means absolute. While appreciating the massive Chinese domestic stimulus program (and the equally massive Chinese purchases of U.S. sovereign debt), U.S. plans for the new economic order clearly include a stronger Chinese currency—a situation that Mr. Steinberg alluded to when he described the three "continued areas of mistrust and disagreement": China's military expansion, global resource competition, and the economic relationship. Indeed, in mid-2010, a bleak but accurate gloss on "strategic reassurance" might be that the only area of genuine mutual reassurance concerns China's willingness to sail around the Horn of Africa in a cautious and responsible manner in search of pirates. The aggravated US-China relationship is compounded by the Obama administration's difficulty in making compromises. At first, the administration's initiatives looked promising. They made no easy accommodation to habitual U.S. claims to national exceptionalism, and even had some international appeal. Indeed, they were designed to repudiate the arrogant American me-firstism that had seen the U.S. turn its back on the Kyoto climate treaty, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the International Criminal Court, and the Law of the Sea Treaty. In short, rather than deploying the rhetoric of national interest, the Obama administration presented itself as a promoter of global norms—and sought to impose those norms on China. Yet the full brunt of U.S. intentions often only become clear in the foreign policy-making fine print, such as the somewhat obscure speeches of U.S. deputy secretaries. As Steinberg put matters with respect to China: Now, strategic reassurance does not only apply to the relationship between China and the United States. Our partners, particularly in Asia, must have the same certainty that China’s expanding role will not come at the expense of their interests. And this not only requires that the United States bolster its own bilateral relationships, especially with key allies like Japan, South Korea and Australia, but also that we lead in updating and strengthening the regional and international institutions that shape the context in which China’s development occurs, so that change is constructive rather than destabilizing. ... When it comes to the international system, we must ensure that new powers like China – and there are others as well, of course – can take their rightful place at the table without generating fear or mistrust. ... As we pursue these policies, we will be open to China’s growing role, but we will also be looking for signs and signals of reassurance from China. If China is going to take its rightful place, it must make those signals clear. So, when U.S. initiatives collided with Chinese interests, there was no graceful way to negotiate between Obama universalism and Chinese particularism or, as it is usually framed in the Western press, U.S. principle vs. Chinese selfishness. The situation has not been helped by the fact that many of the Obama administration's grand strategic initiatives have fizzled in practice (or in the case of something like economically crippling Iran through sanctions, the outcome may be years in the future). Complex Rubik's cube diplomacy involving interlocking initiatives and delicate sequencing on much tougher Iran sanctions, climate change, and nuclear non-proliferation have yielded few breakthroughs. The reasons are numerous, but in each case, China is part of the story. China has challenged the U.S. on a number of these issues. For example, Beijing earned the Obama administration's ire for its high-profile role in opposing U.S. initiatives in the Copenhagen climate debacle and as a result of its hard bargaining on UN sanctions against Iran. Partly as a result of Chinese resistance, the climate and NPT treaties and Iran sanctions have, after immense expenditures of prestige and energy by the United States, degenerated into little more than unproductive can-kicking down the road of futile multilateral initiatives. In short, strategic reassurance is not forthcoming in areas of potential cooperation, a situation that the Obama administration blames on China, and not on any shortcomings of its own policies. Frictions, on the other hand, are persistent and apparently structural. It appears that, in response, the Obama administration has chosen to interpret “strategic reassurance” as the simple and emotionally satisfying strategy of rollback—attacking Chinese interests instead of trying to accommodate them. From the Chinese perspective, the Obama administration’s China policy increasingly looks, walks, and quacks like containment. Apparently, the United States prefers a different term: “preempting China’s monopoly status”. On his blog, the Washington Note, foreign policy insider Steve Clemons reported on a conversation he had in early June with senior administration officials involved in the international realm. One of the most interesting comments made to a question I posed probing the administration's strategy in Asia, was "Steve, don't watch the hand!" What this person was saying was 'don't get lost in everything going on at the surface' in US-China relations or US-Japan relations, but rather look at the other many bits and pieces of America's engagement in the Asia Pacific that are enhancing US leverage and generating a greater sense among Pacific Rim countries that America is there, engaged, and preempting China from enjoying monopoly status. (2) Either by accident or design, U.S. public diplomacy campaigns involving climate change, nuclear proliferation, Internet freedom, Iran, and the Cheonan sinking, while yielding few concrete gains, have succeeded in one key respect. They have placed China at a geopolitical disadvantage, forcing it to line up with pariahs or near pariahs like Iran, Burma, and North Korea in opposition to the Western democracies, Japan, and South Korea. The antagonistic US-China relationship shows signs of becoming institutionalized, especially with the Obama administration’s efforts to establish a solid strategic, legal, and diplomatic foundation for sustained and successful third-country sanctions on the issue of Iran, with the EU and Japan ready as always to lend a hand. The administration’s overwhelming desire to isolate Iran virtually assures a confrontational posture against China.

Sino US relations are key to solve every global impact

Cohen 2009 - former U.S. secretary of defense [Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef)

The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over the next months, years, and decades has the potential to have a greater impact on global security and prosperity than any other bilateral or multilateral arrangement. In this sense, many analysts consider the US.-China diplomatic relationship to be the most influential in the world. Without question, strong and stable U.S. alliances provide the foundation for the protection and promotion of U.S. and global interests. Yet within that broad framework, the trajectory of U.S.-China relations will determine the success, or failure, of efforts to address the toughest global challenges: global financial stability, energy security and climate change, nonproliferation, and terrorism, among other pressing issues. Shepherding that trajectory in the most constructive direction possible must therefore be a priority for Washington and Beijing. Virtually no major global challenge can be met without U.S.-China cooperation. The uncertainty of that future trajectory and the "strategic mistrust" between leaders in Washington and Beijing necessarily concerns many experts and policymakers in both countries. Although some U.S. analysts see China as a strategic competitor—deliberately vying with the United States for energy resources, military superiority, and international political influence alike— analysis by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) has generally found that China uses its soft power to pursue its own, largely economic, international agenda primarily to achieve its domestic objectives of economic growth and social stability.1 Although Beijing certainly has an eye on Washington, not all of its actions are undertaken as a counterpoint to the United States. In addition, CSIS research suggests that growing Chinese soft power in developing countries may have influenced recent U.S. decisions to engage more actively and reinvest in soft-power tools that have atrophied during the past decade. To the extent that there exists a competition between the United States and China, therefore, it may be mobilizing both countries to strengthen their ability to solve global problems. To be sure, U.S. and Chinese policy decisions toward the respective other power will be determined in large part by the choices that leaders make about their own nations interests at home and overseas, which in turn are shaped by their respective domestic contexts. Both parties must recognize—and accept—that the other will pursue a foreign policy approach that is in its own national interest. Yet, in a globalized world, challenges are increasingly transnational, and so too must be their solutions. As demonstrated by the rapid spread of SARS from China in 2003, pandemic flu can be spread rapidly through air and via international travel. Dust particulates from Asia settle in Lake Tahoe. An economic downturn in one country can and does trigger an economic slowdown in another. These challenges can no longer be addressed by either containment or isolation. What constitutes the national interest today necessarily encompasses a broader and more complex set of considerations than it did in the past As a general principle, the United States seeks to promote its national interest while it simultaneously pursues what the CSIS Commission on Smart Power called in its November 2007 report the "global good."3 This approach is not always practical or achievable, of course. But neither is it pure benevolence. Instead, a strategic pursuit of the global good accrues concrete benefits for the United States (and others) in the form of building confidence, legitimacy, and political influence in key countries and regions around the world in ways that enable the United States to better confront global and transnational challenges. In short, the global good comprises those things that all people and governments want but have traditionally not been able to attain in the absence of U.S. leadership. Despite historical, cultural, and political differences between the United States and China, Beijing's newfound ability, owing to its recent economic successes, to contribute to the global good is a matter for common ground between the two countries. Today there is increasing recognition that no major global challenge can be addressed effectively, much less resolved, without the active engagement of—and cooperation between—the United States and China. The United States and China—the worlds first- and third-largest economies—are inextricably linked, a fact made ever more evident in the midst of the current global financial crisis. Weak demand in both the United States and China, previously the twin engines of global growth, has contributed to the global economic downturn and threatens to ignite simmering trade tensions between the two countries. Nowhere is the interconnectedness of the United States and China more clear than in international finance. China has $2 trillion worth of largely U.S. dollar-denominated foreign exchange reserves and is the world's largest holder—by far—of U.S. government debt. Former treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson and others have suggested that the structural imbalances created by this dynamic fueled the current economic crisis. Yet. China will almost certainly be called on to purchase the lion's share of new U.S. debt instruments issued in connection with the U.S. stimulus and recovery package. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's February 23.2009, reassurance to Beijing that U.S. markets remain safe and her call for continued Chinese investment in the U.S. bond market as a means to help both countries, and the world, emerge from global recession underscored the shared interest—and central role—that both countries have in turning around the global economy quickly. Although China's considerable holdings of U.S. debt have been seen as a troubling problem, they are now being perceived as a necessary part of a global solution. Similarly, as the worlds two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, China and the United States share not only the collateral damage of energy-inefficient economic growth, but a primary responsibility to shape any ultimate global solutions to climate change. To date, cooperation has been elusive, owing as much to Washington's reluctance as to Beijing's intransigence. Painting China as the environmental bogeyman as an excuse for foot-dragging in policymaking is no longer an option; for its part, China, as the world's top polluter, must cease playing the developing-economy card. Yet energy security and climate change remain an area of genuine opportunity for joint achievement. Indeed, U.S.-China cooperation in this field is a sine qua non of any response to the energy and climate challenges. The sheer size of the Chinese economy means that collaboration with the United States could set the de facto global standards for etficiency and emissions in key economic sectors such as industry and transportation. Climate change also provides an area for cooperation in previously uncharted policy waters, as in emerging Arctic navigational and energy exploration opportunities. Washington and Beijing also share a deep and urgent interest in international peace and stability. The resumption of U.S.-China military contacts is a positive development. As two nuclear powers with worldwide economic and strategic interests, both countries want to minimize instability and enhance maritime security, as seen by parallel antipiracy missions in the waters otT Somalia. Joint efforts in support of United Nations peacekeeping, nonproliferation, and counterterrorism offer critical areas for bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Certainly, regional and global security institutions such as the Six-Party Talks concerning North Korea or the UN Security Council require the active engagement of both Washington and Beijing. Even more broadly, crisis management in geographic regions of mutual strategic interest like the Korean peninsula, Iran, or Burma require much more Sino-U.S. communication if the two countries are to avoid miscalculation and maximize opportunities to minimize human sutfering. Increasing the number of mid-level military-to-military exchanges would help in this regard. The United States and China could do more to cooperate on law enforcement to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in Western China. Afghanistan is competing with Burma as the main provider of narcotics to China; Washington could use its influence with the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul to develop a joint antinarcotics program. This could potentially build networks and joint capabilities that might be useful for U.S.-China cooperation on the issue of Pakistan. In addition, Washington should also encourage NATO-China cooperation along the Afghan border. Collaborating under the auspices of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) might provide an additional framework for Beijing and Washington to address Central Asian security issues in a cooperative manner. 1he SCO, which includes Pakistan as an observer and will convene a multinational conference on Afghanistan in March 2009, has long made curbing narcoterrorism in Afghanistan a priority. In addition, the VS. Drug Enforcement Agency and the Chinese Anti-Narcotics Bureau should expand cooperation on interdiction and prosecution of heroin and meth traffickers. To be sure, there are a number of areas of serious divergence between Washington and Beijing. This should surprise no one. The United States has disagreements with even its allies. Two large powers with vastly dilferent histories, cultures, and political systems are bound to have challenges. History has shown, however, that the most effective way of addressing issues is for the U.S. and Chinese governments to engage in quiet diplomacy rather than public recrimination. In the U.S.-China context, there is often little to be gained—and much to be lost in terms of trust and respect—by a polarizing debate. Any differences, moreover, must not necessarily impede Sino-U.S. cooperation when both sides share strong mutual interests. I;. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that "the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function."3 Effective policy toward China by the United States, and vice versa, will require this kind of dual-minded intelligence. Moreover, working together on areas of mutual and global interest will help promote strategic trust between China and the United States, facilitating possible cooperation in other areas. Even limited cooperation on specific areas will help construct additional mechanisms for bilateral communication on issues of irreconcilable disagreement. In fact, many of the toughest challenges in U.S.-China relations in recent years have been the result of unforeseen events, such as the accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in May 1999 and the EP-3 reconnaissance plane collision in April 2001. Building trust and finding workable solutions to tough problems is the premise behind the Obama administrations foreign policy of smart power, as articulated by Secretary of State Clinton. Smart power is based on, as Secretary Clinton outlined in her confirmation hearing, the fundamental belief that 'We must use... the full range of tools at our disposal—diplomatic, economic, military, political and cultural—picking the right tool, or combination of tools, for each situation."' As the CS1S Commission on Smart Power noted in November 2007, "Smart Power is neither hard nor soft—it is the skillful combination of bothIt is an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships and institutions at all levels... .°5 As such, smart power necessarily mandates a major investment in a U.S.-China partnership on key issues. 'The concept enjoys broad support among the Chinese and American people and, by promoting the global good, it reaps concrete results around the world. There should be no expectation that Washington and Beijing will or should agree on all, or even most, questions. But the American and Chinese people should expect their leaders to come together on those vital issues that require their cooperation. U.S.-China partnership, though not inevitable, is indispensable.

Chinese Leadership on North Korea is essential to avoid Currency Wars – it sets the tone for US China Cooperation on other issues

Sica, Nov 27 2010 - Chief Investment Officer of SICA Wealth Management [Blog - Forbes What the Conflict on the Korean Peninsula Means to the World Economy http://blogs.forbes.com/jeffreysica/2010/11/27/spirit-of-freedom-what-the-conflict-on-the-korean- peninsula-means-to-the-world-economy/?boxes=financechannelforbes

The US market fell this week amid concerns that the Korean peninsula conflict will escalate. The bulls have chosen to focus on this conflict as yet another example of “saber rattling” from North Korea, but its consequence could be far greater than ever before, considering a few key factors. FIRST, China has the greatest influence over North Korea and how they handle them will substantially affect the world economy. SECOND, China is the largest foreign holder of US Government debt in the history of our nation, with holdings of nearly 900 billion dollars. This position gives them significant leverage over the US and substantially undermines our ability to negotiate with them when they side against us, as they seem to be doing now. THIRD, China has systematically devalued the juan in response to QE2 creating the dawn of inflation as we are beginning to see now and will soon see in the US. The recent interest rate increase in China has yet to show signs of curbing inflation. If the US and China are unable to come to terms with the conflict in the Korean Peninsula, it is unlikely they will come to terms with stabilizing their currencies — continuing on a path of systematically devaluing currencies and creating a future threat of inflation while undermining a worldwide economic recovery. F’inally, an insane dictator with nuclear weapons that is not kept at bay, by its closest ally and neighbor, is always a threat to the economy and well being of nations throughout the world. China has a responsibility to help stabilize the region and until they do, uncertainty and fear will remain throughout the worldwide financial markets, keeping us in a very defensive position.



Chinese Currency Conflicts cause a slippery slope to protectionism and trade war

The Globe and Mail September 30, 2010 [Congress flexes muscle over China's yuan; U.S. politicians set stage to allow companies to seek retribution for lost sales due to underpriced imports BYLINE: KEVIN CARMICHAEL Staff Lexis

U.S. lawmakers are taking direct aim


at China's economic policies, endorsing legislation that would allow companies to seek retribution for lost sales due to undervalued currencies such as the yuan. The House of Representatives voted 348-79 Wednesday to amend the 1930 Tariff Act to make clear that "fundamental exchange-rate misalignment" is a punishable subsidy under American trade law. The change, if enacted, would require the U.S. Trade Representative to consider complaints of harm due to foreign currency policies, opening the door to countervailing import duties. China isn't mentioned in the bill, but the target of the measure's authors is clear. As lawmakers considered the legislation at committee last week, the debate was all about China, which politicians, unions and some companies have long accused of benefiting from the active management of its exchange rate at the expense of lost American jobs. Estimates suggest the yuan is undervalued relative to the dollar by anywhere from 5 to 40 per cent. With midterm elections little more than a month away, and the country's unemployment rate stuck above 9.5 per cent two years after the financial crisis, some political show of force against China was all but inevitable. "We want China to know that we're all standing shoulder-to-shoulder for fair trade," Pennsylvania Republican Tim Murphy, the bill's co-sponsor, told Bloomberg Television before the vote. The China measure has a long way to go before becoming law. The Senate and the president also would have to approve it, and it's unclear whether either would do so. Still, the vote represents a shift in the politics that surround China's economic policies. For all the vitriol spilled on China's currency practices in recent years, the House until Wednesday had stopped short of endorsing a legislative remedy directed at Beijing's policy of keeping the yuan pegged at an advantageous rate against the dollar. Politicians may well be bluffing - many said during the debate that their goal is to give Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner a "stick" to help in negotiations with the Chinese. But the fact that there now is legislation on the table necessarily increases

the risk of a trade war between the world's two largest economies. It also threatens to set a precedent for other countries that have issues with the currency policies of China and other countries. "It is important to keep the pressure on China to re-align its currency, but if countries start trying to countervail on the basis of exchange rates, we could be on a pretty slippery and dangerous slope in terms of respect for the integrity of WTO rules," said Lawrence Herman, a trade lawyer at Cassels Brock in Toronto.

Trade wars cause global war

Spicer, Olin Foundation, 96 (The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121)

The choice facing the West today is much the same as that which faced the Soviet bloc after World War II: between meeting head-on the challenge of world trade with the adjustments and the benefits that it will bring, or of attempting to shut out markets that are growing and where a dynamic new pace is being set for innovative production. The problem about the second approach is not simply that it won’t hold: satellite technology alone will ensure that consumers will begin to demand those goods that the East is able to provide most cheaply. More fundamentally, it will guarantee the emergence of a fragmented world in which natural fears will be fanned and inflamed. A world divided into rigid trade blocs will be a deeply troubled and unstable place in which suspicion and ultimately envy will possibly erupt into a major war. I do not say that the converse will necessarily be true, that in a free trading world there will be an absence of all strife. Such a proposition would manifestly be absurd. But to trade is to become interdependent, and that is a good stop in the direction of world stability. With nuclear weapons at two a penny, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.

Concessions on our military presence in Korea are necessary to build mutual trust and relations with China

Koo 2011 - retired international business consultant [Dr. George New America Media 1/25/11, " A Win-Win Situation for US-China Relations After Hu's Visit ", http://newamericamedia.org/2011/01/a-win-win-situation-for-us-china-relations-after-hus-visit.php)

Mutual trust, much deeper than it exists today, will be required if the United States truly wants China's help in resolving the North Korea crisis, one of the most nettlesome foreign policy issues facing the US. As recent wiki leaks revealed, some Chinese officials have expressed the view that letting the North Korean regime collapse would save Beijing a lot of grief. China has good relations with South Korea and certainly can work with that government as a neighbor once the Korean peninsula is unified. However, China could not possibly entertain the thought of having American troops stationed on the border of a unified Korea and China. For China to seriously contemplate letting North Korea implode, the United States needs to assure China that the United States would not take advantage of such a collapse and put troops in the north. We would be looking at a lot of mutual trust that does not exist now. In the past, the United States' practice of strategic ambiguity meant making conflicting statements and taking inconsistent positions to keep China guessing. Obviously, this did not build trust and did not alter China's perception of the United States as unreliable. To build mutual trust, both sides need to modify their style of communication, as well as revising their priorities, offering selected concessions. The Americans need to improve their ability to receive and digest nuanced signals from China. The Chinese need to be able to communicate in a more direct and straightforward manner so as not be misunderstood.

==**//1AC - Blake//**== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">//Plan: Independent from any decision regarding Marine Security Guards, Military Intelligence Brigade, or medical or veterinary forces in South Korea, the United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of a substantial number of United States Forces Korea ground forces from South Korea.// </span>


//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage 1 is Korean War </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Korean Conflict inevitable within a year – three reasons – High tensions, North Korean weakness and succession instability will overwhelm checks on escalation </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Stares</span> November 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> - Council on Foreign Relations**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Paul B. Military Escalation in Korea CONTINGENCY PLANNING MEMORANDUM NO. 10 http://timeswampland.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/cpa_contingencymemo_10.pdf</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> THE C ONTINGENCY </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A new</span> and potentially … might initially expect or desire.__</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our argument is structural – geography and military imbalance ensure strategic instability – inevitably provocations will spark a war </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Fook Weng Loo</span> Dec 1, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> - Professor of War and Strategy at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bernard http://www.eurasiareview.com/analysis/10121-strategic-instability-in-korea Nanyang Technological Univ S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS), Strategic Stability</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Korean Peninsula </span>remains one …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prevail in Pyongyang as well.</span></span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Yeonpyeong artillery exchange highlights the risk of our military presence – our forces don’t deter the North, they only entangle the US in a Korean conflict ensuring global escalation </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bandow</span>, Nov 24, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – Cato Institute**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Déjà Vu on the Korean Peninsula http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/d%C3%A9j%C3%A0-vu-the-korean-peninsula-4474 The Skeptics</span>**//

//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">With North Korea shelling a</span> South … any conflict that might erupt. </span>__</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">South Korea will inevitably initiate conflict – our military presence emboldens them and ensures escalation </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Carpenter</span>, Nov 29, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – senior Fellow, the Cato Institute**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics Does Washington Need to Fear South Korea More than North Korea? Ted Galen Carpenter</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __Since <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">North Korea’s artillery barrage</span> … presence in such a dangerous neighborhood__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Relying on deterrence encourages South Korean provocations – this escalates to total war </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Snyder</span>, Dec 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – prof of English at Pohang Science and Technology University**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Who's Provokoking Whom in the Koreas? The Western Confucian http://www.nolanchart.com/article8195.html by Joshua Snyder December 12</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __Is it North or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">South … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">North" [Pyongyang stretches deterrence limits].)</span></span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Attempting to increase deterrence only increases the risk for miscalculation—it’s perceived as provocation </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Armstrong</span>, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html)</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> New York (CNN) -- The Korean … War, not start it anew.</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Escalation causes Asian war, kills the global economy, and kills US China relations, causing a war with China </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Stares</span> November 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> - Council on Foreign Relations**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Paul B. Military Escalation in Korea CONTINGENCY PLANNING MEMORANDUM NO. 10 http://timeswampland.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/cpa_contingencymemo_10.pdf</span>**//

//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The United States has much … be the avoidance of war. </span>__</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Economic decline causes Nuclear war </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">O’Donnell, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner%7Ey2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III|http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III]]</span>, JMP)</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Could the current economic crisis … </span>__. However sometimes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">history repeats itself.</span>__</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US-China war causes nuclear extinction </span>//

//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Hunkovic</span>, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span> – **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">A war between China, </span>Taiwan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">be considered in this study.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>) </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We solve - withdrawal encourages South Korean independence and regional solutions – North Korean weakness makes war inevitable now </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Trifkovic</span>, Nov 23, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**the director of the Center for International Affairs at The Rockford Institute**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Srdja Chronicles Magazine, http://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/2010/11/23/time-to-leave-korea/ </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__North Korea’s artillery attack on a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2008 still stand, word for word.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Withdrawal solves the Korean crisis – it eliminates our provocations and fosters a negotiated peace </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Raimondo</span>, Nov 24, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – editorial director of Antiwar.com**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Rebel News <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rebelnews.org/opinion/1128-asia-pacific/527109-korean-conundrum-is-there-a-way-out]]</span> Korean Conundrum: Is There a Way Out? </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__It seems like a hundred rather … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">blossom on the Korean peninsula</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Withdrawal will cause China to step in to resolve North Korean aggression – they would anticipate Japanese and South Korean militarization </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Hadar</span>, Nov 30, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> – research fellow at the Cato Institute**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [North Korea: Not America's Problem <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12603]]</span> by Leon T. Hadar The American Conservative Blog on November 30, 2010. </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What I do know is that U.S. … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">power</span> that it claims to be.__</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">China is the key internal link to solvency – currently, Beijing is pushing multilateral talks rather than pressure on North Korea </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Global Security Newswire</span>, Nov. 29, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [China Calls For Talks Over Korean Crisis, Parties Unresponsive </span>//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=nw_20101129_2947</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">C</span>__hina yesterday called for emergency …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">policy during the Bush administration.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Chinese Leadership on North Korea is essential to avoid Currency Wars – it sets the tone for US China Cooperation on other issues </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sica</span>, Nov 27 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span> - Chief Investment Officer of SICA Wealth Management** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Blog - Forbes What the Conflict on the Korean Peninsula Means to the World Economy <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.forbes.com/jeffreysica/2010/11/27/spirit-of-freedom-what-the-conflict-on-the-korean-]]</span> peninsula-means-to-the-world-economy/?boxes=financechannelforbes </span>//

//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US market fell this … us in a very defensive position. </span>__</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Chinese Currency Conflicts cause a slippery slope to protectionism and trade war </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Globe and Mail</span> September 30, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Congress flexes muscle over China's yuan; U.S. politicians set stage to allow companies to seek retribution for lost sales due to underpriced imports BYLINE: KEVIN CARMICHAEL Staff Lexis </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">U.S. lawmakers are taking direct … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at Cassels Brock in Toronto.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Trade wars cause global war </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Spicer</span>, Olin Foundation, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">96</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The choice facing the West … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a premium</span> in the years ahead.__ </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Even if conflict doesn’t break out, US presence is a conventional threat that forces North Korea to stockpile bioweapons, which makes accidents and sales to terrorists inevitable </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">ICG</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]]</span>, JMP) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">This report examines North Korea’s … vital source of foreign ex- change.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Extinction </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Of all the weapons of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes.</span></span>**//


//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage 2 is Japan-China Relations </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Japan and China currently have diverging views of regional cooperation that prevent an increase in relations—South Korean and Japanese cooperation solves because it makes Japan more willing to engage in dialogue </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Yoshihide</span>, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Institute of East Asian Studies at Keio University (Soeya, “An East Asian Community and Japan-China relations,” May 17, AJISS-Commentary, an online publication of The Association of the Japanese Institute of Strategic Studies, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/05/17/an-east-asian-community-and-japan-china-relations/) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looking from this perspective, </span>__one …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">than simply in a bilateral context.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The plan solves—withdrawing from Korea motivates Japanese and Korean cooperation because military presence allows them to only engage through the US </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bandow</span>, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” September 20, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/]]</span>) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Six decades have passed since … </span>__responsible leadership in East Asia__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The recent fishing boat incident raised tensions over disputed islands in the East China Sea—without normalization of relations, Japan will adopt a more provocative military policy in the East China Sea </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Watanabe</span>, September 29, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – special to the Asahi Shimbun (Akio, “COMMENTARY/ No winners in Japan-China trawler showdown,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201009280411.html]]</span>) </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> brought onto itself major … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">for a more robust, </span>__</span>**military response**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That causes Sino-Japan war and destabilizes the region </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Malik</span>, October 9, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Japan Foundation Fellow and author of an important volume on Pakistan-Japan relations (Ahmad Rashid, “Sino-Japanese Balance Must Be Maintained,” October 9, PanOrient News, http://www.panorientnews.com/en/news.php?k=484) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sino-Japanese relations revolve around … deterioration in Japan-China relations</span>.__</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The impact is nuclear war </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kennedy 2k</span>**—Professor of History at Yale (Daily Yomiuri, 1-10)//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Kennedy: Over the past two … and capital in the region.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The US would inevitably be drawn into a war over the East China Sea—our defense commitment to Japan applies </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bush</span>, October 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard C., Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies @ Brookings, “China-Japan Security Relations,” Policy Brief #177, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/10_china_japan_bush.aspx) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">If such a clash occurred, it … </span>Japan or, at least, oppose China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That brings China and Japan into a regional security architecture </span>**//

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Iida</span>, 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow @ National Institute for Defense Studies, Tokyo (Masafumi, “CHAPTER 6 Japan-China Relations in East Asia : Rivals or Partners?,” NIDS Joint Research Series No.3 – China’s Shift: Global Strategy of the Rising Power, http://www.nids.go.jp/english/publication/joint_research/series3/series3.html) </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">It is fair to say … direction of its Japan policy.</span>**//



==Plan - La Costa== 

//**Independent of any decision regarding its medical units, veterinary services, Marine Security Guards, and the Military Intelligence Brigade, the United States federal government should implement a withdrawal of its ground troops in South Korea.**//



==Plan - Greenhill== 
//**Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea.**//


==Korean War Adv - Greenhill== 
Advantage 1 is Korean War
//**U.S. presence makes North Korean provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw in**//
//**Bandow, 10** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)//
//Suspicions continue to mount that … doing so in 2010 is bizarre.//

//**Even if a conflict won’t start __… escalate__ to global nuclear war**//
//**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;">Stratfor</span>, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">10</span>** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)//
//Managing Escalation But __no one, … the situation escalates much further.__//

//**The status quo is fundamentally different – nuclear use is now likely and deterrence won’t solve**//
//**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;">Chung</span>, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">10</span>** – Visiting Professor at the School of International Relations, Nanyang Technological University and former Professor of international relations at Seoul National University (6/1/10, Chung Chong Wook, “The Korean Crisis: Going Beyond the Cheonan Incident,” http://www.rsis.edu.sg/publications/Perspective/RSIS0352010.pdf)//
//The sinking of the Cheonan, … , premature pessimism is not advisable.//
//**Reinforcing deterrence … just makes __miscalculation__ more likely**//
//**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;">Armstrong</span>, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">10</span> –** Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]])//
//New York (CNN) -- The Korean … War, not start it anew.//
//**Also, North Korean aggression will cause nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war escalates**//
//**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])**//
//**The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community.**//

//And, withdrawal solves – it is necessary to prevent U.S. entanglement in Korean conflicts//
//Bandow, 10 **– senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (5/24/10, Doug, “Avoiding Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432]], JMP)**//
//**After an investigation of nearly … to the South Korean people.**//

//Withdrawal checks escalation – it prevents U.S. involvement in regional conflicts//
//Bandow, 03 **– senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/7/03, Doug, CATO Policy Analysis, “Bring the Troops Home: Ending the Obsolete Korean Commitment,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-474es.html, JMP)**//
//**Further, __t<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">he</span>__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: 1pt solid windowtext;">U</span>__nited __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: 1pt solid windowtext;">S</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">t</span>ates** __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">markedly … </span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">of conflict to be avoided.</span>__**//
//Withdrawal will spur peaceful negotiations and inter-Korean peace//
//<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;">Feffer</span> , <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">04</span> **– contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of**// **North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis //(6/23/04, John, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]], JMP)//**
**//The vortex of Korean politics … eventually bring home its troops.//**
//We’ll isolate two scenarios//

//Scenario 1 - The Economy//

//Even a conventional Korean attack would kill the US economy//
//Detroitbuisnessbureau.com 10 **(5/24/10 Mike Davis is the author. Blog. http://www.thedetroitbureau.com/2010/05/how-a-new-korean-war-would-affect-u-s-business/)**//
//**Once again, as a result this … home than you might think.**//

//Nuclear war//
//O’Donnell, 09 **(2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” [[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner%7Ey2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III|http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III]], JMP)**//
//**Could the current economic crisis … __. However sometimes <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">history repeats itself.</span>__ [[#_Toc264816563]][[#_Toc264653812]][[#_Toc264653726]][[#_Toc264653606]]**//

//Scenario 2 is Bio Accidents//

//Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to stockpile bioweapons to counter the US presence – this makes either deliberate, accidental or unauthorized use inevitable//
//ICG, 09 **(6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)**//
//**This report examines North Korea’s …** __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.</span>__//
//Impact is extinction//

//Ochs 02 **– MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]**//
//**__Of all the weapons of …__ the highest of all crimes.**//





==//**6 Party Talks Adv - Greenhill**//== 
//**Advantage 2 is the 6 Party Talks**//

//**U.S. military concessions toward North Korea are critical to break the deadlock in the six party talks. This will provide a framework to re-establish US-Russian relations, stabilize the peninsula, and allow Russia to become a major economic player in the region.**//
//**Toloraya, 08 – diplomat with the rank of Minister and Director of Korean Programs at IMEMO, the top Russian Foreign Ministry official in charge of the Korean peninsula, Doctor of Economy and a Full Professor degree in Oriental Studies (Georgy,**// **Asian Perspective, //“//**//THE SIX PARTY TALKS: A RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE”, ProQuest)//
//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The real root of</span>__ __the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… </span>____regional energy and industrial projects.__</span>**//

//Russian Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war//
//Cohen 10**—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles)**//
//**Cohen: The real concern I have … tanks, can connect these dots.**//

//6 Party talks Motivate China to take a greater regional role – this ensures a peaceful transition to regional multipolarity//
//Bandow, 09 **– senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)**//
//**So Washington should exhibit humility … __other’s economic and geopolitical ambitions.__**//

//Adapting to regional multipolarity is best - trying to cling to the status quo makes hegemonic decline and conflict with China inevitable//
//Bandow, 09 **– Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug,**//
//**“First Among Equals,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]], JMP)**//
//**It’s the job of military …** __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">smoother will be the transition</span>__ __.__//

//Withdrawal solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula//
//Garfinkle, 03 **– taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP)**//
//**NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY The U.S. finds … __it. We can help them do so.__**//
//Conflict with China will escalate to global nuclear war//
//Hunkovic, 09 – **American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict**//
//**Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]**//

//**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">A war between China, Taiwan … </span>__be considered in this study.**//

//Regional Multipolarity is currently halfhearted – … __sustainable__ cooperation between regional powers//

//Carpenter and Bandow 4 - *** Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute **(**Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR//
//__The security treaties with the …__ **central and west-central Pacific.**//

//**Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**//
//**Espiritu, 06** – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)//
//Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home.//


=Negative= 
==Golden Desert== 

==Greenhill -== 
===vs Edgmnt - Japan Naval=== 
====Japan Prolif==== 
US security credibility with Japan is high but troop presence is key

//**__Russell ’10__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, Co-Dir. – Center for Contemporary Conflict at Naval Postgraduate School, Former Advisor to the Sec. Def. on Persian Gulf strategy, PhD Candidate in War Studies – King’s College U. London, “Extended Deterrence, Security Guarantees and Nuclear Weapons: U.S. Strategic and Policy Conundrums in the Gulf”, 1-5, [[http://www.analyst-network.com/article.php?art_id=3297]])</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Her formulation reflects a firm histori…nuclear weapons in the region.</span>//

//**Plan would cause Japan to go nuclear—weakening of the alliance means proliferation becomes a legitimate option**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Emma Chanlette </span>**Avery and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Specialist in Asian Affairs, Mary Beth </span>**Nikitin**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Analyst of Non-proliferation, </span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (“Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects and US Interests” Published Febuary 19 Available online at [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>//
//__Perhaps <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the single most important … Japan developing its own deterrence</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//
//**Asian arms races escalate to nuclear conflict**//

//**__Cimbala ‘8__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen J.-, March, Comparative Strategy, “… in Future Asia”, Vol. 27 #2, Informaworld)</span>//

//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The spread of nuclear weapons … </span>marginalization of major interstate warfare__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


====Conditioning CP==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TEXT: The United States Federal Government should offer to _ __if Japan agrees to adopt a defense force, whose tasks include, but are not limited to, a guarantee to support the United States in any future confrontation with China over Taiwan.__ </span>
//__[ ]__ **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan will say yes – the Okinawa bargains prove </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan Visitor, ’10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__. JapanVisitor.com is a subsidiary of Soccerphile™ Limited and is a member of the American Chamber of Commerce (ACCJ) Japan. [[http://japanvisitor.blogspot.com/2010/04/us-to-pull-out-of-okinawa-japan.html]]__</span>__.__//
//**__<span style="margin-right: 0.2in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">e scheduled this week at Kyoto University. </span></span>__**//
//**[ ] <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is losing ground in Japan over the failure to close bases – this is driving Japan towards China – the result is abandoning the US over future Taiwan conflicts </span>**//
//**__Martin__ <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fackler, 1-24</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__-10. “In Japan, U.S. Losing Diplomatic Ground to China,” NYT, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/24/world/asia/24japan.html?pagewanted=print]]__</span>__.__//
//**__<span style="margin-right: 0.2in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">TOKYO — </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">When</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Defense Secretary Robert M. </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">Gates …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new Japanese government should at least think hard before sidling closer to China, saying, “Mr. Hatoyama does not have a clear sense of what relying on China would really mean, or whether it is even actually desirable.” </span></span>__**//
//**__[ ]__ <span style="font-size: 12pt;">An independent Japan aligned with the US solves Taiwan conflict--restricts Chinese sphere of influence </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble, ‘6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__[Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Two Normal Countries Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship” CATO Policy Analysis, April 18, 2006, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf]]]__ </span>**__<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">lingering hostility toward</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">suspicion …t on a distant patron for its defense.</span></span>__**//

//**__[ ]__**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Most recent Chinese policy guarantees nuclear war over Taiwan </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP 10 </span>(Feb 21, [[http://www.rumormillnews.com/cgi-bin/archive.cgi?noframes;read=1721]]) LL**//
//**__<span style="margin-right: 0.2in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BERLIN -- </span><span class="CardsFont12pt">China is ready to .. ensure its return to the mainland. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- AFP </span></span>__**//

====//**__Start Good Politics__**//==== 

//**__Will Pass- GOP appeasement__**//
//**__Global Security Newswire 7/19 (James Kitfield, 7/19/10, " Lugar Calls for Passage of "New START" ", pg online @ [http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100719_3083.php]__**//**__au)__**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__NJ: Do you believe that__ </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">… </span>__<span class="CardsNotUnderlined">of Iran's suspected nuclear program. </span>__**
**//Plan destroys Political Capital - Troops in Okinawa are overwhelming popular in congress – controversy would undermine capital//**
**//Japan Today 6/25//** __(Japan Today: Japan News and Discussion “U.S. House offers thanks to Okinawa for hosting U.S. forces” http://www.japantoday.com/category/politics/view/us-house-offers-thanks-to-okinawa-for-hosting-us-forces)__ 
**__WASHINGTON —__ The U.S. House __of Representatives …__ from external threats and instability.’‘**
**//Political Capital is key Obama needs to find 67//**

**//The Hill 6/10/10//** __[[[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/102479-senate-panel-hopes-to-send-start-treaty-to-floor-before-august]], “Senate Panel hopes to send START treaty to floor before august”, by Michael O’Brien]__ 
**"It is imperative that … __be punted until next year.__**
**__START key to improving U.S. Russian relations and stopping nuclear proliferation__**



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Heading2Char">John Isaacs 09 </span></span>
[//… New Start Treaty Increases U.S. Security”]//

//**New <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">START is a key part … </span>**reigning in Iran’s nuclear program.//
__U.S. Russian relations solve every impact__ 
__CFR Task Force 2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]__ 
Since the dissolution of the … Russia are on a positive track.
__U.S. Russian tensions spill over globally and risk major power wars__ 
__CFR Task Force 2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]__ 
Over time, accumulating <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">disagreements between … </span>East—<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">can affect the outcome</span>.


====//**CO2 Ag**//==== 
//**Global famine and war are inevitable because human demand for food is outstripping production and technology. Only increasing CO2 can increase photosynthesis, land and water efficiency to feed the world without collapsing the biosphere. The impact is extinction. And this outweighs all other impacts. And Any decrease in CO2 will push us over the brink. And CO2 overcomes impact alternate causes. And all empirical studies prove. Best. Card. Ever.**// 
<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;">**__Sherwood Idso, Center for Science and Public Policy, 2006 (Agriculture (Our Greatest Challenge), Jan 12, [[http://ff.org/centers/csspp/library/|__http://ff.org/centers/csspp/library/__]] co2weekly/20060112/20060112_02.html)__**</span>
**Humanity faces many challenges__<span style="color: black;">; we …y policies that stand in the way of that objective are truly obscene. </span>__**
**//CO2 Fertilization increases carbon sequestration in plants which slows the rate of warming//** 
**//Idso 2003//** //[C02 science magazine Volume 6, Number 42] 10/15/**03**// 

<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;">**__In light of these observations, plus the fact ….__** </span> **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">//the rate//</span>** <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> of global warming</span>__.__




====**__Security K – 1NC__**==== 

**__The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.__**
**__David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)__**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">__Approaches that deconstruct theoretical …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;"> Others, that the international sphere comes into being</span>.__</span></span><span style="color: black;"> __David Campbell adds that it is by constantly articulating danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.__ </span>**
**__Their attempt to reason alliances with troops and the term “security alliance” obscures the reason why those troops are actually there__**
**__Jairus Grove, PhD Candidate Johns Hopkins, 3-16-10 http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/2010/02/new-wars-new-warriors.html__**
**__I had no recollection of what it was. ….<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;"> cannot be the best we can do.</span> </span>__**
**__Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence__**
**__Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]__**
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">__The problem with societal securitization is ….__</span>__nal, <span class="Underline">where truth is never questioned. </span>__</span>**
**__Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy__**
**__Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ‘96 (Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)__**
**__This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The <span class="Underline">inability to give meaning to global changes ….</span>esistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?__**


====**//Case Neg//**==== 
**//Shuster, 10//** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">__(6/21/10, Mike, National Public Radio, “Japan's PM Faces Test Over U.S. Base On Okinawa,” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=127932447]])__</span> 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__[In a recent interview with the BBC, the current Foreign …__</span> in government,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" Okada said.]</span>__**


**//Withdrawal from Japan Causes Nucuear Proliferation//**
**//Kazi 9//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __Research Assistant at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi [Reshmi, July 31, Fellows' Seminar Discussants: J Madan Mohan and Sitakanta Mishr, [[http://www.idsa.in/event/WillJapanGoNuclear_rkazi_310709]]; WBTR]__</span> 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__At present,__ </span>many security …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">e disregarded altogether by Japan. </span>__**


**//China sees Guam as a threat—additional forces make tensions icy//**
**//Kan & Niksch, 1/19//** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">__– Specialists in Asian Security Affairs (1/19/10, Shirley & Larry, Congressional Research Service, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA513871]])__</span> 
**China’s civilian and …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">doing this [buildup] under the cover of darkness.”19</span>__**

**//US military presence on Okinawa is crucial to sustain the Japanese economy//**
**//Michael, 2/06//**
**__(R.D., Captain in the Marine Corps Combat Development Command and writer for the Expeditionary Warfare School Contemporary Issue Paper, “Okinawa: The Economic Repercussions for Closing the U.S. Bases,” EWS, pg-1 //ag)//__**
**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States military bases are the third single … by SOFA personnel on the local economy.</span>//**

**//Japanese economy is key to the global economy and to check back Chinese nuclear conflict//**

**//The Guardian, 2/11/02//**
**//__(“Defenseless Japan Awaits Typhoon,” pg online @ lexis__// __ag)__**

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Even so,</span>
**//the west cannot afford to …. with its bigger (and nuclear) neighbour.//**



**//[ ] Yokosuka key: BMD and Aegis systems devastate Beijing’s power//**
**//Wall Street Journal, June 2, 2010//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __[Yuka Hayashi, Jacob M. Schlesinger, “Japan PM Resigns In Flap on Okinawa”, Pro Quest, Access, Date- July 14, 2010]__</span> 
**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Yokosuka base controls the three straits of Soya, … is technically possible in the near term.</span>__**
**//[ ] Yokosuka key: Guam doesn’t have the ship repair capability//**
**//Wall Street Journal, June 2, 2010//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __[Yuka Hayashi, Jacob M. Schlesinger, “Japan PM Resigns In Flap on Okinawa”, Pro Quest, Access, Date- July 14, 2010]__</span> 
**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The indispensability of the ship-repair …. permanent home port for carriers.28</span>__**
**//[ ] Japanese Naval bases can’t be replaced: they’re a key relay station for the Indian Ocean, Middle East and South China Sea//**
**//Wall Street Journal, June 2, 2010//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __[Yuka Hayashi, Jacob M. Schlesinger, “Japan PM Resigns In Flap on Okinawa”, Pro Quest, Access, Date- July 14, 2010]__</span> 
**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chinese analysts also closely …..iddle East through the South China Sea.31</span>__**
**//[ ] China perceives Japanese naval bases as key to US regional power//**
**//Wall Street Journal, June 2, 2010//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __[Yuka Hayashi, Jacob M. Schlesinger, “Japan PM Resigns In Flap on Okinawa”, Pro Quest, Access, Date- July 14, 2010]__</span> 
**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This emerging discourse offers ….. of U.S. forward presence in Japan.</span>__**


===**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">vs Drones - Grapevine</span>**=== 



====**__Topicality - Substantial__**==== 
**__A. Interpretation –__**
**__Substantially means including the main part__**
**__WORDS AND PHRASES, 1964, p. 818.__**
**__<span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">“Substantially” means</span></span> in substance<span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">; … the</span></span> material or <span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">essential part</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span>__**
**__Presence refers to personnel stationed in a region__**
**__<span class="copyrightdescription">The Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military, 2 (by Oxford University Press, Inc. All rights reserved, republished and cited as “US Military Dictionary” at: </span>http://www.answers.com/topic/presence)__**
**__<span class="tabtitle"><span style="color: black;">US Military Dictionary:</span></span> <span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">presence</span></span>__ //n.//__a group … : //maintain a presence in the region.//__**
**__B. Violation – the aff removes drones out of Afghanistan – not the personell stationed in Afghanistan__**
**__C. Voting Issue__**
**__1. limits – including weapons aff explodes the neg’s research burden – we would have to prepare for obscure affs that have no effect on personell in the topic countries__**
**__2. ground – all of our links are based off of them reducing forces in the countries – not the weapons that they use__**
**__3. effects – they don’t mandate a reduction in troops – they remove the weapons that allows for future reductions in troops – that destroys limits, mixes burdens, and makes topicality probabilistic__**


====**__Transparency CP__**==== 

**//Text: The United States federal government should make public its policy of targeted killings and release all necessary classified information of targeted killings that occur in topically designated areas. The United States federal government should publicly clarify all rules and legal basis for targeted killings in topically designated areas, and establish a publicly available clear-review process for any use of targeted killing. The United States federal government should cancel the use of targeted killings in topically designated areas and only use targeted killing as a policy of last resort.//**

**//CP shifts targeted killing to a transparent policy of last resort- strengthens international legitimacy//**

**//Machon 06//** __– Major in US Army and researcher__ 
**__(5/25/06, “Targeted Killing as an Element of U.S. Foreign Policy in the War on Terror” pg online @ [http://www.fas.org/irp/eprint/machon.pdf]//au)//__**
**//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">To maintain international legitimacy</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and … in the war on terror. </span>__//**


====**//__START Politics__//**==== 
**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Start will pass – bipart support and Obama is committed to ratify it </span>//**
**//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;">Reuter 9/10/10 (“Shultz, Albright tell Senate to OK START treaty,” [[http://af.reuters.com/article/energyOilNews/idAFN0921748420100910]]) </span>__//**
**//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Two former U.S. secretaries of state, a Republican and a Democratic, urged the Senate on Friday to promptly approve an arms control treaty</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> with Russia, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">saying that to delay it undermined U.S. national security</span>. George Shultz and Madeleine Albright also rapped senators who have demanded more government funding for the U.S. nuclear arsenal as a condition for backing the new START treaty with Moscow. "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Now is the time to act</span>," Shultz and Albright wrote in an op-ed article in The Washington Post. It was also signed by former senators Gary Hart and Chuck Hagel. "Delaying this treaty over an unrelated matter undermines our national security," they wrote. In any case, they added, Obama has proposed a 15 percent increase over current spending levels for modernizing the U.S. nuclear infrastructure. Shultz was secretary of state under Republican President Ronald Reagan, and Albright held the post under Democratic President Bill Clinton. Former senator Hart is a Democrat; Hagel, a Republican. President Barack Obama signed the new START treaty with Russia in April. It commits the former Cold War foes to reducing deployed nuclear warheads by about 30 percent and is one of the central planks of Obama's nuclear policy. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The president wants it ratified this year. The document is expected to be approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee next week, where it has at least one Republican supporter, Senator Richard Lugar</span>.</span></span>__//**
**//Plan unpopular – Drone Strikes are politically popular – plan would devastate Obama’s political capital//**
**//NYT 5/14//** //__(5/14/10, “A Legal Debate As C.I.A. Stalks A U.S. Jihadist” pg online @ lexisnexis__//__au)__ 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**__But like the debate over … is banned by executive order.__** </span>

**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political Capital is key Obama needs to find 67</span>//**



**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Hill 6/10/10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">before august”, by Michael O’Brien]</span>//**



**"It is imperative that … __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">be punted until next year.</span>__**

**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">START key to improving U.S. Russian relations and stopping nuclear proliferation </span>//**


**//John Isaacs 09//** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">//[//</span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">New Start Treaty Increases U.S. Security”]</span>**//
//**New <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">START is a key part … </span>**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> reigning in Iran’s nuclear program. </span>
**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. Russian relations solve every impact </span>//**


**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CFR Task Force 2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>//**



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Since the dissolution of the … Russia are on a positive track.</span>**
**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. Russian tensions spill over globally and risk major power wars </span>//**


**//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CFR Task Force 2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>//**


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Over time, accumulating <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">disagreements between … </span>East—<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">can affect the outcome.</span></span>**


====**__Case Neg__**==== 
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">1. Drone operators aren’t ethically detached from warfare</span>__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">John </span>__//Radsan//** //( director of the National Security Forum and a professor at the William Mitchell College of Law) 7/17/**10**// __“ Drones Lend Dangerous Silence To War” http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128584729__ 
**It does seem that its … as a part of our strategy__.__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">2. Drone Warfare inevitable its an integral part of the military</span>__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Greg </span>__//Bruno//** //7/19/**10**// __“ U.S. Drone Activities in Pakistan” Council on Foreign Relations http://www.cfr.org/publication/22659/us_drone_activities_in_pakistan.html__ 
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">It's unclear how many … </span>__lives__," predicts the U.S. army (PDF).__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">3. There is no unique Internal Link-ICBM’s bombers dropping bombs and every other military apparatus incorporates a degree of detachment from the victim.</span>__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">4. Robotic detachment substantially minimizes wartime atrocities</span>__**
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">P. W. </span>__//Singer//** //( the director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings) Winter 20**09**// __New Atlantis “ Military Robots and the Laws of War” lexis__ 
**__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In some ways, this seems … as if playing a video game." </span>__**

**//Drones are successful now- they are key to the global war on terror//**
**//Speigel News 10//** __(3/12/10, “Drones are lynchpin of Obama’s war on terror” pg online @ [http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,682612,00.html]__ **//__au)__//**
**//__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is the value … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">so-called global war on terror.</span>//**
**//Winning now- Drones are killing terrorism, gathering intelligence, and are less damaging to civilians//**
**//Asian News International 10//**//__- (1/9/10, “Drone strikes in Pak tribal areas effective part of US anti-terrorism strategy: McCain” pg online @ lexisnexis__//__au)__ 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**__US Senator John McCain has …__** </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">out those operations</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he added. </span>__**

**//Drone strikes are comparatively better than ground troops//**
**//Baltimore Sun 6/7//** __(6/7/10, “Death From The Skies; Our View: Despite U.N. Criticism, U.S. Should Continue Drone Strikes” pg online @ lexisnexis__ **//__au)__//**
**//__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr. </span>__Alston's report doesn't suggest … __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">one U.N. suggestion the U.S. should ignore.</span>__//**

**//Drones allow effective intelligence and limit civilian casualties- CIA prove//**
**//International News 7/6 __(7/6/10, Khalid Khokar, “The fallouts of drone attacks” pg online @ [http://www.thenews.com.pk/daily_detail.asp?id=249012]__//__au)__**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">__CIA Director__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __Leon__ </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">__Panetta__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__, without … in using such lethal weapons.__</span></span>**
**//Drones provide live intelligence- helps the strategy on the ground//**
**//Bloomberg 7/19//** __(7/19/10, “Boeing Co. Drones Play Pivotal Role in War on Taliban, Al-Qaeda” pg online @ [http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-07-19/boeing-co-drones-play-pivotal-role-in-war-on-taliban-al-qaeda.html]**//au)//**__
**//__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Video and photos from Boeing Co. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… </span>make adjustments on the fly.”//**

**//Drones remain unnoticed and provide intelligence- they are key to military interoperability//**
**//Drew 10//**//__- NYT Correspondent to Pentagon and Military analyst__//
//**__(2/19/10, “Drones Are Playing a Growing Role in Afghanistan” New York Times, pg online @ [http://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/20/world/asia/20drones.html]__**//**__au)__**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__The use of the__ </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">drones … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the profusion of video. </span>__**

**//Drones are key to combat terrorism- Operations are safer and efficient//**
**//CNN 10//** __(1/7/10, “U.S. senators laud use of drones against suspected militants” pg online @ [http://edition.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/01/07/afghanistan.senators.drones/index.html]__ **//__au)__//**
**//Missiles shot from <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">pilotless planes … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the U.S. Embassy in </span>__Kabul__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__//**
**//Drones are critical to deny terrorists safe havens and maintain stability//**
**//Washington Times 10//** //(1/28/10, “Violence heats up in bitter Afghan winter; U.S. fortifies in mountains” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Thursday, Sens. John </span>__McCain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">us in the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates."</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]