===== ===== 
[[toc]]
=Contact Me= 
Sorry about the lack of cites, i'll be trying to put them up but everytime i try more than 1 card it freezes, so if i just give up or if you just want me to send you cites since they are saved but just won't post, email me @ [[mailto:matt-man-111@hotmail.com|matt-man-111@hotmail.com ]]
and i'll be more than happy to share neg cites :)
=Affirmative= 
==Prostitution 1AC - same all year== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">O**bservation 1 is Inherency** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, no disads- Troop drawdowns in South Korea are inevitable- confirmed by the DOD. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Lee 2010** Jong-Heon, United Press International Correspondent, 2/4/10, UPI, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2010/02/04/seoul_seeks_extended_us_protection/2951. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The United States had maintained….. the concept of "strategic flexibility." </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">But, South Korea’s wartime control delay ensures the continuance of U.S. military presence. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Seo and Lim 2010** Eunkyung Bomi Bloomberg staff writers, , Businessweek, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-06-26/u-s-s-korea-delay-wartime-control-transfer-to-2015-update1-.html. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">June 27 (Bloomberg) -- South Korea agreed ….. condemnation of North Korea. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Thus Misty and I present the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its ground troops from South Korea.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 2 is Subordination of the Body </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A. Prostitution </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Despite the “zero tolerance” policy and executive orders, military prostitution and immunity from prosecution for sex crimes continues in the context of Korea causing unspeakable violence against local women and children. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk, 2008** (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Military prostitution continues….. during the Vietnam War. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, despite recent reform efforts and policy change, US military presence in South Korea encourages prostitution. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kloer 2010** Feb. 9 (Amanda, “Sex Trafficking High Around U.S. Military Bases Abroad” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/sex_trafficking_high_around_us_military_bases_abroad) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Serving in the United States military…..U.S. government and Korean government policy </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B. Trafficking and Rape </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thousands of women are trafficked in South Korea as sex slaves. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Feminist News, 02** (Feminist News, September 9, 2002, Thousands of Women Forced Into Sexual Slavery For US Servicemen in South Korea) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Since the mid 1990s…. indentured servants," the report reads. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Human Trafficking is structured into the US-Korean relationship. Legal privileges, governmental protection, and material indulgence provide soldiers with an ample supply of fresh bodies of local women. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**K.I.W.C.T 2001** Korea International War Crimes Tribunal (New York Report on US Crimes in Korea 1945-2001 “Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea” http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm.T.K) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Crimes committed by US soldiers…. only exacerbates the unfair situation. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This results in rape and stigmatization. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk and Francis in 2000** (Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, Founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism. “Redefining Security: Women Challenge US Military Policy and Practice in East Asia” Berkeley Women’s Law Journal, 2000, v15, pg. 229) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The women work from early…. as "little brown f *g machines."(n105) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The effects of rape are compounded by South Korean cultural expectations. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Jensen 2009** (Jessica E, “Patriarchy and the Comfort Women”, http://www.hum.utah.edu/hgc/papers/jensen_jessica.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The Korean women internalized…the shock these women must have experienced. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Rape and sexual violence is spirit murder and destroys the value to life. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Wing 1997**.(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The multiple effect of violence …. individual or group basis. </span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C. Impacts </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This creates a method of domination and subordination throughout U.S. foreign policy. Military exploitation of women and children in South Korea creates a foundation for an expansion of patriarchal domination throughout the world. The 1AC is an act of withdrawal in explicit opposition to patriarchal control. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk, 2008** (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The power dynamics of militarism ….. that reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Patriarchy is the root of cause of all impacts </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Warren & Cady 1996** (Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 4, DJ </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy ….. in regional, national and global contexts. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 3 is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States abuses its status as “guardian” and allows a self-interested South Korean government to sacrifice women in the name of masculine security. The 1AC is crucial to set an example of ending the sacrifice of the individual in the name of military security objectives. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Moon 1997** Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">U.S.-Korea kijich'on prostitution …..bury them more deeply in silence. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Legal reforms fail and the governments have already taken a stance against sex-trafficking within the public sphere but military camp town prostitution still slips through the cracks- the plan is critical to end status quo hypocrisy and open avenues of change. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Dujisin 2009**, Zoltan, July 7 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence”, Inter Press Service News Agency, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556 </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Since 1945, U.S. troops ……hail from Southeast Asian countries. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Our conception of power relations enables transformative possibilities for emancipation that breaks down the oppressor/oppressed dichotomy and opens up space for alternative voices and silenced perspectives to work within the state and create realistic change </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**White 1992**, JD @ Harvard Law, (Lucie, 77 Cornell L. Rev. 1499, Sept) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The second reason that ….. microdynamics of everyday life. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 4 is our Framework- The role of the Ballot is to endorse the policy option with the best methodology. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Feminism is the best method- </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Debating foreign policy without examining masculine assumptions is flawed. A feminist analysis is a prerequisite to solving conflicts. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Enloe 2000** (Cynthia Enloe, professor of government and women’s studies at Clark University, Masculinity As Foreign Policy Issue, THE PROGRESSIVE RESPONSE, Volume 5, Number 36 October 2000.) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Foreign policy is debated ….. Defense Department came up with an “alternative.” </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional international relation theories have failed us – status quo military presence in Asia is an extension of a militaristic mindset that focuses on security at the expense of more personal forms of suffering. Any productive investigation into this year’s topic must begin with an interrogation of this force through a gendered lens. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Tickner 1992 (**J. Anne Tickner, Associate Professor of Political Science at the College of the Holy Cross, GENDER IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, 1992, https://wwwc.cc.columbia.edu/sec/dlc/ciao/book/tickner/tickner12.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The dramatic events of the late 1980s …..the way in which we think about and engage in international politics are dismantled. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Finally, vote affirmative for our method and our concrete political proposal. Demands on the state are necessary for reform, while radical gestures ensure the continuation of the status quo. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Nussbaum 1999,** (Martha, Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, 2-22-1999, ‘The New Republic,’ http://www.akad.se/Nussbaum.pdf, Acessed 6/25/10) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"> YOU </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">In Butler, resistance is always imagined as personal, ….. Feminism demands more and women deserve better. </span>

=Negative= 
=Kritiks= 
==Fem K== 
A) Methodology comes first.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bartlett 1990</span></span> (Katharine T., Professor of Law @ Duke University, (//Feminist Legal Methods//, Harvard Law Review, February)


<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Feminists have developed extensive critiques of law n2 and proposals for legal reform. n3 Feminists have had much less to say, however, about what the "doing" of law should entail and what truth status to give to the legal claims that follow. These </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">methodological issues matter because methods shape one's view of the possibilities for legal practice and reform. Method "organizes the apprehension of truth; it determines what counts as evidence and defines what is taken as verification." n4 Feminists cannot ignore method, because if they seek to challenge existing structures of power with the same methods that [*831] have defined what counts within those structures, they may instead "recreate the illegitimate power structures [that they are] trying to identify and undermine." n5 Method matters also because without an understanding of feminist methods, feminist claims in the law will not be perceived as legitimate or "correct." I suspect that many who dismiss feminism as trivial or inconsequential misunderstand it. Feminists have tended to focus on defending their various substantive positions or political agendas, even among themselves. Greater attention to issues of method may help to anchor these defenses, to explain why feminist agendas often appear so radical (or not radical enough), and even to establish some common ground among feminists. As feminists articulate their methods, they can become more aware of the nature of what they do, and thus do it better. Thinking about method is empowering. When I require myself to explain what I do, I am likely to discover how to improve what I earlier may have taken for granted. In the process, I am likely to become more committed to what it is that I have improved</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This likelihood, at least, is a central premise of this Article and its primary motivation<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% gray;">.</span></span></span>


B) The 1AC engages in Masculine IR- Their security discourse results in physical manifestations of patriarchy and must be rejected
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickner 2001</span></span> J. Anne, prof of IR @ USC Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era pg 52, DJ
<span style="text-align: justify;">Does the fact that <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">states' national-security policies are often legitimated by appealing to masculine characteristics, such as power and self-help, mean that certain types of foreign-policy behaviors—standing tall, rather than wimping out—are seen as more legitimate than others</span></span>? Could it be that <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">men who, in the role of defense experts, must employ tough “masculine” language and suppress any “feminized” thoughts when constructing strategic options, come to regard more cooperative choices as unthinkable and co- operative behavior as unlikely</span></span>? 58 Carol Cohn claims that the language we use shapes the way we view the world and thus how we act on it. <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Her analysis of the language of U.S. security experts, whose ideas have been important for mainstream security studies, suggests that this masculine-gendered discourse is the only permissible way of speaking about national security if one is to be taken seriously by the strategic community. This rational, disembodied language precludes discussion of the death and destruction of war, issues that can be spoken of only in emotional terms stereotypically associated with women. In other words, the limits on what can be said with the language of strategic discourse constrains our ability to think fully and well about national security. </span></span>In their analysis of U.S. policy on bombing Indochina during the Vietnam War, Jennifer Milliken and David Sylvan examine the discourse of U.S. policymakers. They claim it was gendered. 59 When policymakers spoke or wrote about South Vietnam, it was portrayed as weak and feminized, its population as hysterical and childlike; the North Vietnamese, on the other hand, were characterized as brutal fanatics—as manifesting a perverted form of masculinity. The authors claim that bombing policy, responding to these gendered portrayals, was different in each case. While not denying the reality of what policymakers do, Milliken and Sylvan, like Cohn, claim that <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">words have power and, therefore, consequences; the way in which policymakers and scholars construct reality has an effect on how they act upon and explain that reality. Gender-differentiated images are often used in foreign policy to legitimate certain options and discredit others.</span></span> Therefore, Walt's aspiration for separating the “political” from the “scientific” is questionable. In other words, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">theories cannot be separated from political practice.</span></span></span>


C) case specific Link

D) Root cause of war
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warren & Cady 1996</span></span> (Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 4, DJ
<span style="text-align: justify;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional system is found in the behaviors to which it gives rise, (c), and the unmanageability (d), which results. For example, in the United States, current estimates are that one out of every three or four women will be raped by someone she knows; <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">globally, rape, sexual harassment, spouse-beating</span></span>, and sado-masochistic pornography <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are examples of behaviors practiced, sanctioned</span></span>, or <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">tolerated within patriarchy. In the realm of environmentally destructive behaviors, strip-mining, factory farming, and pollution of the air, water, and soil are instances of behaviors maintained and sanctioned within patriarchy. They, too, rest on the faulty belief that is okay to “rape the earth,” that it is “man’s God-given right” to have dominion</span></span> (that is, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">domination) over the earth, that nature has only instrumental value, that environmental destruction is the acceptable price we pay for “progress.” And the presumption of warism, that war is a natural, righteous, and ordinary way to impose dominion on a people or nation, goes hand in hand with patriarchy and leads to dysfunctional behaviors of nations and ultimately to international unmanageability. Much of the current “unmanageability” of contemporary life in patriarchal societies, is then viewed as a consequence of a patriarchal preoccupation</span></span> with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically male-gender-identified beliefs, values, attitudes, and assumptions. Included <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">among these real-life consequences are precisely those concerns with nuclear proliferation, war, environmental destruction, and violence towards women</span></span>, which many feminist see as the logical outgrowth of patriarchal thinking. In fact, it is often only though observing these dysfunctional behaviors—the symptoms of dysfunctionality—that one can truly see that and how patriarchy serves to maintain and perpetuate them. <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When patriarchy is understood as a dysfunctional system, this “unmanageability” can be seen for what it is—as a predictable and thus logical consequence of patriarchy.</span></span> The theme that <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">global environmental crisis, war, and violence generally are predictable and logical consequences of sexism and patriarchal culture</span></span> is pervasive in ecofeminist literature. Ecofeminist Charlene Spretnak, for instance, argues that “a militarism and warfare are continual features of a patriarchal society because they reflect and instill patriarchal values and fulfill needs of such a system. <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Acknowledging the context of patriarchal conceptualizations that feed militarism is the first step toward reducing their impact and preserving the earth</span></span>”. Stated in terms of the foregoing model of patriarchy as a dysfunctional social system, the claim by Spretnak and other feminists take on a clearer meaning: <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Patriarchal conceptual frameworks legitimate impaired thinking</span></span> (about women, national and regional conflict, the environment) <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">which is manifested in behaviors which</span></span>, if continued, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">will make life on earth</span></span> difficult, if not <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">impossible</span></span>. It is a stark message, but it is plausible. Its plausibility lies in understanding the conceptual roots of various women-nature-peace connections in regional, national and global contexts.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">E)The alternative is to embrace a purely genealogical criticism of gender’s role in politics. This is the only way we can begin to break down the role of gender in the military.</span>
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Koikari 2008</span></span> (Mire, Assistant Professor in Women’s Studies Program @ University of Hawai’i at Manoa, “Pedagogy of Democracy”, RCB)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="small">Like other historical narratives, however, the stories of women and the occupation are complex and contested. An entirely different interpretation, which actually predates the</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">women’s</span></span> <span class="small">studies’</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">analysis, focuses on the experiences of working-class women</span></span><span class="small">, and on the antilabor policies that the occupa- tion authorities and the collaborationist Japanese government pursued. These studies conclude that</span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> the occupation was</span></span> <span class="small">essentially</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">oppressive and exploitative, resulting in the curtailment of working-class women’s union activism and their economic and political rights,</span></span><span class="small"> and denying Japanese women the opportunity to achieve genuine democratic social transformation.20 According to this argument, the pledge to “democratize Japan” was a false promise, and the o ccupation h indered, r ather t han p romoted, J apanese w omen’s dem o- cratic ema ncipation. This more critical argument, however, has been over- shadowed by the narrative of successful gender</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">democratization</span></span><span class="small">, which as I have shown,</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">has</span></span> <span class="small">far more </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">institutional support from women’s studies,</span></span><span class="small"> as well as the stamp of authenticity from the American women occupiers. A su ggestive, a lthough n ot f ully de veloped, p erspective i s offered i n a short article by Yoda Seiichi, who argues thatrather than ge</span>nuine democ- ratization, the major objectives of the occupation were the demilitarization, modernization, an d tr ansformation <span class="small">o f J apan in to an e ffective ally in the emerging Cold War. Instead of the occupation’s gender reform accomplishing the liberation of Japanese women or radicalizing Japanese gender relations, the intention was actually to create Japanese women who would be enfran- chised and conservative allies for the United States. Posing as the liberator of Japanese women is seen as a U.S. strategy to gain the allegiance of women in the occupied country.</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Yoda’s work points to the need to examine gendered strategies of the occupiers, not simply women’s experiences, in analyzing the U.S. occupation </span></span>of Japan.<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> It calls for a careful and systematic study of how the concept of gender</span></span> <span class="small">(i.e., a binary opposition between the meanings associated with women or femininity and men or masculinity)</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">was mobilized to inform the occupiers’ discourses and practices.</span></span><span class="small">21 Yoda’s insight concerning gendered dynamics of the occupation is further developed in a number of studies that examine U.S. Cold War cultural forma- tion. Lisa Yoneyama’s recent article analyzes U.S. media portrayals of the occupation’s gender reform and argues that during the occupation</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a feminist discourse of </span></span>Japanese w omen’s <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">emancipation and rehabilitation</span></span><span class="underline"> was </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">mobilized to disseminate an image of new</span></span><span class="small">—feminized and pacified—</span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan and to affirm and justify Cold War U.S. hegemony both domestically and internationally.</span></span><span class="small"> Such understanding of the occupation also depended on and recir- culated t he f eminist i mperialist n otion t hat Western, e specially A merican, women were more emancipated, progressive, and thus superior. Far from the moment o f w omen’s l iberation, sh e su ggests, t he U .S. o ccupation o f J apan </span>should be examined as an occasion where the figure of Japanese women was strategically deployed to articulate U.S. nationalism and imperialism in the Cold War context. Caroline Chung Simpson’s An Absent Presence: Japanese Americans in P ostwar A merican Cult ure, 1 945—1960, N aoko Sh ibusawa’s America’s Geisha Ally: Reimagining the Japanese Enemy, and Christina Klein’s Cold War Orientalism: Asia in the Middlebrow Imagination, 1945—1961, also show t he sig nificance o f g ender i n A merican C old W ar f ormation w here American self was frequently imagined as masculine and others (i.e., Japa- nese Americans, Japanese<span class="small">, and Asians) as feminine. 22 </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The studies on women and the U.S. occupation</span></span> <span class="small">I have r eviewed here</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">provide important historical information, and often drastically different conclusions,</span></span><span class="small"> but their analyses are insufficient, and even flawed, in a number of ways. Pharr and other scholars who define the occupation as a successful feminist reform implicitly rely on an essentialist assumption about women: American and Japanese women naturally shared, because of gender, the same political v isions a nd i nterests—the fight a gainst pa triarchal do mination, whether b y t he ma le-dominant J apanese s tate o r t he ma le-dominant U .S. occupation. Such an argument conceals a multitude of hierarchies, as well as complex negotiations, that existed between women of the victorious occu- pying nation and those of the defeated and occupied. Furthermore, both the studies that focus on middle-class women’s experiences and the studies of their working-class counterparts each draw their conclusions about the occupation by wrongly generalizing class-specific experiences to the entire population of Japanese women. Both fail to consider the category of “Japanese women” as heterogeneous and diverse, segmented by class, race, and other workings of power. Similarly, their implicit assumption that the American occupiers were a c oherent, h omogeneous c ategory r esults i n a s tatic u nderstanding o f t he occupation. A n en ormous, b ureaucratic r uling b ody a ssembled i n e xtreme haste, the occupation forces in fact constituted a diverse, conflict-ridden, and often incoherent and disorderly governing authority. Perhaps m ore f undamentally,</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the existing occupation studies fail to explore</span></span> <span class="small">in a systematic and extensive manner</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the occupation as a gendered and gendering political process</span></span><span class="small">. A s J oan S cott a rgues i n Gender an d th e Politics of History</span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, taking gender as a category of analysis goes far beyond simply uncovering information about women. Scott defines gender as a socially constructed binary opposition between the meanings associated with masculine and those with feminine</span></span><span class="small">.</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Gender as a meaning system constitutes “a primary way of signifying relationships of powe</span></span><span class="underline">r</span><span class="small">” or “a primary field within which or by means of which power is articulated,” and “structure(s) perception a nd t he c oncrete and symbolic organization of all ssocial l ife.”23 Thus</span> <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">incorporating gender as a category of analysis leads to a drastic shift in historical studies</span></span><span class="small">. As she points out, </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="text-decoration: none;">gender analysis provides a way to decode meaning and to understand the complex connections among various forms of human interactions. When historians look for the ways in which the concept of gender legitimizes and constructs social relationships, they develop insight into the reciprocal nature of gender and society and into the particular and contextually specific ways in which politics constructs gender and gender constructs politics.</span></span>24</span>


=Politics= 

==Berkeley SKFTA against JD (Only politics scenario read this year)== 
SKFTA will pass – using capital to line up votes now
<span class="underline">NYT 2/4</span> (2/4/11, " More Trade Follies ", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/02/05/opinion/05sat2.html)

B. Link – Military withdrawals abroad spur fierce opposition – defies conventional Washington wisdom, perceived as security threat and sparks intense lobbying from business and military 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ENGELHARDT 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com , “Yes, We Could…. Get Out! – Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq” Atlantic Free Press -- lexis]</span>
And, Capital is key to overcome opposition 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Knowledge@Wharton</span></span>, the online business journal of the Wharton School, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1/12/2011</span></span>. “U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?” http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671


and impact changes every round