==[[toc]]== 
=Affirmative= 
==Japan 1AC== 
===1AC- TFA State=== 
[[media type="scribd" key="50656347" ARG0="key-1f3hgmzsjuklkpnqw970" height="600" width="800"]]
===Ecocide Scenario vs Thorndale=== 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Alliance </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The planned Futenma Replacement Facility will decimate the natural environment—U.S. military presence will be the death knell of one of the world’s most sacred ecosystems. </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Center for Biological Diversity—a national, nonprofit conservation organization with more than 240,000 members and online activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places, et al., co-signed by representatives of conservation, animal protection, and peace and justice groups representing more than 10 million Americans, 2009 (“RE: Proposed U.S. Military Air Base Expansion Near Henoko, Okinawa,” Letter To The Obama Administration, December 3rd, Available Online at http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/ mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf) </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The island of Okinawa has been called the “Galápagos of the East”....ensure that the Okinawa dugong has a fighting chance at celebrating its importance in 2010 and years to come. </span></span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Alliance </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This independently leads to extinction </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> David Diner, JAG Corps, United States Army, Winter 1994, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, p. 170-173 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1. Why Do We Care? -- No species ha....the rivets from an aircraft’s wings, mankind [humankind] may be edging closer to the abyss. </span></span></span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Alliance </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">No turns- adaption fails in the ocean and independently leads to extinction </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, 2003 (“Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” McGeorge Law Review (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis) </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for ......the Black Sea is not necessarily unique. </span></span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Alliance </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Even if our framing of human life is bad—overlooking the anthropocentric uniqueness kills all indifference and causes ecocatastrophe </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pölling-Vocke ‘05. (Bernt, Master of International Relations. Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand, “’The End of Poverty’: The globalization of the unreal and the impoverishment of all,” http://www.hockeyarenas.com/berntpv/jeffreysachs/endofpovertydeepecology.pdf) </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">These world affairs are “dark”, “and the old ...... but its “steps are reformatory”291.</span></span>


===<span style="line-height: 19px;">Russia Econ Scenario Broken @ Harvard</span>=== 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Territorial Disputes </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">And, Specifically U.S. military buildup in the region encourages Russian aggression over the Kuril islands </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">John Chan 2/17/2011( “Japan and Russia in diplomatic row over disputed Kuril Islands” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2011/feb2011/jpru-f17.shtml]]</span> msolice) </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Behind the conflict between Russia and Japan is the .... guarded by the Kuril Island chain.” </span></span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Kuril Island disputes jeopardizes Japanese economic aid in the Far East and Russian economic stability </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Anderson 05 Department of Political Science at the University of Victoria, 10-3-5 (Andrea, “South Kuriles/Northern Territories: A Stumbling-block in Russia-Japan Relations,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.prokarelia.net/fi/?x=artikkeli&article_id=600&author=62]]</span>) </span></span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The current state of Russo-Japanese ...</span></span>and even loss of human lives (in cases when Russian coast guard fires at Japanese fishing vessels).




<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC- Territorial Disputes </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russian economic decline causes nuclear war </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” online:</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]]</span> \ Will history repeat itself? The Russia of today … that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence. </span></span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Will history repeat itself? The Russia.....</span></span>observed firsthand how a society with bright, well-ed...
===New 1AC Cards vs University Harvard Rd 6=== 

12. Desecuritization Cedes Security to the right - Political engagement is Necessary
Olav. F. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Knudsen</span></span>, Prof @ Södertörn Univ College, ‘<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span></span> [//Security Dialogue// 32.3, “Post-Copenhagen Security Studies: Desecuritizing Securitization,” p. 366] 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> final </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; text-decoration: none;">danger in focusing on the state is</span></span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 8pt;"> t...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; text-decoration: none;"> p**olicymaking**, **unheeded by any but the most uncritical minds.**</span></span>



**Threats real—default to expert consensus**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Knudsen</span></span> **1**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">– PoliSci Professor at Sodertorn (Olav, Post-Copenhagen Security Studies, Security Dialogue 32:3) </span>

Moreover, I have a problem with the underlying implication that it is unimportant whether states 'really' face dangers from other states or groups. __In the Copenhagen school, threats are seen as .......____<span class="underline"> not least to find adequate democratic procedures for dealing with them.</span>__


===__<span class="underline">New 1AC Cards vs Westlake NFL Districts Semis</span>__=== 

__Social movements kill heg__

**Mersereau, 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Adam, served in the enlisted and officer ranks of the United States Marine Corps, National Review Online, 1/15) </span>

Peace activists<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> may be well intentioned; but at their worst, ....... </span>dirty work<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that may be </span>necessary to achieve<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> another extended period of </span>peace. 



<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**1.** **Normative thought is inevitable – discussing the rule of law is key to solve** </span>
**Mootz, 1994**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Francis J, Associate Professor of Law at Western New England College School of Law, “The Paranoid Style in Contemporary Legal Scholarship”, Houston Law Review, Fall, Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The differences between my conception of postmodern legal ,....</span>[[#r38]][[http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1283542274691&returnToKey=20_T10044970237&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.762913.0055964224#n38|**n]]......<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that our experience and understanding of reality is always linguistically mediated in a shared realm of normative public dialogue.</span>



<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**2.** **Subjects can’t be free from the law – attempts to break away result in psychosis – destroying personal agency** </span>
**Carlson and Schroeder, 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeanne and David, Cardozo Law Professors, 57 U Miami L. Rev 767)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beyond laying down the law, another normative program emerges....</span>s precisely not to let go of the symbolic order, for that would be the death of subjectivity, not its liberation**.**




=== === 
=Negative= 

==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Note:**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Due to partner switch i am just going to post the neg stuff from previous partnership...</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I am too lazy to update this. if you want cites to SPECIFIC arguments (requests that are along the lines of: can i have all the cites you read at st. marks? will not be responded to).</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stuff we go for:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">security k</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">consult nato</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">china detterence</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">politics (start; ethanol; tax cuts)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">iran detterence</span>

==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Specific Rounds**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I can't remember stuff past this tournament....</span>
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Round Rock**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 2- ??- PMCs</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- PMC not Military, T- Combat troops, START, XO, Consult NATO</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- T- Combat Troops, XO, Consult</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- START</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- T-Combat</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 3- WW LW- TNW- Terror, Iran, Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- Detterence, Security Guarantee CP and Russia Adv CP merged into one, Consult NATO, START, Israel, Case on Terror and Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- Case and Israel</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- CP and START</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Israel and Case</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Quarters- ???- Burn Pits (lolz)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC-T- Must be Troops, T- OSPEC(lolz), Security, NATO, START</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- Security</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- Both Ts</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Security</span>

===<span style="font-size: 22px; line-height: 33px;">UT</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 2- Round Rock: Japan Sonars- Biodiversity</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- Troops, START, Congress CP, ChinaCon Case on Biodiversity</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- T Troops, CP, ChinaCon, Case Defense</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- START, Case Turns</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- START, Case</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 3- St. Marks SG; SoKo- China and Korean War</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- Nearly All, T- Detterence, START, XO, Security, Case: NK and China Impact D, Ice Age</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC-T- Nearly All, XO, Security and Case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- START and Ice Age Turns</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Security</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 6- Benton; TNW- Terror and Russia Relations</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- Detterence, XO, START, Security, Israel DA, Case: Terror and Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- XO, Security, Case: Terror and Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- START</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Security</span>

===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Baylor Round Robin</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 1- Chapel- Iraq Colonialism </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T- Bases; SKFTA; XO; Stability/Heg Disad; Ethics K Case: Imperialism Good, Violence Turns </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- SKFTA, XO, K</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- Stability/ Heg DA, Case Stuffs</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Case Turns </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 3- Law Mag- TNW w/ Diplomacy and Russia adv</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- SKFTA, Long Deterrence CP, Security, Israel, Case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC-Case, CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- Israel </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Israel and Case</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 5- Westlake- Demand reduced Drones, adv: random stupid k stuff</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- Framework, SKFTA, Cede the Political, Ethics K, Case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- Case, SKFTA, K </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- FW and Cede the Political </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- K </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 7- Dulles- Counter Narcotics ADV</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC- T-combat, Dulles CP, SKFTA Case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NC- T, Case, CP </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NR- Kicked politics, impact turned a russia add-on</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR- Russia Impact Turns</span>

===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Harvard</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Round 2 vs Phoenix Military Academy ; Soko China and Korean War </span>
1NC- SKFTA, T- deterrence , PIC out of Modernizing SoKo forces, Security K, Prolif DA, Case D 
2NC- Case and K 
1NR- PTX 
2NR- K 

Round 3 vs Westminster TA; COIN 
1NC- T combat; Readiness CP, Securitty k, Skfta Case
2NC- K
1nR- T
2NR- T

Round 5 vs Dobson; SokO 
1NC- SKFta; security k, prolif disad; XO Case D; Norm on Case for the lulz 
2NC- K 
1NR- Norm
2NR0 Norm
===NFL Districts=== 
vs LBJ- coin aff
1nc- security, xo, skfta, t-combat case
2nr- xo politics

vs Round rock- sonar aff
1nc- deterrence, skfta, courts, t
2nr- skfta case 

vs westlake 
1NC skfta and case 
2NC Case (heg/security/terrorism turns0)

==Topicality== 

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**ASPEC**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">ASPEC 1NC Short</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Interpretation: The affirmative should specify the branch of government that implement their plan</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B. Violation: They don’t</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C. Vote Negative—</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1.Kills ground. They can say not us on ptx and cp flows</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. Crushes solvency debates—no in-depth solvency debates about the who,</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3. Lack of specification is severance—allows them to say not us</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">4. Vote neg on presumption—the usfg isn’t an actor</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Brovero in ‘94</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert; wake forest, http:www.wfu.edu/Student-organizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The problem is not that there is not a plan; this time there is one. ....</span>d of not reflecting the "real world."
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">T- Should=NAO</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Should is Now**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Summers 94</span></span> (Supreme Court Justice @ Oklahoma Supreme Court, "Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant," 11/8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker2fn14)**</span>

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">T- TNW</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A. Interpretation - Its implies ownership**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glossary of English Grammar Terms</span></span><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span></span> (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mine, yours, his, hers, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">its</span></span>, ours, theirs <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a......</span></span>Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B. Violation –</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear weapons in Turkey __belong__ to NATO.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meier</span></span>, 4-28-<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span></span> (Oliver, Berlin Information-center for Transatlantic Security statement coordinator, "NATO Nuclear Weapons Transfers,"<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.bits.de/public/articles/om280498.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mr. Chairman, we would like to draw attention to a cas.....<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> does not possess nuclear weapons."</span></span></span>



===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T- Bases</span>=== 

Military
Bases 1NC= Military presence should be defined as US bases
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meernik 94 </span></span>
Dr. James Meernik is Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas and Associate Editor of International Studies Quarterly. He is also Chair of the Department of Political Science. Dr. Meernik specializes in research on U.S. foreign policy and international criminal tribunals. His research has been published in //International Studies Quarterly//, the //Journal of Politics//, //Political Research Quarterly//, //Journal of Peace Research//, //Conflict Management and Peace Science//, //Journal of Conflict Resolution//, //International Criminal Law Review//, and the //American Journal of Political Science//. He is also author of //The Political Use of Foreign Military in U.S. Foreign Policy// (Ashgate Press) and co-editor of //Conflict Prevention and Peace Building in Post War Societies//, with Professor T. David Mason (Routledge Press). Dr. Meernik received his Ph.D. in Political Science from Michigan State University in 1992.
Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force Author(s): James Meernik Source: International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 1 (Mar., 1994), pp. 121-138 Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2600874]]

Nations possess a multitude of means by which th....<span class="underline"> furnishing of military aid to some state or organization, or (3) a prior use of force. </span>

The affirmative withdraws forces, but doesn’t’ withdraw bases

Vote neg
limits – bases are the most overt and predictable. Including all types of military forces devolves into defective weapon of the week or rotating out an incompetent unit.





===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**T- In- Throughout**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">‘In’ means throughout</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Words and Phrases, 1959</span></span>, p. 546</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">jurisdiction “in” their respective</span></span> counties to hear and determine all complaints, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughou</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">t</span></span>” such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>



===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**T- Combat**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A. Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Thomason, 2** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE?</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Our working definition of US overseas military presence.......__<span style="background-color: yellow;">evolving security operation or contingency should call for them</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Times,serif;">.</span></span>

===<span style="line-height: 23px;">T- Troops </span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) Interpretation - Presence means troops</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Harmon 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> – </span>US Army Major (William, “The Korean Question: Is There a Future for Forward-Based American Forces in a Unified Korea?,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA415880&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) (**All bolding is in the original)**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__In American__ securit....<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> by the engagement __and visibility of the forces__.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, Substantial means they must remove 50% of troops from the region</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY INSTA.......__ave been reassigned__ and moved to another installation.</span>




==<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 25px; line-height: 38px;">CPs </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; line-height: 23px;">Consult Nato</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc271275027]][[#_Toc271059292]][[#_Toc271058856]][[#_Toc271055779]][[#_Toc271055683]][[#_Toc271055565]][[#_Toc269845959]][[#_Toc269245138]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CP TEXT: The United States federal government should engage in prior and binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization regarding whether<span style="font-weight: normal;">(insert their asinine advocation)</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">They say yes-- pressure</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feith 03</span></span> (Douglas J; Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Statement on the Future of NATO; before the Committee on Armed Services United States Senate March 27, 2003; http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2003/March/Feith.pdf)AB</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I wish to make two points …within Europe than across the Atlantic. I.....<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> On issues of transatlantic concern, divisions appear more frequently within Europe than across the Atlantic</span></span></span>








<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc271275028]][[#_Toc271059293]][[#_Toc271058857]][[#_Toc271055780]][[#_Toc271055684]][[#_Toc271055566]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Failure to consult NATO on the our global security strategy collapses the alliance and political instability.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 04</span></span> (<span class="cardChar">Philip; the U.S. Senate confirmed Philip Gordon as assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs. He was a senior fellow at Brookings from 1999 to 2009. http://www.brookings.edu/views/articles/gordon/20040701.pdf)AB</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">DEAR FRIENDS. How did it come to this? <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I cannot remember a tim...</span></span>In exchange for a real seat at the table, the EU should agree not to try to constrain American power and instead accept the goal of strategic partnership with the US.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc269845960]][[#_Toc269245139]][[#_Toc271275029]][[#_Toc271059294]][[#_Toc271058858]][[#_Toc271055781]][[#_Toc271055685]][[#_Toc271055567]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear wars</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;">John <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, 19<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span></span> [Political Science Quarterly 109:5, p. 766-7]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects overlooked at least ..<span class="underline"> **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the existence of <span style="background-color: lime;">nuclear weapons</span></span>**</span>.11</span>
===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Atchison and Panetta CP vs Reagan**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">we now read this as a kritik.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc273651501]][[#_Toc273546702]][[#_Toc273546673]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc273546673]]Counter-Advocacy: Everyone in this room should discuss the affirmatives advocacy outside of policy debate.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The debate sphere is the wrong forum for their activism—it only scapegoats any competitive opposition and replaces focus on actual change with the instrumentalization of schools of thought and philosophies for the sake of winning a game this turns the case.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span></span> (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28-9)PS.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Downplaying the important role of competition and treating opponents as scapegoats for the failures of the community may increase the profile of the winning team and the community problem, but does little to generate the critical coalitions necessary to address the community problem, because the competitive focus encourages teams to concentrate how to beat the strategy with little regard for addressing the community problem.</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">An extreme example might include a team arguing that their opponents’ academic institution has a legacy of civil rights abuses and that the judge should not vote for them because that would be a community endorsement of a problematic institution</span></span>. This scenario is a bit more outlandish but not unreasonable if one assumes that each debate sould be about what is best for promoting solutions to diversity problems in the debate community<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">. If the debate community is serious about generating change, then it is more likely to occur </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">outside of traditional competitive debate</span></span>. When a team loses a debate because the judge decides it is better for the debate community for the other team to win, then they have sacrificed two potential advocates for change within the debate community. Creating change through wins generates backlash through losses. Some proponents are comfortable with generating backlash and argue that the reaction is evidence that the issue is being discussed. From our perspective, the discussion that results from these hostile situations is not a productive one where participants seek to work togerher for a common goal. Instead of giving up on hope for change and agitating for wins regardless of who is left behind, it seems more reasonable that the debate community should try the method of public argument that we teach in an effort to generate a discussion of necessary community changes. Simply put, debate competitions do not represent the best environment for community change because it is a competition for a win and only one team can win any given debate, whereas addressing systemic century-long community problems requires a tremendous effort by a great number of people.</span>
===1NC TNW CP vs Law Mag=== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">CP Text: </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should: </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>offer formal security guarantees to all countries in the Middle East, except Iran, to protect them in the event of Iranian aggression. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>inform Iran that the use of nuclear weapons will be met with a response that ends the current regime in Iran, and that an Iranian nuclear test constitutes a redline that could trigger stepped up United States attempts at regime change or United States attacks against Iranian oil assets. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Privately inform Israel that a strike on Iran will lead to a suspension of military and foreign aid </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Increase counter-terror co-operations and intelligence sharing with Russia </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increase economic engagement with Russia, including, but not limited to accepting one of Russia’s bids for entry into the World Trade Organization </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Create a alliance with Russia to engage rouge states such as Iran and North Korea </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">- </span><span style="color: black;">lift the numerical cap on H-1B visas</span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clarify its commitment to the Middle East by stating it will not withdraw Tactical Nuclear Weapons from Europe. </span>**</span>

Solves all of your Middle East instability and prolif baloney 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN”; http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March) </span>

<span class="underline">As the sole remaining superpower and guarantor ... from regional security. </span>


<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP</span>
1AC internal link evidence concedes 4 alternate ways to increase US-Russia relations 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nixon Center, 1AC Evidence, 03</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia. The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm|http://www.nixoncenter.org/ publications/monographs/FR.htm]]</span>)AB</span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Moving forward requires that Russian officials understand tha..</span></span> if Russia cooperates in stabilizing post-war Iraq, the U.S. should be “imaginative” in honoring Russian interests there.


<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP </span>
H-1B reform solve leadership 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huffington Post 2010</span></span> (Ed Hooper; Veteran Journalist; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ed-hooper/politics-trumping-visa-re_b_555596.html]]</span>; April 28th)[AB]
While Arizona's new immigration law is creating a national uproar, ...<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> amounts to the U.S. trading away its world leadership role in business, science and technology for party politics. </span></span>


<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP </span>
Only CP solves- plan kills security guarantees 
**Thränert ‘8** (Oliver, Senior Fellow – German Institute for International Security Affairs, Proliferation Analysis, “U.S. Nuclear Forces in Europe to Zero? Yes, but not Yet”, 12-10, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=22533&prog=zgp&proj=znpp) 
Second: Nonproliferation within NATO. The U.S. nucle..<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">capabilities of its own. </span></span>

Nuclear war 
**Sokolski ‘7** (Henry, Ex. Dir. Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, Formr Fellow – National Institute for Public Policy – Heritage, MA – U. Chicago, Keynote Address at conference, “The EU Facing Nuclear Weapons Challenges”, “What Nuclear challenges Might the EU Meet”, 6-14, http://www.npec-web.org/Presentations/20070616-Sokolski-Talk-AixEnProvence-Conference.pdf)
One country that might disagree with this view, though, is <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Turkey. It.....This will result in the building up a nuclear powder keg on Europe’s doorstep and significantly increase the prospect for nuclear terrorism and war.</span></span>

====2NC TNW CP vs Law Mag==== 
<span style="text-decoration: none;">***2NC CP Blocks*** </span>


A2: Perm- Do Both 
2.) Solvency Deficits: 
a.) Iran influence 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">S. Enders **Wimbsh, 1AC Evidence,** is a senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute **and** Christopher A. **Ford** is a senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-**2010** [“Perspectives upon a Nuclear Iran” Hudson Institute, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=6698]]</span>] AB </span>
<span class="underline">The presence or absence of a continued U.S. role in the Middle East will be a critical factor in how such regional dynamics develop. An America that remains active and engaged will have a powerful ability to influence the degree to which Iran’s nuclear empowerment is destabilizing</span>. 

b.) Relationships not enough—need presence; this also takes out their Turkey conflict mediation internal 
**Thompson et al ‘2** (James, Senior Research Staff Member, Robert J. Atwell, Robert Bovey, William E. Cralley, James Delaney, Michael P. Fischerkeller, Kongdan Oh Hassig, Charles Hawkins, and Gene Porter, Institute for Defense Analysis, Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD”, July, http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf) 
Based upon a variety of interviews with foreign representatives, they concluded that US presence, especially naval presence, **provides strong assurance value to friends and allies in many parts of the world.** The study team found that interviewees shared the view that US military presence is crucial to preserving stability, which in turn is crucial to regional economic growth, itself a US economic and national security interest. Many respondents were even more explicit about the linkage between military presence and the preservation, indeed enhancement, of their own and US economic interests. **This feeling was said to be widespread throughout each of the regions**. In 1995, Thomason et al. found two principal things: first, **US allies and friends indicated very clearly that they were more assured by greater, rather than less, US military presence**. Second, **in some parts of the world (Western Europe and Korea) land-based presence was considered much more helpful**, all things considered, than sea-based presence in providing assurance, whereas in other parts of the world (e.g., much of the Persian Gulf), just the opposite appeared to be true. Overall, friends and allies want help, presence, but on their own terms, which means, increasingly, as unobtrusively as possible in most instances; and they want to be recognized as political equals. [p. 8] As a part of the same study, Thomason et al. also conducted off-the-record interviews with approximately three dozen US security experts in the mid-1990s to assess the “assurance” and other values these experts assigned to various levels and types of US presence, power projection capability, and other factors (for a synopsis, see Thomason, 2001). Current and former Service chiefs, commanders in chief of Unified Commands, and other senior policy makers and diplomats were interviewed as to the effectiveness of various kinds of presence and other instruments of national power in promoting the principal objectives of presence. Overall, these US decision-makers saw reassurance of friends and allies as a vital part of our foreign policy and national security strategy. They viewed reassurance as a complex, ongoing process, calling for high-quality and, frequently, high-level attention. They cited continuous, face-to-face involvement and relationships—both military and civilian—as necessary in establishing the trust and understanding that underpins strong friendships, partnerships, and coalitions. Many of the interviewees noted that the establishment of an ongoing dialogue helps both parties to avoid misinterpreting one another’s intentions and contributes to an understanding of the way in which both parties think. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Strong personal relationships, while necessary, were by no means viewed as sufficient for reassurance.</span></span><span class="underline"> Most respondents said that an essential part of effective reassurance is a demonstrable, credible US ability to “be there” for friends and allies when they need specific help,</span> and the ability to provide assistance of the right kind at the right time. In short, there was virtual unanimity that some combat-credible presence forces were important to reassurance. <span class="underline">A number of respondents mentioned various forms and levels of ground forces as most helpful for reassurance purposes</span>. <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Others mentioned maritime assets as most helpful. Still others cited the importance of land-based air forces. Among these senior US decision-makers, a firm, widely shared belief was evident: strong, continuous, high-quality personal level interactions and relationships are necessary to promote the reassurance objective. But they are not sufficient. They need to be combined with some regular, credible evidence of US will and ability to be there to help when needed. On this latter point, however, no real consensus was evident regarding the essentiality of any one particular level (or type) of presence forces for effective reassurance. This finding may be explained in part by the possibility that what respondents viewed as “credible” may have been—at least broadly—a function of what they viewed as either the current or latent threat level in a particular region at the time. It may also have been due to genuine uncertainty as to what “works” to offset various perceived threat levels. </span>


<span style="text-decoration: none;">A2: Perm- Do Both </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">C.) Extended deterrence </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moran and Rusel 09 </span></span>(James Russell is a Senior Lecturer with the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php?title=Center_for_Contemporary_Conflict|Center for Contemporary Conflict]]</span> in the Department of National Security Affairs. Russell's expertise is "Persian Gulf policy and security; U.S. security strategy in the Persian Gulf and the Middle; Daniel Moran is Professor of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. “EXTENDED DETERRENCE, SECURITY GUARANTEES, AND NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION: STRATEGIC STABILITY IN THE GULF REGION”; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nps.edu/academics/sigs/ccc/conferences/recent/extendeddeterrenceOct09.pdf]]</span>; October)AB</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The concept paper that provided the starting point for the conference discussed the emergence of extended deterrence as a key strategic concept during the Cold War</span></span>, its contribution to the stability of deterrence overall, and its role in restraining nuclear proliferation among the allies and client states of the major nuclear powers. Discussion at the conference focused on how far the practices and inferences of extended nuclear deterrence during the Cold War could be extended to the Middle East, where regional politics are markedly different from those of Cold War Europe, and to an environment in which conventional deterrence is also important and not entirely subsumed within a framework of nuclear confrontation<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. One contributor proposed that successful extended deterrence required at least three components: adequate military capability, resolve to act in specified circumstances, and communication of that resolve to allies and potential adversaries</span></span>. Others noted that the history of extended deterrence in practice revealed the importance of Continuous, active engagement among security partners, including effective consultative mechanisms; <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Persistent military contact, cooperative planning, and engagement; A sustained U.S. military presence, which,</span></span> as several participants noted, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">has been declining</span></span> in recent years outside of Iraq; and Diverse political, cultural, and economic linkages that have characterized the Atlantic alliance since the 1950s. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Although effective extended deterrence must rest upon firm declaratory policies, the truly credible signaling of its reality could only be accomplished by these kind of continuous and diverse interactions </span></span>

c.) Plan kills Hegemony and causes Red Spread 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">S. Enders **Wimbsh, 1AC Evidence,** is a senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute **and** Christopher A. **Ford** is a senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-**2010** [“Perspectives upon a Nuclear Iran” Hudson Institute, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=6698]]</span>] AB </span>

<span class="underline">An America that withdraws from engagement — whether out of moralistic disdain for power politics, fear of Iranian nuclear weapons, financial insolvency in this era of trillion-dollar federal budget deficits, or simply from strategic fatigue — will cede the field to others</span>.<span class="underline">Fundamentally, Iran would likely aspire to fill a post-American power vacuum itself, claiming the de facto regional hegemony that its proud but insecure sense of historical self seems to demand. Other outsiders, however, might end up playing important roles. Putin-era Russia, which</span> is — not unlike Iran — a corrupt, grievance-nursing autocracy with revanchist dreams that imperil its neighbors’ security, <span class="underline">clearly seeks to reacquire its strategic leverage in the Middle East, a historic focus of Russia’s foreign policy</span>. Yet despite its ambitions, Russia is unlikely to possess sufficient capability to exercise great influence — though one should not entirely discount the Kremlin’s appetite for the kind of Middle Eastern troublemaking that would drive up oil prices with the aim of keeping the regime in Moscow afloat on a sea of petrodolla 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">A2: Perm- Do Both </span>
Global Nuclear War—Turns Case 
**Lieber ‘5** (Robert, Prof. Gov. and Int’l. Affairs – Georgetown, “The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century”, p. 53-54) 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Withdrawal</span> from foreign commitments might seem to be a means of evading hostility toward the United States, but the consequences <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">would</span> almost certainly <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">be harmful both to regional stability and to U.S. national interests</span>. Although Europe would almost certainly not see the return to competitive balancing among regional powers (i.e., competition and even military rivalry between France and Germany) of the kind that some realist scholars of international relations have predicted," elsewhere the dangers could increase. <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In Asia, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan would have strong motivation to acquire nuclear weapons – which they have the technological capacity to do quite quickly. Instability and regional competition could also escalate, not only between India and Pakistan, but also in Southeast Asia</span> involving Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, and possibly the Philippines. <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Risks in the Middle East would be likely to increase</span>, with regional competition among the major countries of the Gulf region (Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Iraq) as well as Egypt, Syria, and Israel. **<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Major regional wars, eventually involving the use of</span>** **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">w</span>**eapons of **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">m</span>**ass **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">d</span>**estruction **<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">plus</span>** human suffering on a vast scale, **<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">floods of refugees, economic disruption, and risks to oil supplies are all readily conceivable</span>**. <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Based on past experience</span>, <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the</span> <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">would almost certainly be drawn back into these areas, whether to defend friendly states, to cope with a humanitarian catastrophe, or to prevent a hostile power from dominating</span> an entire region. Steven Peter Rosen has thus fit-tingly observed, "If the logic of American empire is unappealing, it is not at all clear that the alternatives are that much more attractive."2z Similarly, Niall <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ferguson</span> has <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">added that</span> those who dislike American predominance ought to bear in mind that <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the alternative may not be a world of competing great powers, but one with no hegemon at all. Ferguson</span>'s warning may be hyperbolic, but it <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">hints at the perils that the absence of a dominant power, "apolarity," could bring "an anarchic new Dark Age of waning empires and religious fanaticism</span>; of endemic plunder and pillage in the world's forgotten regions; <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">of economic stagnation and civilization's retreat into a few fortified enclaves</span>





<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Instability/ Prolif</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security guarantees are the only things stopping states from action against Iran </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Legrenzi and Hokayem 2006</span></span>(Emile El; is a Middle East analyst at The Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington DC; Matteo; is a Research Fellow and Director of the Middle East and North Africa Program, Cranfield University, UK Defence Academy. “The Arab Gulf States in the Shadow Of the Iranian Nuclear Challenge”;May 6th)</span>
Iranian officials regularly tour the Arab Gulf states to assure them of their peaceful intentions, especially regarding the nuclear issue. But, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">in the power game currently unfolding in the Persian Gulf, distant powers are the main actors, and Iran’s closest neighbors seem content to act as mere spectators. The restraint and inaction of the Arab Gulf states reflects both their distrust of Iran and their reliance on the United States as their </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">ultimate security guarantor.</span></span> Simply put, GCC states play a limited role, if any, in the current negotiations to ensure that Iran’s nuclear program remains aimed at civilian purposes. In May 2005, on the eve of then-secretary of the Iranian Supreme National Security Council Hassan Rowhani’s visit to Persian Gulf countries, Richard LeBaron, the US Ambassador to Kuwait, criticized Iran for its “appalling human rights record, its pursuit of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction, its interference in the internal affairs of Iraq, its opposition to the Middle East peace process and its sponsorship of terror.”ii <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">LeBaron called on the GCC to “take a firm stand against Iran’s nuclear ambitions,” and be more diplomatically active on this front</span></span>. The Kuwaiti speaker of Parliament, Jassem Al-Kharafi, who enjoys relative independence compared to his Arab counterparts and clashes periodically with Kuwait’s ruling family, quickly rebuked him for interfering in Kuwait’s relations with Iran and jeopardizing their bilateral relations.iii Kuwait’s seniormost officials preferred to keep silent. Emile El-Hokayem and Matteo Legrenzi -- Working Paper 4 That Arab Gulf officials worry about Iran’s nuclear aspirations is beyond doubt. From August 2002 until late 2005, however, they remained mostly silent and hesitant, perplexed by Iran’s actions and distracted by events in Iraq. In January 2005, the GCC Secretary-General Abdel Rahman Attiya was quoted as saying, “<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Saudi Arabia and the other GCC countries can't find any justification for such nuclear activity which poses great dangers for all the peoples in the Gulf region</span></span>.”iv Only recently did heavyweights such as Saudi foreign minister Saud al-Faisal and Saudi ambassador to the United States Turki al-Faisal join the chorus. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The former spoke of a potential “disaster” should Iran stay the course,v and the latter criticized Iran’s inflexibility on the nuclear issue </span></span>

Primacy means that other states will be dissuaded 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraig 06 </span></span>(Michael Ryan;Ph.D. Director of Policy Analysis and Dialogue The Stanley Foundation;“Forging a New Security Order for the Persian Gulf”; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://vps.stanleyfoundation.org/reports/pab06pg.pdf]]</span>; January 2006)AB </span>
Many regional experts and analysts—as well as US Middle East experts— are confused with the seeming lack of strategy in the current US approach to the Persian Gulf, an approach that is based on a failing occupation in Iraq alongside bilateral military arrangements with Gulf Arab monarchies and the complete isolation of Iran. In fact, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the United States does have a strategy: a militarily focused counterproliferation approach based upon a flexible mix of deterrence, coercive diplomacy, global military superiority, and the preventive or preemptive use of military force. </span></span>Since the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, the Bush administration has also sought to link the counterproliferation approach—which stresses the threat of “rogue states” like Iran—with a “war on terrorism,” or counterterrorist approach, that stresses the future threat of transnational terrorist cells to the US homeland. A broad counterproliferation/counterterrorist strategy involves several aspects. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">First, the United States will “dissuade” competing military buildups by potential state adversaries like China, Iran, Russia, or others through the solidification of indefinite US global military superiority.This will presumably convince rising middle powers in key regions to embrace US-style liberal democracy and forgo military expansion in their own spheres of influence</span></span>. Further, if dissuasion fails, US military superiority will deter those rogue states or future “near-peer competitors” who manage to acquire weapons of mass destruction (WMD) or significant conventional forces that challenge US hegemony at the regional level in the Middle East, Persian Gulf, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Northeast Asia. If deterrence The Iran-Iraq war did not validate the balance of power, but rather destroyed the natural Persian Gulf balance of power....4 also fails (or looks like it might fail), the United States can use coercive diplomacy—i.e., threats of preemptive military strikes. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Finally, the presumed universality of US values, culture, political institutions, economy, and global military power will act together as a combined package to convince others to embrace secular, liberal, capitalist democracy for their own future development and forgo threats to US leadership in key regions of the worl</span></span>d. As defined operationally by the US government since the early 1990s, counterproliferation consists of technology-denial methods directed at the developing world (export controls) as well as new methods of deterrence, defense, and preemption (precision-guided and more lethal conventional munitions alongside the existing nuclear arsenal). <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Security is seen in cooperative, multilateral, or mutual terms only with regard to friends and allies, who band together in their economic and military relations to defend against intractable and potentially irrational enemies. </span></span>Both ideological and resource competition are seen as endemic to international relations and as an unavoidable reality that necessitates improved methods of control to minimize uncertainty in relations with potentially hostile actors. Security is a fungible good that can (and should) be divided among opposing camps. Moreover, according to this approach, the sovereign nation-state is still the primary actor, insofar as transnational terror networks are thought to be produced, guided, funded, encouraged, and equipped by rogue state actors like Iran. 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Instability/ Prolif </span>
And, the CP is pre-req to plan: withdrawal undermines security guarantees ensuring prolif and nuclear war—this is also a link to the disad
**VOA News ’10** (“Europe’s Nuclear Deterrent Debated”, 2-10, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/02/10/2010021000303.html)
The U.S. administration will make its nuclear policy clear with a paper known as the Nuclear Posture Review expected to be reported to the U.S. Congress this month. In the meantime, the German government has called for the removal of U.S. tactical weapons on its soil and from Europe altogether. Former NATO Secretary General George Robertson says that is a bad idea. "I think that they have not yet fully realized how symbolically important the American nuclear umbrella is, and how dangerous it might be and how risky it might be if one component of America's nuclear guarantee was to be removed without considering all of the consequences," Robertson said. He says one of the consequences could be nuclear escalation, if nations do not feel safe. "Far from making Europe safer, and far from producing a less nuclear dependent Europe, [the policy] may well end up bringing more nuclear weapons into the European continent, and frustrating some of the attempts that are being made to get multi-lateral nuclear disarmament," Robertson said. Europe's main security structure is the NATO alliance, comprising 28 countries -- including most of Europe, the United States and Turkey, among others. Article Five of its charter guarantees collective security. Former Pentagon official Franklin Miller says that is why its newest members joined. "I think the Eastern European nations joined the Alliance in large part because they received a guarantee from NATO of their territorial integrity, and what that means is there will be no war in Europe. Not just no nuclear war in Europe, but no conventional war, no conventional aggression. NATO has been the most successful defense alliance in history, largely in part because it has had a nuclear element to its Article Five guarantee," Miller said.



<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Russia</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comparatively, we have a bigger internal link then the aff—Arms control with Russia was solved by START but broader co-operation on stability and financial problems key </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CSM 1/26</span></span> (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Europe/2011/0126/With-Russian-ratification-of-New-START-what-s-next-for-US-Russia-relations/%28page%29/2|http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Europe/2011/0126/With-Russian-ratification-of-New-START-what-s-next-for-US-Russia-relations/(page)/2]]</span>; “With Russian ratification of New START, what's next for US-Russia relations?” By Fred Weir, Correspondent / January 26, 2011)AB</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">But even with the treaty's ratification, there's still much work ahead of any US-Russia relations "reset," which Mr. Obama launched after his inauguration without a central focus. "</span></span>With the ratification of START, the agenda has been exhausted," says Fyodor Lukyanov, editor in chief of the leading foreign policy journal Russia in Global Affairs. "Now we need to move on to a new stage. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">But </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">the issues [like arms control</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">] that were clear and easy for both sides to understand have now been dealt with. </span></span>We might also note that the political situation in both countries has worsened." Both Russia and the US are likely to be increasingly preoccupied with domestic politics over the coming year. Republicans gained heavily in recent mid-term elections, making it harder for Obama to win Congressional approval for new initiatives. Russia faces Duma elections in December, followed three months later by presidential polls. The <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Europe/2010/1130/Medvedev-misses-chance-to-disprove-WikiLeaks-label-Robin-to-Putin-s-Batman|growing competition]]</span> between President Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run as the establishment candidate in those elections is likely to dominate Russian politics in coming months. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The immediate challenge facing US-Russian relations is to find a compromise on NATO plans to construct an <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Global-Issues/2010/1214/How-NATO-Russia-talks-on-missile-defense-could-halt-or-launch-a-new-arms-race|antimissile shield in Europe]]</span>, which Russia fears would undermine its nuclear deterrent. Beyond that, experts say, is a list of complicated issues on which the two sides must find common ground if the "reset" is to continue, including cooperation in Afghanistan, curbing Iran's alleged nuclear weapons drive, promoting Middle East peace, and addressing global financial instability. "Ratification of START opens prospects for the solution of other issues between the US and Russia, and there certainly are a lot of those,</span></span>" says Pyotr Romanov, an expert with the official RIA-Novosti news agency. "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It seems like we've overcome one barrier, just to face higher ones ahead of us." </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CPs strategic dialogue is pre-req to aff internal link </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nixon Center, 1AC Evidence, 03</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia. The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm|http://www.nixoncenter.org/ publications/monographs/FR.htm]]</span>)AB </span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Improved communication with Russia’s government, its political class, and its public is perhaps the most important procedural step that can be taken to improve U.S.-Russian ties and could help to prevent future flare-ups</span></span> like that over Iraq. Needless to say, better communication is not a panacea: it can limit misunderstandings and minimize and compartmentalize differences, but it does not inherently resolve important disagreements. Still, better communication could improve not only government-to-government ties, but also society-to-society understanding. Ideally, improvements in these two areas would become mutually reinforcing.
Government-to-government communication between the United States and Russia is complicated by Russia’s fragmented decision-making processes and the differences between government structures in the two countries. For example, although Russia has a Security Council chaired by President Putin, there is no American-style National Security Council system to structure decisions and ensure effective two-way communication between Russia’s Presidential Administration and the rest of its executive branch both before and after decisions have been made. In contrast, many key decisions are made informally by the Russian president and his close advisors. As a result, there is often no substitute for direct communication with the Kremlin.



<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Russia </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CT co-operation solves terrorism and co-operation </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nixon Center, 1AC Evidence, 03</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia; The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm|http://www.nixoncenter.org/ publications/monographs/FR.htm]]</span>)AB </span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">President Bush has correctly identified terrorism and the nexus of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction as the most serious security threat the U.S. faces today. His administration’s “Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction” warns that, “//we will not permit// the world’s most dangerous regimes and terrorists to threaten us with the world’s most destructive weapons” (emphasis added). </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Fulfilling this commitment has become the organizing principle for America’s foreign policy. Addressing this threat requires not simply a strong coalition of the willing, but a structure in which Russia plays a leading cooperative role in fighting the War on Terrorism and proliferation. </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, Intel sharing does too </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nixon Center, 1AC Evidence, 03</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia; The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm|http://www.nixoncenter.org/ publications/monographs/FR.htm]]</span>)AB </span>


And, in fact, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the U.S. and Russia have recognized the value of their cooperation and have taken steps to further advance it.</span></span> For example, the U.S.-Russia Working Group on Afghanistan headed by Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage and Deputy Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Trubnikov has been upgraded to become the U.S.-Russian Working Group on Counterterrorism. The NATO-Russia Council, established in May 2002, is also an instrument for deepening cooperation against terror. The August arrest (with Russian help) of individuals seeking to smuggle a Russian-made shoulder-fired surface-to-air missile into the United States demonstrates the practical value of anti-terrorism <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">cooperation. Building on these successes, there is still more that can be done. Initiatives to that end include- Appropriate changes in regulations or structures that unduly limit intelligence sharing</span></span>//.// The difference between genuine and //pro forma// intelligence sharing can be the difference between successful and unsuccessful attacks against Americans. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">While it is very important to be mindful of both sides’ concerns for their sources and methods, streamlined procedures could facilitate meaningful cooperation. Some unfortunate experiences in the past, particularly on the U.S. side, have curtailed interest in such efforts; however, as cooperation in Afghanistan showed, U.S.-Russian intelligence sharing can be one of the relationship’s most valuable assets. </span></span>




<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Iran </span>

CP Solves Iran Prolif: 
a.) <span class="cite">Iran is rational </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korb 2010</span></span> (Lawrence J; Lawrence J. Korb is a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress. He is also a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Prior to joining the Center for American Progress he was a senior fellow and director of National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. Dr Korb served as assistant secretary of defense (manpower, reserve affairs, installations, and logistics) from 1981 through 1985. In that position, he administered about 70 percent of the defense budget. Dr Korb served on active duty for four years as Naval Flight Officer, and retired from the Naval Reserve with the rank of captain. He received his PhD in political science from the State University of New York at Albany and has held full-time teaching positions at the University of Dayton, US, the Coast Guard Academy, and the Naval War College; “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward. Position: Containment and deterrence”; November/December; Sage Journals)AB</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The US should be willing to resume negotiations without preconditions and continue to enforce the latest round of sanctions. But it must recognize that our past policies toward Irans</span></span> well as our attitude toward the nuclear programs of India and IsraelÑwill make those negotiations difficult, if not impossible. Moreover, the Obama administration should recognize that, despite the claims of some hawks, Iran still has a way to go before developing the capability to launch a nuclear strike. In the interim, however, the US canÑand shouldÑtake a number of other steps: 1. The US should refrain from drawing red lines bymaking public statements to the effect that it will not allow Iran to develop a nuclear weapon. The Bush administration made similar statements about North Korea and then undermined US credibility when it did not take military action after the North Koreans tested a nuclear weapon. 2<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. The US should adopt a policy of containment and deterrence that involves providing a nuclear umbrella, missile defense systems, and sophisticated aircraft to those nations in the greater Middle East who could be targets of an Iranian Korb 99nuclear strike. The US should make it clear that if Iran should use a nuclear weapon, the US response will be overwhelming. Such a policy has a good chance of succeeding. Not only have the Iranians shown themselves to be rational actors, but they are more rational than the North Koreans are now or the Chinese were in the 1960s</span></span>. 

b.) national security 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March)AB </span>

I<span class="underline">ran’s history shows it is willing to pursue whatever course its national security demands. The lead Iranian negotiator to the IAEA, Muhammad Larijani, has stated: “If our national interests dictate, we can go to the bowels of hell to negotiate with the devil.</span>”<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">88 </span>Apparently then, there is no limit to how far Iran will go in pursuit of military and political supremacy over the Arabian Gulf region. <span class="underline">It is this pursuit of greatness that has historically driven Iran to upset the balance in the region. Iran with nuclear weapons could continue this trend. Regional states in this uncertain environment look for other sources of security. </span>Domestic nuclear programs launched by these states to balance Iran’s program are of chief concern to the United States. In pursuit of security, the region has circumvented its protector, the United States, in the past. <span class="underline">The United States will need to expand its traditional role as provider of security to the regional militarily weak states particularly in the uncertain times that will surround the emergence of a nuclear-armed Iran</span>. 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">c.) We solve the internal link too- stops Israel strike </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korb 2010</span></span> (Lawrence J; Lawrence J. Korb is a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress. He is also a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Prior to joining the Center for American Progress he was a senior fellow and director of National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. Dr Korb served as assistant secretary of defense (manpower, reserve affairs, installations, and logistics) from 1981 through 1985. In that position, he administered about 70 percent of the defense budget. Dr Korb served on active duty for four years as Naval Flight Officer, and retired from the Naval Reserve with the rank of captain. He received his PhD in political science from the State University of New York at Albany and has held full-time teaching positions at the University of Dayton, US, the Coast Guard Academy, and the Naval War College; “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward. Position: Containment and deterrence”; November/December; Sage Journals)AB</span>

When the regime of Mao Zedong went nuclear, the Chinese leader boasted that in a nuclear exchange with the West, hundreds of millions of people would die, but China would emerge victorious because it would still have close to a billion survivors. 3. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The US should privately make it clear to the Israelis that their 80 to 100 weapons also provide deterrence, and if Israel should undertake a military strike, it will seriously undermine US-Israel relations and lead to consequences including the suspension ofmilitary and foreign aid</span></span>. The containment solution may not be optimal. However, given our troubled relationship with the Iranian people over the last half century, the security challenges we still face in Iraq and Afghanistan, our hopes for making progress in the Middle East peace talks, our goal of convincing the worldÕs Muslims we are not at war with them, and the horrendous cost of a military attack, it is the least bad option. Moreover, like containment and deterrence in the Cold War, it will work in the long run if we are patient, which is why it has been supported by three former CENTCOM commanders (De Borchgrave, 2010), the men wh 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Hegemony </span>
Now for comparative internal links: 
A.) Hegemony is declining now through brain drain that is 1NC Huffington Post
**B.)** <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">R&D competitiveness is the key internal link to hegemony </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Segal 04</span></span> (Adam Segal, Maurice R. Greenberg Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of Digital Dragon: High Technology Enterprises in China, December 2004 (Is America Losing its Edge?, CFR, Foreign Affairs)</span>
The <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">United States' global primacy depends in large part on its ability to develop new technologies and industries faster than anyone else. For the last five decades, U.S. scientific innovation and technological entrepreneurship have ensured the country's economic prosperity and military power</span></span>. It was Americans who invented and commercialized the semiconductor, the personal computer, and the Internet; other countries merely followed the U.S. lead. Today, however<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, this technological edge-so long taken for granted-may be slipping, and the most serious challenge is coming from Asia. Through competitive tax policies, increased investment in research and development (R&D), and preferential policies for science and technology (S&T) personnel, Asian governments are improving the quality of their science and ensuring the exploitation of future innovations.</span></span> The percentage of patents issued to and science journal articles published by scientists in China, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan is rising. Indian companies are quickly becoming the second-largest producers of application services in the world, developing, supplying, and managing database and other types of software for clients around the world. South Korea has rapidly eaten away at the U.S. advantage in the manufacture of computer chips and telecommunications software. And even <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">China has made impressive gains in advanced technologies such as lasers, biotechnology, and advanced materials used in semiconductors, aerospace, and many other types of manufacturing.</span></span> Although the United States' technical dominance remains solid, the globalization of research and development is exerting considerable pressures on the American system. Indeed, as the United States is learning, globalization cuts both ways: it is both a potent catalyst of U.S. technological innovation and a significant threat to it<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. The United States will never be able to prevent rivals from developing new technologies; it can remain dominant only by continuing to innovate faster than everyone else.</span></span> But this won't be easy; to keep its privileged position in the world, the United States must get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship at home.


<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Solvency- Hegemony </span>
C.) Soft power and security threats ARE IRRELEVENT, brain power is biggest internal link

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armitage & Nye 07</span></span> [Richard L. Armitage and Joseph S. Nye Jr., Stop Getting Mad, America. Get Smart., December 9, 2007, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/12/05/AR2007120502254.html]

The United States has long been the big kid on the block, and it will probably remain so for years to come. But its staying power has a great deal to do with whether it is perceived as a bully or a friend<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>States and non-state actors can better address today's challenges when they can draw in allies; those who alienate potential friends stand at greater risk<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The past six years have demonstrated that hard power alone cannot secure the nation's long-term goals. The U.S. military remains the best in the world, even after having been worn down from years of war. We will have to invest in people and materiel to maintain current levels of readiness; as a percentage of gross domestic product, U.S. defense spending is actually well below Cold War levels. But an extra dollar spent on hard power will not necessarily bring an extra dollar's worth of security. </span>After all, security threats are no longer simply military threats. China is building two coal-fired power plants each week. U.S. hard power will do little to curb this trend, but U.S.-developed technology can make Chinese coal cleaner, which helps the environment and opens new markets for American industry<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>In a changing world, the United States should become a <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">smarter power</span></span> by once again investing in the global good -- by providing things that people and governments want but cannot attain without U.S. leadership. By complementing U.S. military and economic strength with greater investments in soft power, Washington can build the framework to tackle tough global challenges.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We call this smart power. </span>Smart power is not about getting the world to like us. It is about developing a strategy that balances our hard (coercive) power with our soft (attractive) power.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> During the Cold War, the United States deterred Soviet aggression through investments in hard power. But as Gates noted late last month, U.S. leaders also realized that "the nature of the conflict required us to develop key capabilities and institutions -- many of them non-military." </span>So the United States used its soft power to rebuild Europe and Japan and to establish the norms and institutions that became the core of the international order for the past half-century. The Cold War ended under a barrage of hammers on the Berlin Wall rather than a barrage of artillery across the Fulda Gap precisely because of this integrated approach. 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC NB- Uniqueness </span>
Extended deterrence is strong now. Forward deployment key
**Russell ’10** (James, Co-Dir. – Center for Contemporary Conflict at Naval Postgraduate School, Former Advisor to the Sec. Def. on Persian Gulf strategy, PhD Candidate in War Studies – King’s College U. London, “Extended Deterrence, Security Guarantees and Nuclear Weapons: U.S. Strategic and Policy Conundrums in the Gulf”, 1-5, http://www.analyst-network.com/article.php?art_id=3297)
Her formulation reflects a firm historic grounding in the time-honored Cold War concepts of extended deterrence and security assurances, both of which have served as vitally important tools of American statecraft since the dawn of the nuclear age.[15] Extended deterrence is the threat to use force, including nuclear weapons, against an adversary that threatens an ally. As noted by political scientist Paul Huth: “The objective of extended deterrence is to protect other countries and territories from attack, as opposed to preventing a direct attack on one’s own national territory.”[16] Security assurances are the means through which the actor drawing upon extended deterrence conveys the commitment to an ally’s security. Each of these concepts is critically contingent on the credibility of the actor extending the deterrent umbrella and the security guarantees, which may or may not involve the specific commitment of nuclear weapons.[17] To be effective, the actor receiving these assurances and the antagonist threatening action must be convinced that the security provider is prepared to follow through on its conveyed commitments.[18] The linked concepts of extended deterrence and security guarantees are nothing new to American security strategy.[19] During the Cold War, the United States’ commitment to defend Europe became operationalized through a series of extended deterrent commitments that included the basing of nuclear weapons in Europe that could have been used in the event of a Soviet attack. In Europe, the United States and its NATO allies eventually constructed a “seamless” web of conventional and nuclear capabilities to deter and, if necessary, defeat a Soviet invasion.[20] More recently, United States clearly still believes that the concept has great relevance in Northeast Asia. In response to North Korean nuclear and missile tests during the last several years, senior U.S. officials quickly and routinely fan out to South Korea and Japan to “assure” them of America’s commitment to their security.[21] A main target of these efforts is to forestall the possibility that either South Korea or Japan will reconsider decisions not to develop nuclear weapons. Japan in particular has a robust nuclear infrastructure and is now widely considered to be a “latent” nuclear power that could develop a weapon reasonably quickly. As is the case in Northeast Asia, the United States today routinely acts as if extended deterrence and security assurances together constitute active, ongoing and useful tools in managing its regional security relationships in the Gulf. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Secretary Clinton’s recent remarks only represent the latest evidence that this is the case. In May 2006, for example, the Bush Administration embarked on a much ballyhooed “Gulf Security Dialogue” that sought to re-invigorate U.S. security relationships with the six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council. The initiative was presented as part of a consultative process to focus attention on building regional self defense capabilities; consulting on regional security issues like the Iran nuclear program and fallout of Iran’s struggle against Sunni extremists; the U.S. invasion of Iraq; counter-proliferation; counter-terrorism and internal security; and critical infrastructure protection.[22] The dialogue came as the Bush Administration proposed billions of dollars in new arms sales to Israel and its Gulf partners that included precision guided munitions such as the Joint Defense Attack Munition and the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile. The Gulf Security dialogue is but the latest chapter of an active and ongoing practice of reassurance that dates to the early 1990s, and, in the case of Saudi Arabia, to 1945 and the assurances made by President Roosevelt to the Saudi leader, King Abdul Aziz al-Saud. The United States has worked assiduously to operationalize conventionally-oriented extended deterrence commitments and security guarantees in the Gulf. As noted by Kathleen McKiness</span>: “Extended deterrence is not a hands-off strategy. It cannot be created from a distance through a submarine capability in the Persian Gulf or a troop deployment in another country such as Iraq. **It is a real, tangible, physical commitment, to be palpably felt both by allies and adversaries**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.”[23] The United States has indeed worked hard at this in the Gulf largely through its ever-efficient military bureaucracies. In the aftermath of Operation Desert Storm, the United States actively sought and concluded a series of bilateral security agreements with each of the Gulf States that became operationlized under something called defense cooperation agreements, or DCAs. These commitments between the United States and the regional signatories contained a number of critical elements: (1) that the United States and the host nation should jointly respond to external threats when each party deemed necessary; (2) permitted access to host nation military facilities by U.S. military personnel; (3) permitted the pre-positioning of U.S. military equipment in the host nation as agreed by the parties; (4) and status of forces provisions which addressed the legal status of deployed U.S. military personnel.</span> The United States today has agreements with all the Gulf States except Saudi Arabia, which is subject to similar bilateral security commitments conveyed in a variety of different forums. Under these agreements, the United States and the host nation annually convene meetings to review regional threats and developments in their security partnerships. One of the principal purposes of these meetings is for both sides to reassure the other side of their continued commitment to the security relationship. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">In short, this process operationalizes the conveyance of security guarantees in ways that reflect the principles in the DCAs. Using this Cold War-era template, the United States built an integrated system of regional security in the 1990s that saw it: (1) preposition three brigades worth of military equipment in the Gulf in Qatar, Kuwait and afloat with the Maritime Pre-positioning ships program; (2) build host nation military capabilities through exercises, training and arms sales; and, (3) build out a physical basing infrastructure that continues its expansion today. Each of the Central Command’s major service components today have forward headquarters in the region today spread between Arifjan in Kuwait, Al Udied Air Base in Qatar and the 5th Fleet Naval Headquarters in Manama. After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the United States further added to this infrastructure with bases in Iraq and a space at Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates used by the Air Force for ISR missions. As is the case in Northeast Asia, there is a substantial basing infrastructure with significant numbers of forward deployed U.S. military personnel. The major difference in Northeast Asia is that a hostile actor (North Korea) has already achieved a nuclear capability while in the Gulf, Iran may aspire to achieve North Korea’s nuclear status. In Northeast Asia, the nuclear component of U.S. extended deterrence and security guarantees is palpable, whereas in the Gulf it is more implicit, or existential. Conventional and Nuclear Deterrence</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The build out of the U.S. military infrastructure points around the region provide the hosting states with tangible evidence of the credibility of the American military commitment to their security. The military footprint today in the Gulf is no “trip-wire” force, but is engaged in tangible military operations</span></span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">such as the multi-national maritime security operations conducted in the Gulf and the Arabian Sea by the combined task force command operating out of the 5th Fleet Headquarters in Manama. Since the British withdrawal from the Gulf in the early 1970s, the United States has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to deploy its conventional forces to the region in response to regional instability. Starting with Operation Earnest Will in 1988, the United States slowly but inexorably inserted itself into the role played by the British for over a century as protecting the Gulf States from external threats. Following Operation Desert Storm, the United States kept sufficient forces in theater to enforce the United Nations’ cease fire resolutions on a recalcitrant Saddam. Last, but not least, it flowed significant forces and absorbed the monetary costs of toppling Saddam and providing a protective conventional force that can be readily called upon by the Iraq regime if needed.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Given this history it is difficult to see how any state could doubt the credibility of the United States’ commitments to use its conventional forces as an instrument of regional defense. This history suggests an overwhelming emphasis on the role of conventional force in operationalizing American security guarantees and extended deterrent commitments.</span></span> In the Gulf—unlike Northeast Asia—the role of nuclear weapons has never been explicitly spelled out and has very much remained in the background. However, while reference to nuclear weapons might remain unstated, the reality is that they are explicitly committed to defend American forces whenever the commander-in-chief might deem it necessary. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The entire (and substantial) American military regional footprint operates under a quite explicit nuclear umbrella—headlines or no headlines. </span></span>If a nuclear umbrella is indeed draped over America’s forward deployed Gulf presence, it’s hard not to see how that umbrella is similarly draped over the states that are hosting those forces. The only problem with Secretary Clinton’s recent statements is that she seems unaware of this fact, i.e., the United States already maintains a nuclear umbrella backed by nuclear weapons in the region.



<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC NB- Link/Impact </span>
Removal of TNWs leads to more proliferation and collapses NATO 
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ikv Pax</span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Christi</span></span>, peace organization, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, [“THE LAST U.S. NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN EUROPE”, http://www.ikvpaxchristi.nl/files/Documenten/Veiligheid%20en%20Ontwapening/Nucleaire%20ontwapening/factsheet%20alg%20voor%20website%202.pdf]
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The nuclear sharing program has long been considered one of the cornerstones of NATO. </span></span>As part of ‘extended deterrence’, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">TNW reassured European allies of U.S. determination to defend Western Europe at all costs</span></span>. From the U.S. perspective, their deployment showed that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">European allies were willing to ‘share the burden’ and join the U.S. on the battlefield if necessary for their own defense</span></span>. Although today this ‘burden sharing’ is political, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">TNW are still seen by many as ‘the glue of the Alliance</span></span>.’ All NATO members are involved in Alliance decision making on NATO’s nuclear posture. But the ‘host countries’ opinions are seen as carrying more weight. Giving up their nuclear task may therefore be considered by host countries as lowering their status within NATO. Some <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">believe the remaining TNW are a hedge against potential future Russian aggression towards Eastern European states</span></span>. Because of formidable Russian TNW arsenals, some feel that NATO should keep its remaining TNW as a bargaining chip in future U.S. – Russian negotiations. Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">withdrawing U.S. nuclear weapons from Europe might entice some NATO member states to develop their own nuclear weapons. This ‘non-proliferation’ argument is used **especially** when talking about Turkey</span></span>.

This internal link turns their advantages 
Alexandra <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell and</span></span> Benjamin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Loehrke</span></span>, Writers@ the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 11-23-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, [“The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey”, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Then there is the issue of Tehran's nuclear program</span></span>, which seriously complicates any discussion of the United States removing its tactical nuclear weapons from Turkey. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">An Iranian nuclear capability could spark an arms race in the Middle East and bring about a "proliferation cascade," which could cause Turkey to reconsider its nuclear options--**especially if the United States pulls its nuclear weapons from Incirlik**</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When asked</span></span> directly about its response to an Iranian nuclear weapon, a high-ranking Foreign Ministry official said that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Turkey would immediately arm itself with a bomb</span></span>. This isn't Ankara's official policy, but it seems to indicate a general feeling among its leaders. Whether Turkey is primarily concerned about security or prestige, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the bottom line is that it would not sit idly by as Iran established a regional hegemony</span></span>.

Turns all advantages 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherwood-Randall,</span></span> **Sr. Advisor of the Preventative Defense Project,** <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span>
(Elizabeth,“ TheBelferCenter, Fall, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/17425/tend_to_turkey.html]]</span>, ) 

There is another security dynamic to consider: <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Experts</span></span> focused on diminishing the threat of nuclear proliferation ar<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">e debating whether the United States should withdraw its nuclear weapons from Europe.</span></span> While in the future this may be plausible if fully supported by all NATO members, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">this is not the time to raise further questions about America’s commitment</span></span> to extended deterrence <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">or the reliability of the security guarantees that undergird its alliances and provide reassurance. Otherwise</span></span>, countries like <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Turkey may seek to develop their own nuclear programs, which will not only set back nonproliferation goals but could stimulate others to follow suit.</span></span>


===Readiness/ Hegemony CP vs Westminster TA @ Harvard=== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC DoD Budget CP </span>

<span style="color: black;"> CP Text: The United States federal government should enact and fully appropriate funds for the Department of Defense’s Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Request. The United States Federal Government should lift the numerical cap on H-1B visas. </span>


<span style="color: black;">Approving DOD’s budget solves all of their readiness, overstretch and equipment impacts </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chiarelli 2010 </span></span>(General Chiarelli, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 3-16-10 (Peter, “Military Services’ Operation & Maintenance,” testimony before the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness, CQ Congressional Testimony) </span>



As all of you know, it has been a busy time for our Nation's military. We have been at war for the past eight-plus years. With the support of Congress, the forces deployed are the very best manned, equipped, trained and led in the 234-year history of the United States Army. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">That said, the prolonged demand and high operational tempo over the course of this two-front war have undeniably put a strain on our people and equipment. Our shared goal must continue to be to restore balance and sustain the high quality of our All-Volunteer Force for the duration of the current fight as well as for future operations. The United States Army's FY11 Budget Request seeks to achieve the Army's four imperatives: our ability to sustain the Army's Soldiers, Families, and Civilians; prepare forces for success in the current conflict; reset returning units to rebuild the readiness consumed in operations and to prepare for future deployments and contingencies; and transform to meet the demands of the 21st century</span></span>. The intent of this statement is to provide justification for the Army's request for O&M funding (base and OCO) in each of these areas. 2 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The FY11budget</span></span> (base and OCO) <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">requests $107.3 billion in O&M funding -</span></span> a $7 billion increase from [fiscal year 2010] FY10. O&M is the largest portion of the total budget, at 43.7 percent, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and will be used for Soldier and unit training; ground and air vehicle operating costs; depot maintenance; base operations, sustainment, restoration, and modernization; and a 1.4 percent civilian pay raise. </span></span>The Army's O&M base account grew by approximately $3,729M in FY11. $1,104M of this growth reflects increases in pricing and inflation. The remaining $2,625M provides funds to restore balance and supports a phased expeditionary cycle for units at various Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN) readiness levels. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The FY11 budget request also migrates $1B in funding for enduring missions from OCO into the base</span></span>. This move is largely due to increased home station training resulting from the Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) drawdown. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Specifically, the request supports readiness through increases in OPTEMPO, Depot Maintenance, Soldier well-being programs, facilities and infrastructure sustainment, training, systems and accountability improvements, and cyber and network security operations.</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Sustain our All-Volunteer Force Sustaining our All-Volunteer Force is our first imperative.</span></span> The Soldier, as Secretary Gates has said, is <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">our greatest strategic asset. Unfortunately, after eight-plus years of war, we continue to see the high OPTEMPO and prolonged stress </span></span>and strain on our Force <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">manifested in the increased demand for behavioral health counseling and drug and alcohol counseling; increased divorce rates; and increased numbers of Soldiers temporarily non- deployable from nagging injuries from previous deployments</span></span>. 3 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The FY11 O&M budget request includes $1.7 billion to standardize and fund vital Family programs and services to include welfare and recreation; youth services and child care; Survivor Outreach Services; and expanded counseling and rehabilitative opportunities for Soldiers and Family Members</span></span>. In particular, the budget request supports the Army's commitment to Soldiers and their Families through initiatives such as the Army Campaign Plan for Health Promotion, Risk Reduction, and Suicide Prevention (ACPHP) and the Global Assessment Tool (GAT) that provides individual feedback on five fitness dimensions. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The request also provides increased funding for barracks modernization</span></span>, and ensures facility Sustainment is funded at 90 percent of the Facility Sustainment Model. Additionally, in collaboration with the National Institute of Mental Health, the Army began a 5-year, $50 million seminal study into suicide prevention (funded through RDT&E) that will help inform the ACPHP. The Army also began instituting our Comprehensive Soldier Fitness (CSF) program, an all-inclusive approach that puts mental health on par with physical fitness. By promoting resiliency and life-coping skills, we hope to help our Soldiers, Civilians, and Family Members to better deal with stress and other challenges. By enhancing the quality of life across our Army community, we believe we will see improvement in many other areas of concern, including suicides. T<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">he Army has also initiated a comprehensive sexual assault prevention campaign,</span></span> the Sexual Harassment/Assault Response Program (<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">SHARP</span></span>), focused on leaders maintaining a positive command climate, which encourages peer-to-peer intervention in an environment where Soldiers do not tolerate the types of behavior that, left unchecked, could lead to sexual assault. 4 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">To ensure Reserve Component Soldiers and their Families receive the same level of support and assistance, the United States Army Reserve established Army Strong Community Centers to support geographically-dispersed Soldiers and Families</span></span>. Together with Army National Guard Family Assistance Centers and Soldier and Family Assistance Centers on active duty installations, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">these centers provide help to Soldiers' Families near their homes</span></span>. Prepare our Force The <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">FY11 O&M budget request funds manning, equipping, and training goals for the current operational environments.</span></span> Today, we are continuing to transform the Army to a rotational model - the Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN). This model represents the core process for generating trained, ready, and cohesive units on a sustained and rotational basis - to meet current and future strategic demands<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. The ARFORGEN process includes three force pools Reset, Train- Ready, and Available</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Each of the three force pools contains a versatile force package, available at varying time intervals based on its readiness level. The ARFORGEN process increases predictability for Soldiers, Families, employers, and communities, and enables our RC to remain an integral element of the operational force while providing the Nation with the strategic depth </span></span>(i.e., those non-deployed units which are two to three years from commitment) and operational flexibility to meet unexpected contingencies. Manning The Army is currently implementing the Active Army temporary end- strength increase of up to 22,000 Soldiers approved by the Secretary of Defense in July 2009. 5 Eight-plus years of sustained combat operations have increased non-deployable rates in our units. These increasing non-deployable rates (from 11 percent in 2007 to 13 percent in 2009) require us to continue to overfill our deploying units. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Soldiers needed to overfill those deploying units come largely from resetting units, thus reducing individuals' dwell time and the strength of these and other affected units across the Army</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The temporary end-strength increase is substantially augmenting the enlisted fill of our Reset forces enabling more effective ARFORGEN-based manning, equipping and training processes required to get future deployers ready, thereby improving the overall readiness of our Army</span></span>. The decision was made to temporarily increase the Army end-strength by 15,000 Soldiers by the end of fiscal year 2010. This was to assist in improving fill of deploying units while mitigating the elimination of Stop Loss. We added 5,000 Soldiers in fiscal year 2009, and will add an additional 10,000 individuals in fiscal year 2010. The resulting Army end-strength will be 562,400 Soldiers. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Army is assessing the need for an additional 7,000 Soldier growth for fiscal year 2011</span></span>. This would bring us to the total 22,000 increase. The decision on whether or not to add the additional 7,000 growth is pending confirmation of our immediate demand, the pace of the drawdown from Iraq, and the requirement for forces in Afghanistan. If the decision is made to add the additional 7,000 Soldiers, growth could be complete by end of 2nd quarter, FY2011. We would hold at that end-strength for the requisite 12 months before beginning the 18-month drawdown. Regardless of the decision on the 7,000 Soldier growth we 6 plan to return to the pre-increase end-strength level of 547,400 by the end of FY 2013. Equipping The Army greatly appreciates the tremendous support Congress has provided for our equipping needs, which has allowed deployed Soldiers and Army units to have the equipment needed to accomplish their missions. Because of your interest and support, today the American Soldier is the best equipped combatant in the world. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Whatever the mission, from disaster relief in Haiti, to counter insurgency operations in Iraq and </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Afghanistan</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, Army Soldiers and units have the latest and most capable military equipment in the world.</span></span> Training Training is a critical part of Army readiness, and the FY11 budget request reflects our focus to improve home station training, maintain capabilities at the Combat Training Centers (CTC), and continue building the Modular Army in order to set the conditions to achieve balance as future unit dwell times increase. Fiscal year 2011 base OPTEMPO funding supports increased ground miles and increased flying hours. For the Active component, it funds ground OPTEMPO from 545 miles in FY10 to 583 miles in FY11. It funds Air OPTEMPO from 12.0 hours per crew month in FY10 to 12.3 hours in FY11. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The FY11 budget also increases available training range days from 184 funded in the FY 10 budget to 216 of 242 required training days and provides additional operations capability for the Training Support Centers that maintain and manage the Training Aids, Devices, Simulations and Simulators (TADSS)</span></span>. 7 The FY 2011 O&M base budget request funds a total of 24 rotations through the Army's Combined Arms Training Centers (CTCs) and two Exportable Training Capability (ETC) events. The CTCs are in the initial phase to transition to Full Spectrum Operations (FSO); we plan to conduct a pilot FSO rotation in FY11. Funding for Army Military and Civilian Leader Development programs remains constant in FY11. The Army sustains support for all the Army Leader Development Strategy initiatives. The Army projects increased enrollment in Professional Military Education programs as dwell time increases in FY12. We will increase resources to reduce the backlog created by years of insufficient dwell time. The Army continues to increase investment in Language Qualification Training and Cultural Awareness Training. Additional funding includes increased Mobile Language Training Teams to support the Language Proficiency Enhancement Program in support of ARFORGEN, and funding for Language Training Detachments and for the Afghanistan/ Pakistan Hands Program. The FY11 budget request funds increases in officer training and accessions. The commissioning mission increases from 5,100 in FY10 to 5,350 in FY11. The request also funds an 11.3 percent increase in enlisted and officer specialized skills training. Reset Overseas Contingency Operations (<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">OCO) Reset funding has sustained the Army and maintained our operational readiness for the past 8 years</span></span>. The FY11 O&M OCO budget request includes $7.8 billion to Reset Army equipment. 8 Reset is an essential element of readiness and restoring balance to the Army for known requirements. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It is part of the cost of war, and it prepares our Soldiers and their equipment for an unpredictable future and evolving threats. </span></span>Reset is a necessary process that must continue not only as long as we have forces deployed, but an additional two to three years after major deployments end to ensure future equipment readiness. Reset is especially challenging given the extraordinary wear on vehicles, aircraft, and equipment in the harsh environments our forces operate in today. Coarse sand, fine dust, extreme temperatures, and high OPTEMPO erode sophisticated mechanical and electronic systems at altitudes and loads which near the edge of the aircraft design capabilities. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Our rotary wing fleet, for example, operates up to six times non-combat usage level</span></span>s. Over the past year, our depot-level Maintenance Reset workload exceeded ~100,000 items of equipment; and, we expect to sustain this pace for as long as we have substantial forces deployed. Reset timelines are directly related to the pace of the Iraq drawdown, operational decisions such as the OEF plus-up, available capacity within our industrial base (labor and physical plant capacities and long lead-time parts) and the availability and timing of funding. Given current projections, we would expect our requirements to decrease in the outyears as we complete the retrograde and Reset of equipment from Iraq. Army Prepositioned Stocks Army Prepositioned Stocks (APS) have repeatedly most recently in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) fulfilled their primary purpose of enhancing the Army's strategic agility. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In order to restore balance to the Army's strategic readiness posture, it is necessary to --Reset?? these war reserve stocks</span></span>. The FY 11 budget request funds APS at $400.7M, an increase of $120.9M. This funding will make available three Large Medium Speed Roll-on/Roll-off (LMSR) ships associated with APS Afloat that are currently in reduced operating status. These ships will carry one Sustainment Brigade with a Combat Support Hospital and an Infantry Brigade Combat Team. Additionally, the O&M funding requested in FY11 will partially reconstitute Prepositioned Stocks in Southwest Asia (APS-5); fund reconstitution and Care of Supplies In Storage (COSIS) for an Infantry Battalion with a motorized augmentation set in Afghanistan; and, fund COSIS for existing afloat APS stocks. Transforming our Force The Army is continuously evolving our capabilities to meet current and future strategic demands. We recognize that we must ensure our Nation has the capability and range of military options to meet the evolving challenges we face in the 21st century. As Army Chief of Staff, General George W. Casey, Jr. has stated, "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">We need an Army that is a versatile mix of tailorable and networked organizations, operating on a rotational cycle, to provide a sustained flow of trained and ready forces for full spectrum operations and to hedge against unexpected contingencies - at a tempo that is predictable and sustainable for our all- volunteer force.</span></span>" The centerpiece of our efforts is the shift to a modular construct focused at the brigade level, thus creating a more deployable, adaptable, and versatile force. This ongoing transformation has greatly enhanced the Army's ability to respond to any situation, quickly and effectively. However, the degree of impact continues to vary, for example, between Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs), --enablers,?? the Reserve components, and individual Soldiers. The FY11 budget request supports increases to integrated management systems for Army Business Operations, enhancing communications systems, personnel systems, and financial readiness. It also funds increases in cyber and network security to enhance computer network defense and protect our information systems from unauthorized access and use. Overseas Contingency Operations (<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">OCO) request O&M also represents the largest portion of the OCO request, $63.4 billion or 62 percent, and will fund the day-to-day costs of the war, training to prepare units for deployment, force protection, in-theater maintenance and repair, drawdown of equipment from Iraq, and the Reset of Army Prepositioned Stocks and equipment returning from deployment</span></span>. The OCO portion of the request also includes $628M for the training and sustainment of the temporary wartime increase in personnel - an increase of $242M from FY10. The FY11 OCO request for O&M appropriations is $3.2 billion higher than the FY10 request ($63.4B versus $60.2B). Although the overall deployed force structure will be lower in FY11, the request reflects a full year of OEF operations at the increased force structure level and with significantly higher costs for transportation, in-theater maintenance, and support of new and expanded base camps in Afghanistan. FY 2011 Budget Risks Budget risk Army-wide is projected to be minimal if the $245.6 billion [Budget Request] is appropriated as requested. The Army continues to identify, manage and mitigate risks resulting from changes in assumptions 11 underlying the FY11 budget build, past budget builds, or any unforeseen events. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Risk has been identified in the following areas: Sustained Demand Since September 11, 2001, all deploying Army units are trained, led, and equipped to the highest levels prior to deployment</span></span>. However, due to sustained demand, Army units are achieving this deployment readiness closer and closer to their arrival dates in theater. OCO Funding The Army continues to rely on OCO funding to meet the full scope of training and sustainment of our forces. Personnel Mobilization Assumptions include: no significant new missions; Iraq draw down will proceed on time, and end year at less than 50K end-strength; Afghanistan surge will proceed on time and not increase beyond the planned level; and, Active Duty Operational Support (ADOS) requirement for the Reserve Component will continue to decrease parallel to Iraq draw down. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Training The Army continues to accept moderate risk in the base funding of unit training for all components; training at the CTCs due to the execution of Mission Readiness Exercises for deploying units; and funding of the Training Support Systems operations while units remain deployed. Primary risks are in the acceleration of the drawdown in forces ahead of planned timeline; and the availability of OCO to support pre-deployment training for all components and readiness certification and validation during pre- and post-mobilization for the Reserve Components</span></span>. 12 Base Operations Support Base Operations Support (BOS) resources the Army's installation services worldwide, ensuring an environment in which Soldiers and Families can thrive, and provides a structure that supports a campaign quality, expeditionary Army. The FY11 budget request funds BOS programs at $9.1billion across all components, an increase from FY2010 of $241M. The budget request funds new Army Senior Leadership Initiatives (SLI) to support Soldier/Family well-being at garrison/installation level, to include ACPHP, SHARP; and Contract Security Guards in Europe previously funded with OCO now funded in base. Although the Army has taken risk in BOS, the Army's Installation Management Command (IMCOM) continues to work closely with each installation to ensure its essential BOS needs are met. Earlier this month, the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff, Army, announced the Army's plan to increase BOS funding by $500M in FY10. Additionally, the Army will conduct a comprehensive mid-year review of all BOS accounts to ensure adequate funding is maintained to meet the Army's priorities through the remainder of the fiscal year. The Army's senior leaders anticipate working closely with Congress to make the necessary modifications to the Army's FY11 request as they relate to BOS needs across our installations. In the meantime, we are continuing to look for efficiencies and best practices in the use of BOS funds. You can be assured we will not shortchange Soldiers and their Families in the process. U<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">nknown Risk We recognize that much of the risk we assume depends on minimal projected reductions in demand and corresponding savings; and the absence of unplanned events or a resurgence of tensions in ?hot spots' 13 around the world. </span></span>If such unforeseen events occur, we will have to make the necessary adjustments, to include reallocation of resources. However, based on the current situation and known risks, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">we are confident the FY11 O&M budget request, if appropriated in full, </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">would improve the overall readiness</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> of our Force by ensuring the Army is able to properly care for, train, equip and support our Soldiers, Civilians, and Family Members around the world. </span></span>



H-1B limits are pushing innovative foreigners away from the US—collapse of competitiveness leadership is inevitable without reform
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huffington Post 2010</span></span> (Ed Hooper; Veteran Journalist; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ed-hooper/politics-trumping-visa-re_b_555596.html]]</span>; April 28th)[AB]
While Arizona's new immigration law is creating a national uproar, another controversy on the subject bubbled to the surface a couple of weeks ago when White House Science czar John P. Holdren commented to the American Association for the Advancement of Science that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the United States can't expect to be number one in science and technology forever</span></span>. His statement also drew an immediate and angry national response, but e<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ngineers and scientists across the board have been warning of this impending crisis for years and the culprit is restrictive visa laws that affect critical segments of America's economy and government agencies</span></span>. The comprehensive bipartisan immigration reform bill sponsored by New York Democrat Charles Schumer and South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham is supposed to address this issue, but legislators now say it could be 2012 before any reform bill is passed, which means the U.S. will continue to hemorrhage entrepreneurs, engineers and scientists. Even if the legislation did pass, it would still take separate resolutions to address laws in the Patriot Act that further complicate visa issuance to talented foreign-born students and researchers. Immigration issues regarding illegal workers and securing the Mexican border is a national priority. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It will be the subject of protracted debate and seemingly endless congressional committees, but quickly needed reforms like those for the H1B visa issue are being eclipsed in the argument.</span></span> Its critical relevance to America's economy, education, and national security, has many representatives arguing visa reform should be a separate piece of legislation instead of a provision lumped into a massive bill as a bargaining point in negotiations. And most American businesses agree<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. National organizations estimate more than 37 percent of PhDs in science and engineering awarded by colleges and universities each year go to foreign-born students</span></span>. While most are reportedly staying according to a 2007 study, experts say those numbers are likely to nosedive in the next report. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Undoubtedly the U.S. produces great home-grown engineers and scientists, but a formidable number of immigrants have brought revolutionary advances in sciences and technologies to American shores</span></span>. Croatian immigrant Nikola Tesla made the national electrical grid possible with his invention of a coil. Russian immigrant and aviation pioneer Igor Sikorsky invented the helicopter. German immigrant Albert Einstein and Italian immigrant Enrico Fermi helped usher in the atomic sciences. Hungarian immigrant John von Neumann pioneered the digital age that made computers possible. And, if Werner von Braun hadn't surrendered to the 44th Infantry Division in World War II Berlin, Americans wouldn't have had a space program. These immigrants helped form the backbone of U.S. leadership in science and technology that sustained this nation on the world's stage for the last 100 years. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This is one case where the U.S. needs history to repeat itself. The unique business model that drives competitiveness between private and government laboratories in a capitalist system has been the propellant that maintains the U.S. as the world's leader in science and technology. </span></span>From Silicon Valley to Oak Ridge, the greatest tool American-based companies have is their historical ability to bring in talented foreign minds without hassle to research, start new businesses and teach at colleges or universities. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">And it must be preserved. This isn't the only problem threatening American dominance in these field</span></span>s. State and federal economic problems tightens available venture capital. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The politicizing of science and technology in the quest for grants, government and private sector cutbacks in research and a growing lack of national vision have been just as lethal. It's created a perfect storm for global competitors to lure away our best and brightest minds</span></span>. And it's not like America was caught unprepared. In a 2005 Congressional hearing, then-President of the National Academy of Engineering William Wulf informed them that "...<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Top-notch students and teachers from abroad help make U.S. colleges and universities global centers of excellence and diversity. Highly skilled workers and world-class business leaders who come to work with or for U.S.-based companies help keep our economy growing .... but foreign companies, universities and governments are marketing themselves as friendlier places to do business or get an education. In the race to attract top international talent, we are losing ground." The fact is American-educated engineers, entrepreneurs, and scientists are now discovering better opportunities outside the U.S. and each one who moves is also taking jobs and technological advances that could benefit this country and generate unlimited economic opportunities. To further delay visa reform to garner needed votes on a comprehensive bill amounts to the U.S. trading away its world leadership role in business, science and technology for party politics. </span></span>

===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dulles CP </span>=== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Focus on increasing the amount of Afghanistan security forces, including the Afghanistan National Army, by allocating the necessary resources to allow for sign-on bonuses </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allocate the necessary resources for the above programs to function effectively and efficiently, while training the Afghanistan National Army for combat missions </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">purchas</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">e **large sums of opium and poppy from poppy and opium producers in Afghanistan** </span></span>
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings;">n </span>not announce but still end opium eradication as a counter-narcotic strategy in Afghanistan </span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings;">n </span>Substantially increase its efforts to search and eliminate drug kingpins and corrupt government officials in Afghanistan </span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ban phosphates from detergent </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Build a substantial** a</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">mount of manufacturing plants to remove phosphates from waste water </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Invest in alternative crops to donate to the Afghanistan farming population to replace the illicit drug </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Request that Japan and the European Union, engage in a joint effort to promote regional stability and trans-Eurasian cooperation in regards to the Balkan states. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Promote investment in local and national infrastructure </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 11pt;">n </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">not reduce military or police presence in Afghanistan </span>** </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The CP solves poverty and Taliban influence and purchasing poppy kills Taliban’s income </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASG 2010</span></span> (Afghanistan Study Group; Steve Clemons Director, American Strategy Program New America Foundation; William Goodfellow Executive Director Center for International<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9pt;"> Policy </span>Matthew P. Hoh <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 9pt;">Director, Afghanistan Study Group</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/]]</span>; {dashes in orginal}; August 13th)AB </span>
Afghanistan is one of the world’s poorest countries, and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">endemic poverty has made some elements of the population susceptible to Taliban overtures. Moreover, failed and destitute states frequently become incubators for terrorism, drug and human trafficking, and other illicit activities</span></span>. Therefore, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">efforts at reconciliation should be coupled with a broad internationally-led effort to promote economic development.</span></span> Potentially useful measures include:
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Giving Afghanistan preferential trading status with the U.S., Europe, Japan and other leading global economies. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Promoting investment in local and national infrastructure by national and international companies. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Providing subsidies, loans, and technical assistance to local (non-poppy) agricultural producers, construction companies, and artisans. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Promoting “special reconstruction zones” for foreign and domestic companies to produce export goods. Such zones could offer investors preferential tax treatment and access to enhanced security and infrastructure measures, at least initially. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Helping Afghan women directly through micro-lending and educational support programs, and by making some portion of U.S. assistance conditional on the protection of basic human rights, especially women’s rights. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">n </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Considering the purchase of Afghanistan’s poppy crop, to give Afghan farmers immediate economic gains, reduce Taliban revenues, and reduce the flow of illicit narcotics to the West. </span></span></span>


<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP </span>
It solves the drug trade, your only internal link 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaze, 1AC Author, 07 </span></span>(John A. Glaze, lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey, “Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online)AB</span>

<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">The United States should deemphasize opium eradication efforts</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. U.S.-backed eradication efforts have been ineffective and have resulted in turning Afghans against U.S. and NATO forces</span></span>. The Council on Foreign Relations in New York has warned, “Elimination of narcotics will take well over a decade, and crop eradication is a counterproductive way to start such a program.”70 While the process of eradication lends itself well to the use of flashy metrics such as “acres eradicated,” eradication without provision for long13 term alternative livelihoods is devastating Afghan’s poor farmers without addressing root causes. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The United States should put less emphasis on eradication and focus more attention and resources on the other pillars of the counternarcotics strategy</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Focus on Long-Term Alternative Livelihoods. The United States should focus on a longer-term solution to the opium problem that emphasizes true alternative livelihoods for the 2.9 million Afghans who currently rely on the opium industry for income.</span></span> William Byrd of the World Bank says: “Expectations about what can be accomplished in the short run must be kept reasonable. Overly inflated expectations inevitably lead to disappointments which, given the political sensitivity of narcotics, in turn can lead to overreaction and policy mistakes.”71 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The “alternative livelihoods” supported by the current U.S. strategy are too often short-term “cash-forwork” projects that do not provide a lasting incentive for farmers to give up opium cultivation</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Aggressively Pursue Drug Kingpins and Corrupt Government Officials</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The United States should aggressively pursue drug kingpins and corrupt government officials involved in Afghanistan’s opium trade </span></span>

CP solves the root cause of algae blooms
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Canada.com 08</span></span> (“Scientists solve riddle of toxic algae blooms”; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.canada.com/victoriatimescolonist/news/story.html?id=381d4ce5-89a2-4901-864e-34239419bf67]]</span> </span>
After a remarkable 37-year experiment, University of Alberta <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">scientist</span></span> David Schindler and his <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">colleagues have finally nailed down the chemical triggers for a problem that plagues thousands of freshwater and coastal ecosystems around the world. </span></span>By pumping various pollutants into Lake 227, a small pristine lake in the Experimental Lakes region of northern Ontario, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">they were able to pin down which chemical nutrients were key to triggering the blooms. "Phosphorous really is the key</span></span>," says Schindler, whose study is highlighted in the U.S.-based Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences this week. "Here in Alberta, it is especially important because the phosphorous content in the soil is naturally high, so you don't have to add a lot to create a serious problem." <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It's a global problem</span></span>. In a commentary in this week's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, American scientist Stephen Carpenter said global expansion of aquatic "dead zones" caused by algae blooms is rising rapidly. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">There are now 146 coastal regions in the world in which fish and bottom-feeding life forms have been entirely eliminated because of a lack of oxygen.</span></span> One dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico is about the size of the city of New Jersey and growing. Fifty years ago, no one knew what exactly caused algae blooms to appear on lakes and rivers. There was some evidence to suggest that carbon, nitrogen and phosphorous, which are associated with agricultural runoff and waste water, were responsible. But small-scale experiments weren't able to show which were more important.<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Schindler seemed to solve the problem when he and his colleagues conducted a number of groundbreaking experiments in northern Ontario in the 1960s and early 1970</span></span>s. In a famous 1974 aerial photograph published by the journal Science, two portions of their experimental Lake 226 were highlighted. One side was treated with carbon, nitrogen and phosphorous. The other was treated with just carbon and nitrogen. The side receiving phosphorous rapidly developed a huge bloom of blue-green algae. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The side not receiving phosphorous remained in near-pristine condition. The photo and the study that accompanied it were pivotal in convincing governments in North America and Europe to ban phosphates from detergents and to ramp up or build thousands of new treatment plants that removed phosphorous from waste water. </span></span>



<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal will cause instability and increase narcotics—CPs regional securities solve </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pelka 09</span></span> (Jay; Major, United States Air Force, Joint Forces Staff College; “Afghanistan Narcotics: The Bigger Battle Toward Stabilization”; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA530170&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Security forces are crucial to providing safety and stability to Afghanistan. They target narcotics growth, production, and trafficking by upholding and enforcing the rule of law. </span></span>A Congressional report from 2008 cited security as “a fundamental prerequisite for achieving economic and social development in Afghanistan.” 72 The country faces a wide range of threats to achieving security to include violence, terrorism, and crime. These threats tightly interlink with the narcotics industry and are heavily reliant on it for financial support. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Without effective forces to provide the needed security, there is no hope for the development of a successful Afghan state</span></span>. The Afghanistan National Army (ANA<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">) and</span></span> Afghanistan National Police <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(ANP) are critical components in controlling both narcotics and the insurgency.</span></span> Through enforcement of narcotics laws and criminal prosecution, security forces attempt to control the narcotics industry. However, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">enforcement is effective only in conjunction with defeating the insurgents who benefit from the narcotics trade.</span></span> Countering insurgents assists in controlling narcotics and decreases financing and extortion as opium crop security would diminish thereby allowing authorities to effectively target other narcotics industry and trafficking mechanisms. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">With the government controlling the narcotics trade, this source of insurgent funding would evaporate. </span></span>To make this strategy a success, the government will have to ensure increased employment opportunities and alternative livelihoods for those abandoning narcotics. 72 U.S. Department of Defense Report to Congress, Report on Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan, June 2008: 33. 31 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Without these key elements, the population will be further impoverished, unemployed, and disgruntled, looking to invoke revenge against authority.</span></span> As highlighted in section III of this paper, the security concerns remain greatest in the southern provinces where poppy cultivation thrives. These areas are also the main theater of combat operations. The violence is highly regionalized, with 70 percent of the violence occurring in only 36 of Afghanistan’s 364 districts. Fortunately, these regions are sparsely populated and include only six percent of the country’s population. 73 Although sparsely populated, these regions produce the majority of the nation’s narcotics. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Therefore, there is a desperate need for security to counter this violence as well as control criminal and narcotics influences in an effort to promote safety, legitimate prosperity, security, and stability </span></span>

Plan kills the ability to seize Taliban’s drugs 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">UNODC, 1AC author, 09</span></span> (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/2009/September/afghan-opium-production-in-significant--decline.html, AD: 7/7/10) jl</span>
2 September 2009 - <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Opium poppy cultivation in Afghanistan is down 22 per cent</span></span>, opium production is down 10 per cent, while prices are at a 10-year low. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The number of opium poppy-free provinces has increased from 18 to 20</span></span> out of a total number of 34, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and more drugs are being seized as a result of</span></span> more robust <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">counter-narcotics operations by Afghan and NATO forces</span></span>. These are the findings contained in the summary findings of the Afghan Opium Survey 2009, released in Kabul today by UNODC Executive Director Antonio Maria Costa. This annual survey covers the planting cycle from May 2008 to June 2009. "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">At a time of pessimism about</span></span> the situation in <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Afghanistan, these results are a welcome piece of good news and demonstrate</span></span> that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">progress is possible</span></span>", said Mr. Costa.



<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC CP </span>
Nuclear war
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagans 09 (</span></span>Frederick W. Kagan is a resident scholar at AEI. Kimberly Kagan is president of the Institute for the Study of War; Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan By <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/99|Frederick W. Kagan]]</span>, Kimberly Kagan; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.weeklystandard.com/|The Weekly Standard]]</span> Monday, October 12, 2009 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/101110]]</span>)AB</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">"To defeat an enemy that heeds no borders or laws of war, we must recognize the fundamental connection between the future of Afghanistan and Pakistan-</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">-which is why I've appointed Ambassador Richard Holbrooke .  .  . to serve as Special Representative for both countries." That "fundamental connection" between Afghanistan and Pakistan was one of the important principles President Obama laid out in his March 27, 2009, speech announcing his policy in South Asia. It reflected a common criticism of the Bush policy in Afghanistan, which was often castigated as insufficiently "regional." It also reflected reality: The war against al Qaeda and its affiliates is a two-front conflict that must be fought on both sides of the Durand Line. Now, however<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, some of the most vocal supporters of the regional approach are considering--or even advocating--a return to its antithesis, a purely counterterrorism (CT) strategy in Afghanistan</span></span>. Such <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a reversion, based on the erroneous assumption that a collapsing Afghanistan would not derail efforts to dismantle terrorist groups in Pakistan, is bound to fail. Recent discussions of the "CT option" have tended to be sterile, clinical, and removed from the complexity of the region--the opposite of the coherence with which the administration had previously sought to address the problem. In reality, </span></span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">any</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> "CT option" will likely have to be executed against the backdrop of state collapse and civil war in Afghanistan, spiraling extremism and loss of will in Pakistan, and floods of refugees</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. These conditions would benefit al Qaeda greatly by creating an expanding area of chaos, an environment in which al Qaeda thrives. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">They would also make the collection of intelligence and the accurate targeting of terrorists extremely difficult. It is very likely that the insurgency will grow in size and strength in 2010 faster than Afghan security forces can be developed without the addition of significant numbers of American combat troops</span></span>**.** <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If the United States should adopt a small-footprint counterterrorism strategy, Afghanistan would descend again into civil war</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Taliban group headed by Mullah Omar and operating in southern Afghanistan </span></span>(including especially Helmand, Kandahar, and Oruzgan Provinces) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is well positioned to take control of that area upon the withdrawal of American and allied combat forces. The remaining </span></span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Afghan security forces would be unable to resist a Taliban offensive</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. They would be defeated and would disintegrate. The fear of renewed Taliban assaults would mobilize the Tajiks, Uzbeks, and Hazaras in northern and central Afghanistan. </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Taliban itself would certainly drive on Herat and Kabul, leading to war with northern militias<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. This conflict would collapse the Afghan state, mobilize the Afghan population, and cause many Afghans to flee into Pakistan and Iran. Within Pakistan, the U.S. reversion to a counterterrorism strategy</span></span> (from the counterinsurgency strategy for which Obama reaffirmed his support as recently as August<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">) would disrupt the delicate balance that has made possible recent Pakistani progress against internal foes and al Qaeda</span></span>. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Pakistani president Asif Ali Zardari, army chief of staff General Ashfaq Kayani, and others who have supported Pakistani operations against the Taliban are facing an entrenched resistance within the military and among retired officers. This resistance stems from the decades-long relationships nurtured between the Taliban and Pakistan, which started during the war to expel the Soviet Army. Advocates within Pakistan of continuing to support the Taliban argue that the United States will abandon Afghanistan as it did in 1989, creating chaos that only the Taliban will be able to fill in a manner that suits Pakistan. Zardari and Kayani have been able to overcome this internal resistance sufficiently to mount major operations against Pakistani Taliban groups, in part because the rhetoric and actions of the Obama administration to date have seemed to prove the Taliban advocates wrong. The announcement of the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces would prove them right. Pakistani operations against their own insurgents--as well as against al Qaeda, which lives among those insurgents--would probably grind to a halt as Pakistan worked to reposition itself in support of a revived Taliban government in Afghanistan</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. And a <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">renewed stream of Afghan refugees would likely overwhelm the Pakistani government and military, rendering coherent operations against insurgents and terrorists difficult or impossible. The collapse of Pakistan</span></span>, or even the revival of an aggressive and successful Islamist movement there, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">would be a calamity for the region and for the United States</span></span>. It would significantly increase the risk that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">al Qaeda might obtain nuclear weapons from Pakistan's stockpile, as well as the risk that an Indo-Pakistani war might break out involving the use of </span></span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">nuclear weapons.</span></span>

====<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">2NC Dulles CP </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">More ev</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">North 10</span></span> (Oliver; Lt. Col. North (Ret.) is a nationally syndicated columnist and the author of the FOX News/Regnery books, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6405|"War Stories: Operation Iraqi Freedom,"]][[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6569| "War Stories II: Heroism in the Pacific"]]</span> and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6853|"War Stories III: The Heroes Who Defeated Hitler."]]</span> Lt. North hosts "War Stories Investigates: Drugs, Money and Narco-Terror" Saturday, Aug. 22, at 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. EDT on Fox News Channel; “Ending Opium Trade Key to Victory in Afghanistan”; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=36093]]</span>; 3/23/10)AB </span>


Now, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Taliban leaders are promising to prevent coalition forces from wresting control over the city of Kandahar.</span></span> Over the course of the four days we have been “in-country” this time, coordinated attacks by suicide bombers have increased dramatically, causing more than fifty civilian dead and wounded. Taliban propaganda organs blame “the American and European trespassers” for the casualties. President Hamid Karzai has responded by promising to dispatch more than 1,000 additional Afghan police to the region.<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Keeping this commitment is a major challenge</span></span>. U.S. DEA, military and contract civilian trainers and mentors acknowledge that fielding <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a “qualified and capable Afghan security force” is essential to winning the fight here in “opium central.</span></span>” But privately <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">they wonder if they can train and equip adequate numbers by next summer, when the Obama administration has promised to start withdrawing American troops. </span></span>


<span class="cite">Purchasing Opium and reforestation solves the economic problems that push farmers to the Taliban—the CP cuts the Taliban’s income while winning the hearts and minds </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 08</span></span> (Christopher; Respected Journalist; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slate.com/id/2201622/]]</span>; “How To Win Afghanistan's Opium War, The best way to deprive the Taliban of drug profits? The United States should buy Afghanistan's poppy crop instead of trying to eradicate it”; October 6th) [AB]</span>
Innumerable factors combine to constitute this depressing assessment, and many of them have to do with the sheer <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">fact that Afghanistan, already extremely poor, scorched its own earth further in a series of civil wars and ethnic rivalries.</span></span> I remember flying from Herat to Kabul on a U.N. plane a few years ago and being depressed by the rarity of even a splash of greenery in the mud-colored landscape. Thirty years ago, what was Afghanistan's most famous export? It was grapes, usually made into exceptionally fine raisins that were esteemed throughout the subcontinent. It was a country of vines and orchards. Now, even the vines and trees have mostly been cut down for firewood. Iraq could well be immensely rich in a decade or less: Afghanistan will be well-down even in "Third World" economic terms for a very long time to come. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This is why it is peculiar of us, if not bizarre and quasi-suicidal, to insist that its main economic lifeblood continues to be wholly controlled by our enemies. The U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime tells us that last year Afghanistan's poppy fields, on 193,000 hectares of land, produced 93 percent of all the world's opium</span></span>. The potential production could be as high as 8,200 metric tons. And, unsurprisingly, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">UNODC also reports that the vast bulk of the revenue from this astonishing harvest goes directly to the Taliban or to local warlords and mullahs. Meanwhile, in the guise of liberators, NATO forces appear and tell the Afghan villagers that they intend to burn their only crop.</span></span> And the American embassy is only restrained by the Afghan government from pursuing a policy of actually spraying this same crop from the air! In other words, the discredited fantasy of Richard Nixon's so-called "War on Drugs" is the dogma on which we are prepared to gamble and lose the country that gave birth to the Taliban and hospitality to al-Qaida. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Surely a smarter strategy would be, in the long term, to invest a great deal in reforestation and especially in the replanting of vines. While in the short term, hard-pressed Afghan farmers should be allowed to sell their opium to the government rather than only to the many criminal elements that continue to infest it or to the Taliban. We don't have to smoke the stuff once we have purchased it: It can be burned or thrown away or perhaps more profitably used to manufacture the painkillers of which the United States currently suffers a shortage</span></span>. (As it is, we allow Turkey to cultivate opium poppy fields for precisely this purpose.) Why not give Afghanistan the contract instead? <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">At one stroke, we help fill its coffers and empty the main war chest of our foes while altering the "hearts-and-minds" balance that has been tipping away from us</span></span>. I happen to know that this option has been discussed at quite high levels in Afghanistan itself, and I leave you to guess at the sort of political constraints that prevent it from being discussed intelligently in public in the United States. But if we ever have to have the melancholy inquest on how we "lost" a country we had once liberated, this will be one of the places where the conversation will have to start. 

Not only does purchasing kill the Taliban but purchases also solve military spending and overstretch 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huffington Post 09</span></span> (Robbie Gennet; Writer; “Afghanistan’s Biofuel Revolution”; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robbie-gennet/afghanistans-biofuel-revo_b_168399.html]]</span>; Febuary 19th)[AB]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Seeing the news that President Obama is sending more troops into Afghanistan, our gaze turns from Iraq to the place where the Taliban has made a resurgence and where Al Qaeda and Osama Bin Laden have been hiding out near the border of Pakistan. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Fueling this terrorist incubator has been the explosive growth of the poppy trade, the main source of funding for the Taliban and pretty much every terrorist organization in the area. So instead of just fighting this war militarily- which results in countless deaths and billions of dollars spent- couldn't we take a preemptive tactic to remove the Talibans main source of funding by buying up all of the poppy crops in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> (which produces more than 90% of the world's opium supply)? </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pay above market value and do it under the stipulation that every hectare of land be replanted with biofuels that would thrive in that climate/condition. </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">And guarantee both help with the agriculture- state of the art equipment, the latest knowledge and high-yield seeds to grow- and with moving the finished product straight into the biofuel production chain at a fair or above market price</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. Give them the incentive to sell their current crops to us, give them the tools and knowledge to grow replacement crops</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">- biofuels and food- and then guarantee them a fair (or more than fair) market price at the end. Start them on a cycle of energy independence while ending both the illegal drug trade and the main source of funding for terrorist networks. It is hugely less expensive than waging a military war and it encourages diplomacy and economic prosperity while undermining the root financing of terrorism. And there is even one piece of that puzzle already in place, though it is not seen through the right prism. And that is cannabis/hemp. </span>


<span class="cite">No systemic offense-- Normal means is that it would be stored for medical emergencies </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Times 09</span></span> (February 20, 2009,” The Afghan opium crop: buy it or legalise it?” Jeremy Page, South Asia Correspondent; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/asia/article5769154.ece]]</span>)[AB]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">For Western governments exasperated by their failure to curb the Afghan drugs trade there are two tempting solutions gaining credence in some circles: buy it or legalise it.</span></span> When the US-led invasion toppled the Taleban Government eight years ago, Afghanistan's opium production was virtually zero because the clerics had largely eradicated poppy cultivation. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Last year Afghanistan produced</span></span> 7,700 tonnes of opium - worth about $2.9 billion (£2 billion) - accounting for <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">90 per cent of the world's illegal supply. The US alone spends $1 billion a year in Afghanistan on a counter-narcotics strategy that Richard Holbrooke, the US special envoy to the region, calls “the single most ineffective policy in the history of American foreign policy”.</span></span> Britain, for its part, spent £2.5 billion last year on military operations against a Taleban insurgency inextricably linked to the drugs trade. So wouldn't it be cheaper and easier to purchase the entire crop? James Nathan, a former State Department official and now a professor at Auburn University in Alabama, believes so. “Purchasing the whole crop would take it away from the traffickers without cutting more than half the economy out of Afghanistan,” he wrote recently. Top of Form Bottom of Form He estimated it would cost between $2 billion and $2.5billion a year; a fraction of the $200 billion Afghanistan has cost the US taxpayer so far. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The opium would be stored in the US, and perhaps released for future medical emergencies.</span></span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empirically proven with Turkey </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 07 </span></span>(“Opium in Afghanistan: Eradicate or subsidize?” By Donald G. McNeil Jr. Published: Sunday, October 14, 2007 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/14/world/asia/14iht-poppies.1.7880964.html]]</span>) [AB]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">There is an American precedent for buying. In the late 1960s, the Nixon administration, fighting a heroin epidemic, pressured Turkey, then the world's chief grower, to eradicate its poppy crops. </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Unable to do that (both because of corruption and because peasant farmers in Turkey can vote), Turkey started licensing farmers in 1974 to grow poppies for the morphine trade, and the United States gave protected-market status to Turkey and India in 1981, obligating itself to buy 80 percent of the raw material for American painkillers from them. Why not, the Senlis Council and others argue, let Afghanistan join the legitimate supply chain? </span></span>



<span class="cite">The CP saves 200 Million while saving soldiers lives; kills Talibans income of 50 billion—comparatively better then plan action </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 07 </span></span>(“Opium in Afghanistan: Eradicate or subsidize?” By Donald G. McNeil Jr. Published: Sunday, October 14, 2007 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/14/world/asia/14iht-poppies.1.7880964.html]]</span>) [AB]</span>

Most prominent among these proposals is an analysis by the Senlis Council, a drug-policy research group with offices in London, Brussels and Kabul. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The council argues that the United States and Britain waste more than $800 million a year, as well as soldiers' lives, trying futilely to eradicate poppies. Instead, it calculated two years ago, Afghanistan's whole crop could be purchased for about $600 million - the "farm gate" price, not the street value of the heroin into which it is refined, which is over $50 billion. </span></span>(The "farm gate" estimate has gone up as the crop has increased, and may be $1 billion now.) <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Whatever the price, "enforcement will not work,"</span></span> said Romesh Bhattacharji, a former narcotics commissioner of India who has investigated the Afghan situation for the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Afghan farmer will not switch to alternative crops as long as there is a market for his opium." </span></span>


b.) The perm is a sign of a “improve and exit” strategy that kills hegemony, causes Taliban takeover and Pakistan collapse
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 09</span></span> (Ashley; B.A., M.A.; University of Bombay; M.A., Ph.D., The University of Chicag; is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. While on assignment to the U.S. Department of State as senior adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, he was intimately involved in negotiating the civil nuclear agreement with India. “Reconciling with the Taliban? Torward an alternative grand strategy in Afghanistan”; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]</span>)[AB]</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">What will make the greatest difference on this issue, and to the eventual outcome in afghanistan more generally, is the durability of the U .S . Commitment to that country</span></span> . Simply put<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, an ironclad determination is required to stay involved in assuring afghanistan’s security over the long term</span></span> . <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Entertaining the notion of an exit strategy, as President obama unfortunately did earlier, is particularly dangerous because, by signaling american impatience in regard to the mission in afghanistan, it will have exactly the effect of spurring the insurgents to outlast the international coalition; encouraging important afghan bystanders, whose cooperation is necessary to defeat the Taliban, to persist in their prevailing ambivalence because the current dispensation in Kabul will be quickly assessed as perishable and hence unworthy of their enduring support; and inducing islamabad to eschew relinquishing its support for the Taliban because of its expectation that the insurgents may once again be required to protect Pakistan’s interests in the regional security competition that will ensue after the United States departs</span></span> . Attempting to mitigate these problems by transiently accelerating american support to afghanistan, merely in order to permit “us and our partners to wind down our combat operations,” 146 as the administration’s white Paper phrased it, will not work either . Whether through reconciliation with the Taliban, or through a predominant concentration on counterterrorism, or through a passing increase in american investments in Kabul, such an approach would betray all the indicators that motivate the insurgents, the bystanders, and the regional states, such as iran and Pakistan, to simply wait washington out as they protect their own interests in the interim through means that will ultimately undermine the professed american intention “to defeat al Qaeda and combat extremism .” <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Success in afghanistan, therefore, cannot be achieved through any cheap solutions focused on delivering temporary amelioration—an “improve and exit” strategy—but only by a serious commitment to building an effective afghan state, which, in turn, will require a decision to “invest and endure” over the long hau</span></span>l . Although this latter approach undoubtedly adds to America’s current economic and political burdens, the importance of the national security objectives implicated in Afghanistan demands no less of the Obama administration “through deeds as well as words” if it is to faithfully discharge its obligation of protecting the American people. 




<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NB internal link turns offense—troops key to crack down on drug trade </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">North 10</span></span> (Oliver; Lt. Col. North (Ret.) is a nationally syndicated columnist and the author of the FOX News/Regnery books, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6405|"War Stories: Operation Iraqi Freedom,"]][[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6569| "War Stories II: Heroism in the Pacific"]]</span> and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6853|"War Stories III: The Heroes Who Defeated Hitler."]]</span> Lt. North hosts "War Stories Investigates: Drugs, Money and Narco-Terror" Saturday, Aug. 22, at 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. EDT on Fox News Channel; “Ending Opium Trade Key to Victory in Afghanistan”; <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=36093]]</span>; 3/23/10)AB </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Driven underground, Taliban leaders found it increasingly difficult to finance their cause.</span></span> As international pressure and aggressive monetary tracking dried up much of their foreign support, insurgent leaders turned to revenues from opium to sustain their movement. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Shutting down Taliban-controlled opium poppy cultivation, processing laboratories, caches, “delivery services” and money laundering operations has become a crucial mission for the U.S.-led coalition.</span></span> According <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">to the United Nations, more than ninety percent of the world’s illicit opium, heroin and morphine base originates here in southern Afghanistan – primarily in Helmand and neighboring Kandahar provinces. Refined “product,” estimated to be worth more than $3 billion</span></span>, is then moved via “ratlines” through neighboring countries to consumers in Europe, Russia, Iran and the United States.


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC evidence says the plan is the exact opposite of what the US should do; withdrawal would fuel insurgencies and causes Taliban take-over </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaze, 1AC Author, 07 </span></span>(John A. Glaze, lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey, “Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online)AB</span>

<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Increase Troop Levels and Eliminate National Restrictions</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The total number of U.S and NATO troops in Afghanistan should be increased to at least 50,000, which approximately represents a 10,000-soldier increase over the current level, to counter the growing number of aggressive anti-government elements, particularly in 12 the southern provinces</span></span>. Robert Hunter of the RAND Corporation states flatly that “40,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan are not enough,” and that some provinces have “little or no ISAF presence.”67 These 10,000 additional troops are needed to defeat anti-government forces that have put up stiff resistance and have co-opted support from local Afghans<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. Increasing troop levels in Afghanistan will help provide security needed in the regions with the highest level of conflict and opium production</span></span>. NATO countries should supply at least half of the 10,000-soldier increase, and they need to drop individual national stipulations that limit where and how their troops can be employed. The ISAF Commander has been asking for more troops, but has thus far received only lukewarm responses from NATO countries reluctant to get involved in the fighting. Several NATO countries have refused to send more troops and have imposed rules limiting their forces’ participation in actual combat.68 <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Due to a lack of troops, especially line units assignable to combat, the ISAF commander essentially has been forced to abandon portions of southern Afghanistan to Taliban and insurgent forces. </span></span>

Withdrawal/ Taliban Takeover causes Indo-Pak conflict
Alexander <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Downer</span></span>**,** Former Australian Foreign Affairs Minister, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7/19</span></span>**/**10 (Advertiser "We can't leave yet", lexis)
Afghanistan is now the longest war in which the United States has participated. I find that a quite chilling statistic. Many more may have died in World War II, the Vietnam War, the Korean War and in earlier conflicts, but none has gone on as long as this. What is more, there seems to be no end in sight and this makes people wonder whether the sacrifice of our and our allies' soldiers in Afghanistan is worthwhile. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When making an assessment of war, we are always struck by the obvious: War is ugly and our people are dying, therefore we must stop fighting. But remember, the quickest way to end a war is to lose it. So before leaping to the conclusion that surrendering to the Taliban is the least bad option, think through the consequences of defeat. Think what would happen to Afghanistan, to its neighbourhood and well beyond. First, the Taliban would seize control of most of Afghanistan fairly quickly. I doubt very much that the government of President Hamid Karzai would last long. The President himself has been a disappointment. He is relatively weak and he has appointed many poor-quality governors and other leaders</span></span> throughout the country. This hasn't helped his cause. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The relatively benign Karzai regime would be replaced by militant extremists. SECOND, the Taliban would once more allow Afghanistan to become a base for international Islamic extremist operations. It would certainly become both an administrative and training base for al-Qaida but it would become more than that: It would become the global focal point for Islamic extremism. Islamic fundamentalists would, in effect, have their own sovereign state from which they could launch operations anywhere in the world. Third, the collapse of the moderate Karzai administration in Afghanistan and its replacement by the Taliban would be a serious threat to the stability of Pakistan.</span></span> Remember, the Taliban was established by the Pakistani intelligence services during the time of the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">There are still very close links between the Taliban and some elements of the Pakistani intelligence agency, ISI. It is possible that the Taliban and other Islamic extremists could seize control of the government of Pakistan which, you will recall, has nuclear weapon</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">s</span></span>. It is not certain this would happen but it could. If it did, then <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">tensions between Pakistan and India would rise overnigh</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">t</span></span>, perhaps dangerously so. For the Indians, a combination of Islamic extremists and nuclear weapons on their border would be a potent mix. Fourth, this would constitute a massive and unexpected victory for Islamic extremists. For all the pain we have been through over the past nine years since 9/11, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there is no doubt that Islamic extremism is very much on the retreat outside Afghanistan. There has been no terrorist attack on American soil since then - although there have been attempts - nor has there been in this country. Al-Qaida networks have been broken up throughout the Western world and in the Middle East and South-East Asia. In Europe, governments are also having much greater success now in dealing with terrorism. A Taliban victory and takeover in Afghanistan would reverse all this. We would be back where we were in 2001. And if Pakistan were taken over by Islamic extremists, we would be a good deal worse off. Globally, Islamic extremism would be energised, its morale revitalised and its activities intensified. All this explains why it is not possible to abandon the struggle against the Taliban in Afghanistan. The war itself is bad, there is no doubt about that. No victory appears to be in sight any time soon, that is true. But the alternative is a great deal worse.</span></span> The challenge in Afghanistan is not to try to control the country ourselves but to strengthen the capacity of the government in Kabul to control it. This means emphasising training and recruitment in the army, effective aid programs to give Afghanistan a reasonable economic base and encouraging President Karzai to appoint better-quality public administrators.

Policies are beginning to solve Afghanistan’s drug problem 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">UNODC 9</span></span> (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/2009/September/afghan-opium-production-in-significant--decline.html, AD: 7/7/10) jl</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Opium poppy cultivation has fallen to 123,000 hectares</span></span>, down <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">from a peak of 193,000 hectares</span></span> in 2007. This year, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the most significant decrease was</span></span> recorded <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">in Helmand Province, where cultivation declined by a third</span></span> to 69,833 hectares from 103,590 hectares in 2008. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The dramatic turnaround in one of Afghanistan's most unstable provinces can be attributed to an effective mix of</span></span> sticks and carrots: strong <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">leadership</span></span> by the governor; <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a more aggressive counter-narcotics offensive</span></span>; terms of trade that are more favourable to legal crops; and the successful introduction of "food zones" to promote licit farming.

Don’t risk the link – disruption of counter-narcotics operations could recede all progress
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Patience 8</span></span> (Martin, BBC News, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/7582018.stm, AD: 7/7/10) jl</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The reduction comes after the record-breaking poppy harvest in 2007, the UN</span></span> report <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">says</span></span>. 
It declares that that "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">opium flood waters in Afghanistan have started to recede</span></span>". 
But one Western official who works on the poppy issue has said that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">any progress has been "fragile"</span></span> and gains <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could be reversed</span></span> in the next year. 

Plan kills credibility and causes Taliban Takeover 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">John <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byrnes</span></span>, Fmr. Advisor to the Afghan National Police on counter-insurgency, 9/7/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>American Thinker (Afghanistan Matters, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/2334403/posts]]</span>)</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Afghanistan continues to be a failed state, Pakistan is failing. We have the opportunity to continue to influence events in the region due to our presence in Afghanistan. Should the US withdraw entirely from Afghanistan certain events are highly likely to unfold. The first would be a Taliban victory in Afghanistan. The Taliban might not see the complete victory they achieved in 1996. They would at least end up seizing and dominating several provinces.</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> These provinces would certainly include several, North and East, which dominate the landlocked nation’s rudimentary road net. The Taliban would gain a stranglehold on the Afghan economy. They would also rule the Pashtun speaking border region. The resulting consequences of this outcome are impossible to predict. However a larger autonomous Taliban dominated zone would surely threaten the weak Pakistani government. The unspoken, nightmare outcome, we all seek to avoid, is the takeover of Pakistan by the Taliban. Pakistan is a nuclear power. Yet in spite of this modern achievement, it is a failing nation. Assassination and civil violence have dominated recent politics. The populace is fragmented ethnically and politically. The urban elites live western lives with modern hopes. Most others live poor desperate lives. Islam is the single greatest unifying factor. Pakistanis of various ethnicities have shown a consistent predilection for anti-American, anti-western, pro-Taliban politics. Two or even three Talibanized nations in place of today’s Afghanistan and Pakistan are in no one’s interest, especially if one of them is nuclear armed. Remember, Afghanistan’s western neighbor is the WMD seeking state of Iran. That nation has infiltrated arms and personnel into the western Farsi speaking provinces of Afghanistan to pressure the US and Afghan governments, and to create its own sphere of influence. George Will’s imagined scenario of special-forces and airpower serving in place of boots on the ground in Afghanistan surely sounds good to deskbound policy wonks. But they would do well to remember that policy failed us through the Clinton era. At that time Pakistan was under the more stable hand of Musharraf.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If we abandon our foothold in Afghanistan, we abandon our contacts on the ground.</span></span> In order for predators, cruise missiles, and SF operators to succeed repeatedly against al-Qaeda, or any other enemies, our forces need human intelligence. This is why al-Qaeda and the Taliban high command retreated to and continue to hide in the inaccessible reaches of Pakistan. It’s why al-Qaeda chose the then closed state of Afghanistan as a base in the first place. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A premature withdrawal from Afghanistan will also present a tremendous propaganda victory to the Taliban. This would be a truly strategic weapon for all of our Islamist enemies in the current struggle. George Will has stepped up his campaign, and now wants to quit Iraq early as well. He cites the ties that Shiite Iran has established with Shiite Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki as a reason to end our commitment there. If we were to follow Mr. Will’s prescription, by 2011 we could be facing a hostile band of powers stretching from the India-Pakistan border through Syria, to the Mediterranean. This would be the worst middle-eastern scenario the US ever faced, as bad as the Soviet dominated region envisioned by Carter and Reagan circa 1980. We could face two Islamic, hostile, nuclear powers. Such an outcome would represent the beginning of the end for Israel. It would signify the end of American hegemony, and the start of a truly new world order; one that would be highly unfavorable to our interests.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">These are just the consequences for us. Mr. Will would also abandon the Afghans, the Iraqis and others to the Taliban to the likeminded Shia of Iran, and to al-Qaeda. He and his applause section remind us that Islam is incompatible with democracy, that extremism pervades the region, and that generally we have no business there anymore.While I do not subscribe to the left’s drivel that poverty and frustration are the root of terrorism, I think that a poorer more Islamic mid-east will be more miserable for the Afghans and Iraqis, and the Pakistanis and Iranians. Having spent time in both Iraq and Afghanistan, I have seen that most people there want peace and prosperity. They want to end the violence and raise their children more comfortably than poverty and war has thus far allowed. While Islam may indeed lend itself to oppressive rule, so did Christianity, for nearly two millennia of Romans, feudalism, and absolutism. Today, millions of Iraqis and Afghans have shown an appreciation for democracy, and the idea of peaceful, lawful change of governments. Come to think of it, so have the much abused Lebanese. In Iran, millions voted, and when the mullahs executed a massive electoral fraud millions protested. In India millions of Muslims regularly live peaceful lives in a democracy. It is true that democratizing the Islamic world is not, and should not be the primary prescriptive mission of the US military. However to cede the entire middle-east to the forces of extremism,</span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">to abandon our allies, to surrender our security, and make the world a much more dangerous place seems folly.</span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Congress CP**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP Text: The United States Congress should end all funding for .</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The plan would go through the executive; CP uses the power of the purse to unilaterally to end funding for the presence—empirically proven</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosen 07</span></span> (Jefferey; NYT writer;“In Wartime, Who has the Power?”; Published: March 4, 2007</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span>)AB</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">THE Constitution seems relatively clear. ….you could have 535 generals shouting instructions</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow;">.”</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Absent Congress taking back executive power from the Bush administration—a framework for executive power will be set in stone. Congress has the power to end war and the CP is key to support of the public.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schenwar 09</span></span> (Executive Director of Truthout; Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers Wednesday 14 January 2009 <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.truth-out.org/011409J|//by: Maya Schenwar, Executive Director, t r u t h o u t// ]]</span>)AB</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As America anticipates the official arrival of the ….</span></span> Bush's action is a major breach, according to Lee.</span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="tagChar">Nuclear War</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forrester 89</span></span> [Ray, Professor, @ Hastings College of the Law, University of California, Former dean of the law schools at Vanderbilt, Tulane, and Cornell, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem” George Washington Law Review, August, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1636, Lexis]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A basic theory--if not the basic theory of our Constitution--is that <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">…-remains in the sole possession of the President</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span></span>

===MIB PIC=== 

[[#_Toc285829160]][[#_Toc285828824]][[#_Toc285828767]]
**Text:**
**The United States Federal Government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military in the Republic of South Korea with the exception of the Military Intellegence Brigade and the troops located in the Joint Security Area.**

**The MIB and JSA are key to modernizing the South’s military**
**CUMMINGS 2004** (Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
__USFK should share with the ROK military training and assets required to execute counterbattery and JSA missions. The Military Intelligence Brigade stationed in South Korea should remain in place to enable ROK military access to U.S. national reconnaissance assets. The U.S. should accommodate all reasonable ROK training requests and equipment transfers.__

**These capabilities are key even if the ROK forces are powerful**
**CUMMINGS 2004** (Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
The strength of the ROK defense structure lies in the combat power of their ground forces. If there is a weakness, it may be in the ROK military’s inability to assume missions currently carried out by United States Forces, Korea (USFK). __Although the ROK military has kept pace with improvements to weapons platforms, they have made less progress in making improvements to their command and control structure. This appears to be an obstacle to ROK assuming USFK missions__. In a recent joint news conference with both United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and South Korea Minister of Defense Cho Yung Kil, plans were 4 announced to transfer 10 military missions from USFK to the ROK military5. Cho reported that the ROK military will have no problem assuming 8 of the 10 missions. He went on to state that ROK will need more time to take over the remaining two missions. __The two missions in question are counter-battery fire against North Korean artillery units along the DMZ and security of the Joint Security Area (JSA) in Panmunjon. In their execution of both missions, U.S. forces rely on command and control systems to integrate intelligence sensors such as weapons locating radars, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and direct observation__, to name a few. __These command and control systems are crucial in developing and establishing an operating picture for the combatant commander. In order for the ROK military to successfully assume the remaining two missions without degradation in readiness, improvements in the area of command and control systems must be made. An investment in technology to improve ROK military command and control systems is essential to speed transition of missions from USFK to ROK responsibility.__

**That’s key to solve Chinese aggression and Korean conflict**
**Bandow, 09** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606, )
South Korea's foreign minister reports that Washington plans to guarantee his nation's defense against a nuclear-armed North Korea in writing. The promise reportedly will be formalized when South Korean President Lee Myung-bak visits the United States this week. It's a bad idea. Washington should be shedding defense responsibilities, not increasing them. More than a half century after the Korean War, the Republic of Korea (ROK) remains surprisingly dependent on America. It's as if the United States was cowering before the Mexican military, begging its friends in Europe for help. In fact, the ROK requires no assistance to defend itself from conventional attack. __The__ so-called Democratic People's Republic of Korea (__DPRK) has a strong numerical military advantage over the South: about 1.1 million personnel under arms, compared to fewer than seven hundred thousand for Seoul. Pyongyang also has impressive numbers of other weapons, including more than four thousand tanks and roughly eighteen thousand artillery pieces. However, most of the North's equipment is decades old, a generation or two behind even that of the long-gone Soviet Union. Training is minimal and many of the DPRK's military personnel perform construction and similar tasks.__ The Korean peninsula's rugged geography favors defense. __Putting thousands of antiquated tanks backed by hundreds of thousands of malnourished soldiers on the move south would create a human "turkey shoot" of epic proportions.__ Anyway, the ROK's numerical inferiority is a matter of choice, not an immutable artifact of geography. In its early years the South's resources were sharply limited. But today, South Korea is thought to have upwards of forty times the North's GDP. Seoul also possesses a substantial industrial base, sports high-tech expertise and enjoys a sterling international credit rating. The ROK's population is twice that of the North. South Korea could spend more than the equivalent of North Korea's entire economy on defense if the former wished. But it hasn't wished to do so, preferring to rely on Washington instead. The time for subsidizing wealthy allies has long passed. __The financial crisis makes it imperative that the United States return to such nations responsibility for their own defense__. Undoubtedly an American withdrawal would result in a far-reaching debate among South Koreans over how much they felt threatened by the North and how much they believed necessary to spend in response. But that is precisely the debate they should have had years ago. The prospect of a nuclear North Korea obviously is more frightening than even one with ample numbers of artillery pieces targeting the city of Seoul. But there is little reason to believe that the North has any deliverable weapons at this point. Given present course, that time is likely, but not certain, to come. However, South Korea has time to prepare. Rather than relying on America for its protection, Seoul should invest in missile defense and enhance its air-defense capabilities. The South also should consider creating a conventional deterrent: the ability to respond to a nuclear strike by eliminating the Kim regime. That means developing potent offensive missile and air attack capabilities. (Japan, despite its quasi-pacifist constitution, should do the same__.) Such forces would help fulfill a second function: deter an aggressive China, if Beijing ever changed its policy from the oft-repeated "peaceful rise" to a more belligerent stance. The People's Republic of China (PRC) has much to gain from stability in East Asia and has worked to assure its neighbors of its peaceful intentions. However, the future is unknowable. The best way for Beijing's neighbors to ensure China's rise is peaceful is to maintain armed forces sufficient to deter the PRC from considering military action. Such a "dual use" capability would benefit the United States as well. The objective would not be a high-profile attempt at containment, but a low-profile capacity for deterrence, relieving Washington of any need to intervene__. Most important, America should not reflexively extend its "nuclear umbrella" in response to the future possibility of a nuclear North Korea. Doing so would inevitably deepen American involvement in regional controversies, potentially turning every local dispute into an international crisis.

**Extinction**
**Adams, 09** – reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan (3/31/09, Jonathon, Global Post, “The dragon sharpens its claws,” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china-and-its-neighbors/090331/the-dragon-sharpens-its-claws)
But the most recent Pentagon report on China's military power — released last week — shows how high the stakes have become, in the unlikely event the United States and China ever do come to blows__. China has the world's fastest-growing military. It is building state-of-the art fighter jets, destroyers, and anti-ship missiles worth billions of dollars. It's just confirmed it will build an aircraft carrier. And according to the Pentagon, it's now fielding a new nuclear force able to "inflict significant damage on most large American cities."__ Most disturbing, __Chinese military officials have publicly threatened to use that capability against the United States__ — in a conflict over Taiwan. __"China doesn't just threaten war, it threatens nuclear war__," said John Tkacik, a China expert and former U.S. diplomat, at a forum in Taipei last weekend. "__This is the kind of thing that rattles cages in the U.S__." For now, Taiwan is the only plausible cause of military conflict between the world's superpower and the rising Asian giant.

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Russia ADV CP**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CP TEXT: The United States federal government should</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">-overturn the NATO Freedom Consolidation Act of 2007</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">-stop missile defense implementation</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">- repudiate the Bush administration’s National Security Strategy of 2002 and 2006</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It solves</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jeffery </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor, </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">is an Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Medvedev Spoils the Party,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; color: blue; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama/2]]</span>]AB</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The question then arises: what should the incoming</span></span>. …. its defense expenditures and redirect taxpayer dollars to other priorities.</span>


===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Gulf Detterence CP**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States federal government should offer formal security guarantees to Israel, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, and all Gulf States except Iran to protect them in the event of Iranian aggression. The United States should inform Iran that the use of nuclear weapons, by Iran or by a terrorist proxy, will be met with a response that ends the current regime in Iran, and that an Iranian nuclear test constitutes a redline that could trigger stepped up United States attempts at regime change or United States attacks against Iranian oil assets.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">That solves deterrence issues</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March)AB</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">As</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the sole remaining <span style="background-color: yellow;">superpower</span> and guarantor of …... <span style="background-color: yellow;">In the end, nuclear proliferation is a fact. How it is managed will determine whether or not it adds or detracts from regional security.</span></span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">That solves proliferation, hegemony and economic decline</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March)AB</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">The Arabian Gulf is a critical area of the world for U.S. security …. joining a nuclear umbrella to offset Iran’s nuclear weapons.</span></span></span>





===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Training CP**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc277194798]][[#_Toc276683000]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CP Text: The United States federal government should use the current militaries on Okinawa and Guam to engage in joint military training off of the coast of Japan. The United States federal government should ask Japan to engage in these trainings. The United States federal government should provide co-location of air and missile defense commands at Yokota Air Base and the Ground Self-Defense Force’s Central Readiness Force with a transformed U.S. Army command and control structure to integrate Japan into them. The United States federal government will not engage in training 12 nautical miles off of the coast of Japan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Japan says yes, solves alliance, the internal link to defense integration, is the biggest internal link to speed and response and increases trilateral relations with South Korea</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFPS</span></span> Lisa Daniel American Forces Press Service March 18, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> “U.S.-Japan Relations Remain Strong, Official Says” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=58392</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“The only readily deployable U.S. ground forces between Hawaii and ….. Europe, and its assistance with humanitarian relief to Haiti and other areas.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">That solves democracy, china spread, rule of law, East Asia instability, social advancements, human rights violations and economic collapse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Auslin ‘5** (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A roadmap for Tokyo and Seoul's security cooperation exists in their current participation in regional multilateral forums. Both Seoul and Tokyo are members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Community and the __asean__ Regional Forum. The latter in p…..Taiwan and the Philippines.</span>


==Disads== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 21px; line-height: 32px;">__China Con__</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc277194799]][[#_Toc276683001]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">China-Japan tension is high over Senkaku dispute—only US military presence in Japan prevents war</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Global Security 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(9/3, </span><span style="color: blue;">http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/senkaku.htm</span><span style="color: black;">, NB: the quoted text is</span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">from Ian Bremmer, President of the Eurasia Group)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Last year, there were reportedly some 47,000 demonstrations …**to the presence of US forces nearby.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">China is pursuing aggressive policy towards East China sea now—withdrawal leads to conflict and Chinese</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">regional hegemony</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Caryl 2010 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Christian, Foreign Policy, “Navel Gazing in Asia,”</span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/05/18/naval_gazing_in_asia)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Beneath the two countries' wrangling on the high seas lies a complicated ….**iance for fissures**."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Asian war goes nuclear and global—maintaining troop levels is key- turns case</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Sheridan 9 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Greg, Foreign editor – The Australian, “Hatoyama poised for global struggle,” The Australian, 9-5-09,</span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">Kurt Campbell, now the US Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the Pacific….</span> **<span style="color: black;">Japan and the US military bases it hosts are central to the US position in Asia. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Japan, a nation of 125 million people, is still the world's second-largest economy, far bigger than any of the Europeans. The Obama administration seems to get this.</span></span>

===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SKFTA </span>=== 

[[#_Toc285007526]]
**SKFTA will pass now but focus, Bipart and political capital is key**
Thomas "Mack" **McLarty** III and Nelson W. **Cunningham, 1/24**/11<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>chief of staff to Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort, AND Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden, “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity,” 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much has been written about Bill Daley's selection as White House chief of staff, a position sometimes called "Chief Javelin Catcher" (a title whose accuracy one of us strongly affirms). </span>Most agree that<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. </span>Daley is the perfect choice to help<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span>Obama set a new tone for his presidency<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He is a moderate, strongly rooted in Democratic principles and politics. Though he comes from the business community, he is no colorless technocrat or Republican shill. He is a Daley from Chicago and will not forget the needs of the lunchbucket voters who've supported Daleys for 50 years, or the political lessons he learned at the knee of his father, Mayor Richard J. Daley. Mr. </span>Daley will need all his political skills to tackle what we think should become one of the signature accomplishments of his tenure: the return of liberalized trade as a centerpiece of Democrats' vision of economic competitiveness and globalization.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bill Clinton embraced this vision, and he understood that trade liberalization required strong bipartisan efforts. To pass the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) in 1993, we set up a bipartisan war room within the White House, headed by Bill Daley and former Republican Congressman Bill Frenzel. Messrs. Daley and Frenzel worked together, with the full support of the president and White House staff, to push Nafta through the House with 102 Democratic and 132 Republican votes, and on to an equally bipartisan total in the Senate. Liberalized trade was also at the heart of President Clinton's view that America needed international competition to succeed in an increasingly trade-dependent world. Not every Democrat supported this view, though Mr. Clinton strongly pushed it within the party. But we quickly lost this bipartisan consensus and the progress Mr. Clinton had forged in his own party. By 1997, when Mr. Clinton sought renewal of "fast track" authority to negotiate more trade agreements, Republican Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich could not corral his majority to support the president and the effort failed. And although President George W. Bush did manage to make congressional headway on trade with his Republican majorities, he did so principally with Republican support. In the first two years of President Obama's tenure, progress on trade was largely frozen. Mr. Obama stated his support for the uncompleted pieces of the Bush trade agenda -- free trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and Colombia, the dangling Doha World Trade Organization round, and Russia WTO accession -- but little measurable progress was made. Now, </span>in a few short weeks<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Mr. </span>Obama has renegotiated the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement and announced that it will be a priority in the new Congress.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> He has taken steps to resolve a longstanding trade dispute with Mexico over trucks that goes back to the Clinton years. And, with his selection of Mr. Daley, the president has hired the man who can make this trade revival a reality. What now? </span>Our experience tells us that the only way to push a major trade agreement through Congress -- **even one where the nominally pro-trade GOP rules the House** -- is with **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">strong and unyielding presidential leadership</span>,** a unified White House staff and cabinet, and a genuinely bipartisan approach to stakeholders and the Congress.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> First, </span>**the president must be fully committed.** Nafta was a bipartisan success in no small part because of the personal involvement of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. </span>Clinton and sometimes tortuous negotiations with members of Congress.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It's true that some pork was doled out and more than one bridge was built as a result of a Nafta vote -- something they probably still understand in Chicago. Second, the White House and cabinet must be unified in pulling for passage. Everyone from Vice President Joe Biden to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk must be fully engaged, without hesitation. Don't forget the crucial role that then-Vice President Al Gore's 1993 debate with Ross Perot played in swinging public opinion in favor of Nafta. Third, </span>**the effort must be genuinely bipartisan. We'll need <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">scores of members from both sides</span> to make passage possible**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (this is particularly true with a large tea party GOP caucus that is as yet undefined on trade). Perhaps Mr. Obama could even take a page from the 1993 playbook and bring into the White House a prominent Republican -- former U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, former Reagan Chief of Staff Ken Duberstein, or a former congressman such as Jim Kolbe or Chris Shays, for example -- to help quarterback the effort. Finally, the president has to show that his commitment to the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement isn't a one-off. Moderates and independents who have been spooked by an economic approach they see as veering strongly to the left are looking for signs that this president embraces their centrist views. A commitment to deficit reduction, sustained outreach to business, and a genuine embrace of trade liberalization must go hand-in-hand. Most importantly, the president should commit to advancing the pending trade agreements with Colombia and Panama right now, instead of leaving them until later as some in his administration would prefer. Why bother taking a half-measure on trade? </span>A full-throated campaign for the Korea, Colombia and Panama trade agreements, along with WTO accession for Russia, can help reset this presidency. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Capitalizing on his selection of Mr. Daley with a renewed American trade policy, Mr. Obama has the chance to remind moderates in both parties and independent voters that he is the man they voted for in 2008 -- a leader who appreciates the goals of businesses large and small, and who sees America as confident and innovative enough to remain the global economy's True North. It also gives the president the opportunity to strengthen ties with longtime allies who cultivate liberal democracy, reject old and ugly political and social traditions, stand shoulder-to-shoulder with us when it comes to fighting the world's darkest forces, and are willing to open their markets to us -- or in the case of Russia, to encourage that behavior. It won't be easy, and it may alienate some in the Democratic base, but it is essential. </span>


[[#_Toc285007527]]

Military withdrawals abroad spur fierce opposition – defies conventional Washington wisdom, perceived as security threat and sparks intense lobbying from business and military 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Englehart 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com , “Yes, We Could…. Get Out! – Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq” Atlantic Free Press -- lexis] </span>

<span style="margin-left: 15pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Have you noticed, by the way, that </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there’s always some obstacle in the path of withdrawal</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Right now, in Iraq, it’s the aftermath of the March 7th election, hailed as proof that we brought democracy to the Middle East and so, whatever our missteps, did the right thing. As it happens, the election, as many predicted at the time, has led to a potentially explosive gridlock and has yet to come close to resulting in a new governing coalition. With violence on the rise, we’re told, the planned drawdown of American troops to the 50,000 level by August is imperiled. Already, the process, despite repeated assurances, seems to be proceeding slowly. And yet, the thought that an American withdrawal should be held hostage to events among Iraqis all these years later, seems curious.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">There’s always some reason to hesitate</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- and it never has to do with us. </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Withdrawal would undoubtedly be far less of a brain-twister if Washington</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> simply committed itself wholeheartedly to getting out, and if it </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">stopped convincing itself that the presence of the U.S. military in distant lands was essential to a better world (and, of course, to a controlling position</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on planet Earth). A Brief History of American Withdrawal Of course, there’s a small problem here. </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">All evidence indicates that Washington doesn’t want to withdraw</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -- </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">not really, not from either region.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It has no interest in divesting itself of the global control-and-influence business, or of the military-power racket. That’s hardly surprising since we’re talking about a great imperial power and control</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or at least imagined control) </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">over the planet’s strategic oil lands</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

It’s key to free trade and hegemony 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cha</span></span>, Korea Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span> http://csis.org/files/publication/090615_korea_fta.pdf

President <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Obama’s meeting with</span></span> President <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Lee</span></span> Myung-bak of South Korea on Tuesday <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">will address many recent headlines: North Korea, UN Security Council actions, and the fate of Americans sentenced by Pyongyang to hard labor. Yet how KORUS is dealt with</span></span>—whether it merely merits broad statements about finding ways forward or instead establishes concrete actions and timelines for resolution—<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">will say a great deal about U.S. commitments to Korea and the world’s most dynamic region</span></span>. Just as critically, <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">it could signal an America at risk of abdicating the international leadership role it has played since the 1940s in advancing the open markets vital to economic recovery. KORUS</span></span>—the United States’ largest FTA since NAFTA—<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">dwarfs most recent agreements and could help restore critical U.S. jobs and exports to a Korean economy expected to be among the first to recover from the global crisis. The</span></span> nonpartisan <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">International Trade Commission estimates that enacting KORUS could boost U.S. GDP by as much as $11.9 billion and merchandise exports as much as $10.9 billion—a free economic stimulus without driving up U.S. debt. </span></span>Moreover, <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">KORUS’s importance to visions of larger free-trade areas in the Asia-Pacific and beyond should not be underestimated. As</span></span> World Trade Organization (<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">WTO) negotiations stall, one scenario for advancing trade is uniting scattered bilateral FTAs into multilateral arrangements. KORUS is both a strong model and—with provisions that allow other nations to join—a potentially powerful draw for building multilateral efforts in Asia and globally. When America launched KORUS negotiations, countries like Japan watched politely but dismissively. After it was negotiated, there was quiet but palpable interest by Tokyo</span></span> in exploring FTA talks—<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a testament to KORUS’s influence on one of the world’s largest economies. </span></span>Perhaps <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">even more important</span></span> than its economics <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">are KORUS’s strategic ramifications. KORUS helps elevate the U.S.-ROK alliance to a higher plane beyond its traditional military focus to the broader exchanges of a mature partnership. Koreans seek to strengthen bilateral ties and “trust” in the relationship—and there could be no more important way of advancing this than KORUS. Delaying KORUS would be an undeniable setback in the alliance’s growth</span></span>. Granted, it would not end an alliance based on shared values and interests. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">it could drive Seoul to look beyond America for strategic partners</span></span>. Korea is moving forward with FTAs with the European Union and across Asia while U.S. trade with Korea has already fallen behind that of China, Japan, and Europe. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">KORUS’s strategic ramifications reach beyond Korea to the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates’ <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">position in Asia and the world</span></span>. Protectionist rhetoric has thankfully avoided the fever pitch of the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, but “<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">buy American” provisions and unprecedented government interventions aimed at saving U.S. jobs have Asians watching nervously. Support of free trade is undeniably a component of America’s leadership and preeminent position in Asia and globally. A new U.S. administration that did not act on our largest outstanding FTA could be recorded in history as having walked away from trade efforts and weakened its leadership position at a critical juncture</span></span>. No FTA is perfect, and KORUS impacts politically sensitive areas of automobiles and beef that may need to be dealt with or clarified possibly in side agreements. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ratification of this agreement needs to be treated not just as an alliance issue but as a larger strategic issue for the promotion of free trade and for the strength of the U.S. position in Asia. </span></span>


[[#_Toc285007528]] (3/4) 
Economic primacy and East Asia alliances prevent geopolitical wars and miscalculation 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 2/8</span></span> (Zalmay; (are you really going to question this guy?) the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992; <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span>)AB </span>

Today, <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to the United States’ position as global leader. While the United States suffers from fiscal imbalances and low economic growth, the economies of rival powers are developing rapidly. The continuation</span></span> of these two trends <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could lead to a shift from American primacy toward a multi-polar </span></span>global <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">system</span></span>, leading in turn to <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">increased geopolitical rivalry and</span></span> even <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">war</span></span> among the great powers. The current recession is the result of a deep financial crisis, not a mere fluctuation in the business cycle. Recovery is likely to be protracted. The crisis was preceded by the buildup over two decades of enormous amounts of debt throughout the U.S. economy — ultimately totaling almost 350 percent of GDP — and the development of credit-fueled asset bubbles, particularly in the housing sector. When the bubbles burst, huge amounts of wealth were destroyed, and unemployment rose to over 10 percent. The decline of <span style="color: darkgreen; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1|tax]]</span> revenues and massive countercyclical spending put the U.S. government on an unsustainable fiscal path. Publicly held national debt rose from 38 to over 60 percent of GDP in three years. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Without faster economic growth and actions to reduce deficits, publicly held national debt is projected to reach dangerous proportions. </span></span>If <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1|interestrates]]</span> were to rise significantly, annual interest payments — which already are larger than the defense budget — would crowd out other spending or require substantial tax increases that would undercut economic growth. Even worse, if unanticipated events trigger what economists call a “sudden stop” in credit markets for U.S. debt, the United States would be unable to roll over its outstanding obligations, precipitating a sovereign-debt crisis that would almost certainly compel a radical retrenchment of the United States internationally. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Such scenarios would reshape the international order. It was the economic devastation of Britain and France during World War II, as well as the rise of other powers, that led both countries to relinquish their empires</span></span>. In the late 1960s, British leaders concluded that they lacked the economic capacity to maintain a presence “east of Suez.” Soviet economic weakness, which crystallized under Gorbachev, contributed to their decisions to withdraw from Afghanistan, abandon Communist regimes in Eastern Europe, and allow the Soviet Union to fragment. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If the U.S. debt problem goes critical, the United States would be compelled to retrench, reducing its military spending and shedding international commitments</span></span>. We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1|power]]</span>. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. The closing of the gap</span></span> between the United States and its rivals <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could intensify geopolitical competition among major powers, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, and undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation</span></span>. The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars. American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balan ce against emerging threats</span></span>. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States.</span></span> Either way<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.As rival powers rise, Asia in particular is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities</span></span>. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression. Given the risks, the United States must focus on restoring its economic and fiscal condition while checking and managing the rise of potential adversarial regional powers such as China. While we face significant challenges, the U.S. economy still accounts for over 20 percent of the world’s GDP. American institutions — particularly those providing enforceable rule of law — set it apart from all the rising powers. Social cohesion underwrites political stability. U.S. demographic trends are healthier than those of any other developed country. A culture of innovation, excellent institutions of higher education, and a vital sector of small and medium-sized enterprises propel the U.S. economy in ways difficult to quantify. Historically, Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today. The policy question is how to enhance economic growth and employment while cutting discretionary spending in the near term and curbing the growth of entitlement spending in the out years. Republican members of Congress have outlined a plan. Several think tanks and commissions, including President Obama’s debt commission, have done so as well. Some consensus exists on measures to pare back the recent increases in domestic spending, restrain future growth in defense spending, and reform the tax code (by reducing tax expenditures while lowering individual and corporate rates). These are promising options. The key remaining question is whether the president and leaders of both parties on Capitol Hill have the will to act and the skill to fashion bipartisan solutions. Whether we take the needed actions is a choice, however difficult it might be. It is clearly within our capacity to put our economy on a better trajectory. In garnering political support for cutbacks, the president and members of Congress should point not only to the domestic consequences of inaction — but also to the geopolitical implications. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">As the United States gets its economic and fiscal house in order, it should take steps to prevent a flare-up in Asia. The United States can do </span></span>

[[#_Toc285007529]] Shell (4/4) 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">so by signaling that its domestic challenges will not impede its intentions to check Chinese expansionism.</span></span> This can be done in cost-efficient ways. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">While China’s economic rise enables its military modernization and international </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">assertiveness, it also frightens rival powers. The Obama administration has wisely moved to strengthen relations with allies and potential partners in the region but more can be done.</span></span> Some Chinese policies encourage other parties to join with the United States, and the U.S. should not let these opportunities pass. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">China’s military assertiveness should enable security cooperation with countries on China’s periphery</span></span> — particularly Japan, India, and Vietnam — in ways that complicate Beijing’s strategic calculus. China’s mercantilist policies and currency manipulation — which harm developing states both in East Asia and elsewhere — should be used to fashion a coalition in favor of a more balanced trade system. Since Beijing’s over-the-top reaction to the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to a Chinese democracy activist alienated European leaders, highlighting human-rights questions would not only draw supporters from nearby countries but also embolden reformers within China. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Since the end of the Cold War, a stable economic and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=3|financial]]</span> condition at home has enabled America to have an expansive role in the world.</span></span> Today we can no longer take this for granted. Unless we get our economic house in order, there is a risk that domestic stagnation in combination with the rise of rival powers will undermine our ability to deal with growing international problems. <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Regional hegemons in Asia could seize the moment, leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.</span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**START**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc277932379]]We tend to not read uniqueness when pedro eats to many burritos.......</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">- Policy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. Withdrawal now would be political suicide – Obama would be pegged as weak on defense</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kapur, Raw Story Washington correspondent,<span class="cite"> 7-5<span style="font-weight: normal;">-10</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Sahil, THE WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, National News in Context “As Afghan War Drags On, Some Democrats Threaten Revolt, Votes Last Week Revealed Democratic Growing Schism.” <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://washingtonindependent.com/90906/as-afghan-war-drags-on-some-democrats-threaten-revolt]]</span>, accessed 7-16-10)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Generally, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">members of your own party support your foreign policy</span></span>,” he said. “<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It’s typical</span></span> that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">you have to worry more about the opposition party than your own</span></span>, and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the fact</span></span> that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Democrats are expressing reservations should send a warning sign to</span></span> the <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span></span> administration…<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> its promise to begin winding America’s involvement in the war next July. “6</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3. Capital is key to START ratification, Obama has room to juggle some issues but adding an additional contentious issue will doom arms control</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">James <span class="cite">Kitfield</span> October 9 <span class="cite">2009</span> The National Journal Group, Wars, Political Battles Complicate Obama Effort to Prevent Spread of Nuclear Weapons, Google News</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Because <span style="background-color: yellow;">arms control treaties require a two-thirds majority</span> vote in the Senate</span></span> for ratification…. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">arms control, but he'll pay a price.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">- Policy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">4. 12 internal links to nuclear war—one of these will turn case</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins</span></span> et al <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (Ambassador James F. Collins; Harvard; was appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program in January of 2007. He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East. Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP. Before his appointment as ambassador to Russia, he served as ambassador-at-large and special adviser to the secretary of state for the New Independent States in the mid 1990s and as deputy chief of mission and charge d'affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow from 1990 to 1993. In addition to three diplomatic postings in Moscow, he also held positions in the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, and the Consulate General in Izmir, Turkey. He is the recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service. Ambassador Collins has been active on the boards of non-profit organizations concerned with U.S. foreign policy and U.S. relations with Russia, East Europe, and Eurasia. He has served as a member of the board of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, the American Academy of Diplomacy, the Open World Leadership Center, and American Councils for International Education. He is also a member of the advisory board of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation and the Library of Foreign Literature in Moscow. Before joining the State Department, Ambassador Collins taught Russian and European history, American government, and economics at the U.S. Naval Academy. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993 START is Key to Reducing the Nuclear Threat James F. Collins, Matthew Rojansky The Hill, February 16, 2010)AB</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The debate about a new nuclear arms control agreement between the United States and Russia has devolved into a tug-of-war in ….<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, but if history is any guide, it is where we must begin</span></span>.</span>



===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Israel DA**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc277890539]][[#_Toc277890486]][[#_Toc277888744]][[#_Toc277887175]][[#_Toc277886099]][[#_Toc277886079]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Withdrawal will show Israel that there isn’t force to back up the sanctions on Iran; this leads to a strike on Iran</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">World of Judaica 7/18</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (7/18/10, " Israel may have Convinced US of Military Option for Iran; Attack by September? ", http://www.worldofjudaica.com/jewish-news/israel/israel-may-have-convinced-us-of-military-option-for-iran-attack-by-september/442/03/)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As sanctions on Iran begin to heat up, so do Iran’s nuclear efforts. ….. Palestinians do not make progress by then, the days of Netanyahu’s administration may be numbered, forcing him to make a decision regarding Iran by the start of Fall.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nuclear escalation**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Heritage Foundation 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(33 Minutes: Protecting America in The New Missile Age, Israel Nuclear Weapons, March 13, <span style="color: black;">http://www.heritage.org/33-minutes/israel-nuclear-weapons.htm</span>)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The nation of Iran has been giving hundreds of millions a year to support ….<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">unlike the world has seen.</span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Ethanol DA**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ethanol tax-credit will pass now despite the outcome of midterms but political capital is necessary to pass the bill that will in turn save the economy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bevill </span>**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3/11</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Kris; Editor @ EP Magazine; 11/3/10, " Post election: Groups continue to lobby for VEETC, California says yes to LCFS ", http://ethanolproducer.com/article.jsp?article_id=7108)AB</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Republican Party claimed victory Nov. 2 as …. tariff extension, he admitted, but it is possible.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(insert plan unpopular)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc140034284]][[#_Toc140033733]][[#_Toc140033320]][[#_Toc140004341]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[#_Toc140034285]][[#_Toc140033734]][[#_Toc140033321]][[#_Toc140004342]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--…. still<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> have to fight.</span></span></span>


==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Kritiks**</span>== 
===<span style="line-height: 23px;">Security K </span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite">The affirmatives epistemological prevention of threats seeks to legitimate the operation of power that produces the impacts in the first place- turning case. This vacuous space of reason culminates in nuclear annihilation.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite">Massumi 07 </span>(Brian, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal , “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It is certain that there will be adjustments. But it should be remembered that Bush referred …..<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (a certainty about what you and your opponent are capable of doing) dynamizes into an ontology or mode of being (a race for dear life).</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Our alternative does not preclude the policy of the 1ac. The alternative is to reject the aff’s representations of security; only a rejection of this in the debate space allows for political thought.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mark <span class="Author-Date">Neocleous</span>, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, <span class="Author-Date">‘08</span> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Garamond,serif;">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether </span>….. to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics.</span></span>

===<span style="line-height: 23px;">Ethics/ Schmitt K </span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The aff’s Dyadic depiction of suffering victimizes the subject resulting in dehumanization, these depictions just replace one form of colonialism with another, because the ethic the aff enforces makes further involvement with the subject inevitable</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">David **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chandler</span>** ( Research Fellow at the Policy Research Institute) 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span>** “ The Road to Military Humanitarianism: How the Human Rights NGOs Shaped A New Humanitarian Agenda” Human Rights Quarterly 23.3 muse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The search for victims has dominated media coverage of humanitarian crises. ….. __The misanthropic side to this development is drawn out further in the following section, which highlights the danger that rather than supplementing traditional humanitarianism, rights-based intervention can lead to the "ethical" justification for subordinating universal humanitarian needs to selective political ends.__</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic ethical structure that makes warfare inevitable</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Louiza **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Odysseus</span>** (PhD International Relations) March 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>** “ Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A third objection, still, has to do __with the imposition of particular kind of monism: despite the lip-service to plurality,……: the friend/enemy distinction is not longer taking place with a justus hostis but rather between good and evil, human and inhuman, where ‘the negative pole of the distinction is to be fully and finally consumed without remainder’__ (Rasch 2003: 137).</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Alternative Refuses the 1ACs Demand to Situate Politics In some Ethical Framework. We Ask You to Embrace a Capacity For Action Without Ground. This Avoids the Totalitarian Compulision //Legislate// a Harmonious Society into Existance</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dna Richard **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Villa</span>**, Prof. of Political Theory @ UC Santa Barbra, ’**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span>** [//Arendt and Heidegger: The Fate of The Political//, p. 159-163]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As a political principle, then, authority conflicts with Arendt's basic convictions as to what authentic politics is (namely, something that occurs only in "the egalitarian order of persuasion").92 How to explain the impression that she mourns its passing? This impression is created, in part, by her citing the …..__<span style="background-color: yellow;">, the “moral” means by which to prolong our mechanical habits of judgment and escape the complexity – and effort – of thinking and judging for ourselves.</span>__</span>

===<span style="line-height: 23px;">__Cede the Political K__ </span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The affirmative is banal. Your hippy authors and this round do NOTHING, rather it just appeases the system through reform, trapping us in the militarized empire.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 0in; padding: 0px;">Todd <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gitlin </span></span>formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">5</span></span> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 7/17/10 – http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_05.pdf</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">From the</span></span> late <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">New Left point of view,.....</span> <span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">mocking Left rather than a Left which dreams of achieving</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">our country.”4</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0">**Fascism and extinction**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0">**Boggs, 1997**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0">(Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6,http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The decline of the public sphere in ....</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> vanished from civil society.</span>__**<span style="background-color: yellow;">75</span></span></span>


<span style="display: inline ! important; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0">Our alternative is a vision of debate that connects argument to instrumental politics. We know fiat isn’t real but a connection to political advocacy is key to engaging the public. Use the ballot to reject their insular approach that forgoes meaningful political advocacy.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Giroux, 04</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(Henry, professor of English and cultural studies at McMaster University in Canada, Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, </span></span>Numbers<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> 3 & 4, 2004, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism: </span></span>making the political more pedagogical”, http://www.wwwords.co</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">.uk/pdf/viewpdf.asp?j=pfie&vol=2&issue=3&year=2004&article=5_Giroux_PFIE_2_3-4_web&id=170.140.58.157)</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">By linking education to the project of an ......</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline ! important; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-color: yellow;">of global protests and collective resistance.</span>**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Also, they aren’t getting away with a changed “Ontology” impact.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The community is forgetful- they won’t care about this round. Engaging in public forum debates and discussions outside of competitive debate for individual ethos and preserving the community for political activism solves back all their offense.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Atchison and Panetta, 09</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, <span style="color: black;">“Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__In addition to the structural<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">..... wins and losses of their own debaters</span></span>__</span>
===Normativity K=== 

<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A.) Links </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There is no reason to vote affirmative: They can’t articulate any link between their prescriptions and practical worldly effects. </span>**

**Schlag 90**
[Professor of Law @ U of Colorado (Pierre Stanford Law Review p. lexis] 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In fact, normative legal thought is so much in a hurry that it will tell you what to do even though there is not the slightest chance that you might actually be in a position to do it. For instance, when was the last time you were in a position to put the difference principle n31 into effect, or to restructure [*179] the doctrinal corpus of the first amendment? "In the future, we should. . . ." When was the last time you were in a position to rule whether judges should become pragmatists, efficiency purveyors, civic republicans, or Hercules surrogates? </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Normative legal thought doesn't seem overly concerned with such worldly questions about the character and the effectiveness of its own discourse. It just goes along and proposes, recommends, prescribes, solves, and resolves. Yet despite its obvious desire to have worldly effects, worldly consequences, normative legal thought remains seemingly unconcerned that for all practical purposes, its only consumers are legal academics and perhaps a few law students -- persons who are virtually never in a position to put any of its wonderful normative advice into effect. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, Their conception of communication is normative – The affirmative views language as a neutral conduit for thought, which neglects that much of language is ineffective </span>**

**Schlag 90**
[Professor of Law @ U of Colorado (Pierre Stanford Law Review p. lexis] 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One answer is precisely that normative legal thought conceives its own linguistic situation in just this unproblematic manner: "getting its message across." Normative legal thought establishes and sees itself as transmitting important "substance" through already existing, relatively unobstructed channels of legal communication. This conception of language as an empty, neutral, already extant conduit for thought is itself linguistically embedded in our metaphorical understanding of language. See Michael J. Reddy, The Conduit Metaphor -- A Case of Frame Conflict in Our Language about Language, in METAPHOR AND THOUGHT 284 (A. Ortony ed. 1979). Unfortunately, as Reddy demonstrates, this conception greatly overestimates the possibility of successful communication and greatly underestimates the need for active intervention on the part of the participants in constructing communication. </span>



<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">
[[#_Toc87351449]]</span>
**B.) Impacts**
**1. No Harms**
**Their description of the status quo presupposes a rational, autonomous subject that not only describes the bureaucracy, but also our agency to act as empowered Cartesian egos- in reality, these subject positions do not exist**

**Schlag 91**
[Professor of Law @ U of Colorado (Pierre Stanford Law Review p. lexis] 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For these legal thinkers, it will seem especially urgent to ask once again: What should be done? How should we live? What should the law be? These are the hard questions. These are the momentous questions. [*805] And they are the wrong ones. They are wrong because it is these very normative questions that reprieve legal thinkers from recognizing the extent to which the cherished "ideals" of legal academic thought are implicated in the reproduction and maintenance of precisely those ugly "realities" of legal practice the academy so routinely condemns. It is these normative questions that allow legal thinkers to shield themselves from the recognition that their work product consists largely of the reproduction of rhetorical structures by which human beings can be coerced into achieving ends of dubious social origin and implication. It is these very normative questions that allow legal academics to continue to address (rather lamely) bureaucratic power structures as if they were rational, morally competent, individual humanist subjects. It is these very normative questions that allow legal thinkers to assume blithely that -- in a world ruled by HMOs, personnel policies, standard operating procedures, performance requirements, standard work incentives, and productivity monitoring -- they somehow have escaped the bureaucratic power games. It is these normative questions that enable them to represent themselves as whole and intact, as self-directing individual liberal humanist subjects at once rational, morally competent, and in control of their own situations, the captain of their own ships, the Hercules of their own empires, the author of their own texts. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It isn't so. n5 And if it isn't so, it would seem advisable to make some adjustments in the agenda and practice of legal thought. That is what I will be trying to do here. Much of what follows will no doubt seem threatening or nihilistic to many readers. In part that is because this article puts in question the very coherence, meaningfulness, and integrity of the kinds of normative disputes and discussion that almost all of us in the legal academy practice. </span>



<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">
[[#_Toc87351450]]</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Turns Case- their rhetorical performance shields us for responsibility for our own contributions to material pain and suffering- </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Delgado 91 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Richard, Colorado Law Professor, 139 PA. L. Rev. 933, April] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But what is the cash value of all this priest-talk in the law reviews, in the classrooms of at least the "better" schools, and in the opinions of at least some judges? Are normativos better than other people? Are we better off for engaging in normative talk, either as speakers or listeners? Pierre Schlag, for example, has described normativity as a zero -- as a vacuous, self-referential system of talk, all [*954] form and no substance, meaning nothing, and about itself. n82 This description may be too generous. Normativity may be more than a harmless tic prevalent only in certain circles. 1. Permission to Ignore Suffering The history of organized religion shows that intense immersion in at least certain types of normative system is no guarantee against cruelty, intolerance or superstition. n83 In modern times, social scientists have tried to find a correlation between religious belief and altruistic behavior. In most studies, the correlation is nonexistent or negative. In one study, seminary students were observed as they walked past a well-dressed man lying moaning on the sidewalk. n84 Most ignored the man, even though they had just heard a sermon about the Good Samaritan. The proportion who stopped to offer aid was lower than that of passersby in general. The researchers, commenting on this and other studies of religion and helping behavior, hypothesized that religious people feel less need to act because of a sense that they are "chosen" people. n85 I believe this anesthetizing effect extends beyond religion. We confront a starving beggar and immediately translate the concrete duty we feel into a normative (i.e., abstract) question. And once we see the beggar's demand in general, systemic terms, it is easy for us to pass him by without rendering aid. n86 Someone else, perhaps society (with my tax dollars), will take care of that problem. Normativity thus enables us to ignore and smooth over the rough edges of our world, to tune out or redefine what would otherwise make a claim on us. In the legal system, the clearest [*955] examples of this are found in cases where the Supreme Court has been faced with subsistence claims. </span>



<span style="display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">
[[#_Toc87351451]]</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">3. External Impact: The aff’s rhetorical performance is premised on the idea of rational subject with free will who can act upon the law and bureaucratic control- this is the basis for their solvency claims and the claim you should vote for them – this normative model of subjectivity in fact is bureaucratic control – its essential meaning is the infliction of pain and death </span>**

**Schlag 90**
[Professor of Law @ U of Colorado (Pierre Stanford Law Review p. lexis] 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">All of this can seem very funny. That's because it is very funny. It is also deadly serious. It is deadly serious, because all this normative legal thought, as Robert Cover explained, takes place in a field of pain and death. n56 And in a very real sense Cover was right. Yet as it takes place, normative legal thought is playing language games -- utterly oblivious to the character of the language games it plays, and thus, utterly uninterested in considering its own rhetorical and political contributions (or lack thereof) to the field of pain and death. To be sure, normative legal thinkers are often genuinely concerned with reducing the pain and the death. However, the problem is not what normative legal thinkers do with normative legal thought, but what normative legal thought does with normative legal thinkers. What is missing in normative legal thought is any serious questioning, let alone tracing, of the relations that the practice, the rhetoric, the routine of normative legal thought have (or do not have) to the field of pain and death. And there is a reason for that: Normative legal thought misunderstands its own situation. Typically, normative legal thought understands itself to be outside the field of pain and death and in charge of organizing and policing that field. It is as if the action of normative legal thought could be separated from the background field of pain and death. This theatrical distinction is what allows normative legal thought its own self-important, self-righteous, self-image -- its congratulatory sense of its own accomplishments and effectiveness. All this self-congratulation works very nicely so long as normative legal [*188] thought continues to imagine itself as outside the field of pain and death and as having effects within that field. n57 Yet it is doubtful this image can be maintained. It is not so much the case that normative legal thought has effects on the field of pain and death -- at least not in the direct, originary way it imagines. Rather, it is more the case that normative legal thought is the pattern, is the operation of the bureaucratic distribution and the institutional allocation of the pain and the death. n58 And apart from the leftover ego-centered rationalist rhetoric of the eighteenth century (and our routine), there is nothing at this point to suggest that we, as legal thinkers, are in control of normative legal thought. The problem for us, as legal thinkers, is that the normative appeal of normative legal thought systematically turns us away from recognizing that normative legal thought is grounded on an utterly unbelievable re-presentation of the field it claims to describe and regulate. The problem for us is that normative legal thought, rather than assisting in the understanding of present political and moral situations, stands in the way. It systematically reinscribes its own aesthetic -- its own fantastic understanding of the political and moral scene. n59Until normative legal thought begins to deal with its own paradoxical postmodern rhetorical situation, it will remain something of an irresponsible enterprise. In its rhetorical structure, it will continue to populate the legal academic world with individual humanist subjects who think themselves empowered Cartesian egos, but who are largely the manipulated constructions of bureaucratic practices -- academic and otherwise. </span>



==Case== 
===Westlake Neo- Con Hackery 1NC F/L=== 
(Util, realism, security, heg good/inevitable)


[[#_Toc276248948]][[#_Toc276248328]][[#_Toc276248221]][[#_Toc276225930]][[#_Toc276219188]][[#_Toc276219158]]
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**1.** **Moral tunnel vision is complicit with evil** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Isaac 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Political Science, Indiana </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">(Jeffrey, “Ends, Means and Politics,” Dissent 49.2, p 35-6, ebsco, AG) </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the </span>purity of<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> one's </span>intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that </span>in a world of real violence<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> and injustice, </span>moral purity is<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of </span>complicity in injustice<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. This is why, from the standpoint of politics--as opposed to religion--pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that </span>politics is<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> as much </span>about unintended consequences<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> as it is about intentions; </span>it is the effects<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> of action, </span>rather than<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> the </span>motives of action, that is <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">most </span>significant<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. Just as the alignment with "good" may engender impotence, it is </span>often the pursuit of "good<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">" that </span>generates evil. This is the lesson of communism<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> in the twentieth century: </span>it is not enough that<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> one's </span>goals be sincere<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness. </span></span>

**2. Util is the only real framework for policymaking. Even deontology requires making certain decisions that WILL hurt someone – the best framework is to achieve the most moral result for the most people – sacrificing along the way is inevitable and can still be a moral action**
David **Cummiskey**, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Bates College and a PhD from UM, 19**96**, Kantian Conseuquentialism, Pg. 158-159. 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, despite Kant’s deontological intuitions about particular moral cases, his basic normative principle is best interpreted as having a fundamentally consequentialist structure.</span> In order to justify agent-centered constraints, one needs a non-value-based rationale. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many Kantians attempt to provide such a rationale by appealing to the Kantian principle of treating persons as ends. The Kantians’ strategy is clear: Treating persons as ends involves respecting persons, and respecting persons involves recognizing agent-centered constraints on action. We have seen, however, that this strategy is problematic.</span> The Kantian principle itself generates a duty to advance a moral goal: The duty to strive as much as one can to promote the flourishing of rational beings, and to make others’ ends one’s own, is the very essence of treating humanity as an end. Morality thus constrains and shapes the pursuit of individual well-being or happiness. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have seen, however, that Kant’s</span> moral theory does not provide a rationale for basic agent-centered constraints that limit what we can do in the pursuit of this complex moral goal. The imperative to respect persons thus does indeed generate a consequentialist normative theory, rather than the desired deontological alternative. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It certainly seems that a Kantian ought to be a normative consequentialist</span>. Conscientious <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kantian</span> agents have a basic duty to strive, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as much as possible</span>, to promote the freedom and happiness of all rational beings. In the pursuit of this moral goal, it may be necessary for the interests of some to give way for the sake of others. If we are sacrificed, we are not treated simply as a means to another’s goal; on the contrary, our sacrifice is required by a principle we endorse. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our non-moral interests and inclinations may cause us to feel reluctant, but since</span> our sacrifice furthers a moral goal that we endorse and that we are required to pursue, our sacrifice does not violate our moral autonomy or our rights. 


[[#_Toc276248949]][[#_Toc276248329]][[#_Toc276248222]][[#_Toc276225931]][[#_Toc276219189]][[#_Toc276219159]][[#_Toc245061570]]
**3.** **Util inevitable in determining which moral rules to follow**
**Ratner 84**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Law, USC </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">(Leonard, 12 Hofstra L. Rev. 723, AG) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">All systems of morality<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, however transcendental, </span>rest<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> ultimately </span>on utilitarian self interest<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> (i.e., on personal need/want fulfillment), </span>because those who fashion such systems<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, like those who accept or reject them, </span>cannot escape their own humanness<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. The physically controllable acts of each individual 221 are the choice of that individual, though all of the consequences may not be foreseen or desired. 222 </span>Behavior choices are<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> necessarily </span>determined by the experience<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, feelings, habits, and attitudes; the concerns </span>and beliefs<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">; the needs and wants -- in short, by the ultimate self interest -- </span>of the individual.<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> 223 </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**4. Deontology framework assumes individuals** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Harries 94 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow, Lowy Institute for International Policy, Senior Fellow, Centre for Independent Studies</span> <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">(Owen, Power and civilization, http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-15353301.html, AG) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">Performance is the test. Asked directly by a Western interviewer, "In principle, do you believe in one standard of human rights and free expression?", Lee immediately answers, "Look, it is not a matter of principle but of practice." This might appear to represent a simple and rather crude pragmatism. But in its context it might also be interpreted as an appreciation of the fundamental point made by Max Weber that, </span>in politics<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, it is "</span>the ethic of responsibility" rather than<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> "the ethic of </span>absolute ends<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">" that </span>is appropriate. While an individual is free to treat<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> human </span>rights as absolute<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, to be observed whatever the cost, </span>governments must always weigh consequences and<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> the </span>competing claims<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> of other ends. So </span>once they enter<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> the realm of </span>politics<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, human </span>rights have to take their place in a hierarchy of interests<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">including such basic things as national security and the promotion of prosperity. Their place in that hierarchy will vary with circumstances, but no responsible government will ever be able to put them always at the top and treat them as inviolable and over-riding. The cost of implementing and promoting them will always have to be considered. </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**5. Extinction justifies sacrificing the lesser number** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Kateb 92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Prof Politics, Princeton (George, The Inner Ocean, p 12) </span></span>
<span style="margin-right: .2in; tab-stops: .25in;">The state<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> (or some other agent) </span>may kill some<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> (or allow them to be killed), </span>if the<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> only </span>alternative is letting every-one die<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">. It is</span> the right to life <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">which most prominently </span>figures in<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> thinking about </span>desperate situations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> I cannot see any resolution but to heed the precept that "numbers count." Just as one may prefer saving one's own life to saving that of another when both cannot be saved, so a third parry—let us say, </span>the state<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">—can (perhaps </span>must<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">) choose to</span> save the greater number<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> of lives and at the cost of the lesser number, when there is otherwise no hope for either group.</span></span>

**6. Upholding life is the ultimate moral standard.**
**Uyl and Rasmussen,** profs. of philosophy at Bellarmine College and St. John’s University, 19**81** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Douglas Den and Douglas, “Reading Nozick”, p. 244) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Rand has spoken of the ultimate end as the standard by which all other ends are evaluated. When the ends to be evaluated are chosen ones the ultimate end is the standard for moral evaluation.</span> Life as the sort of thing a living entity is, then, is the ultimate standard of value; and since only human beings are capable of choosing their ends, it is the life as a human being-man's life qua man-that is the standard for moral evaluation.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>



[[#_Toc276248950]][[#_Toc276248330]][[#_Toc276248223]][[#_Toc276225932]][[#_Toc276219190]][[#_Toc276219160]][[#_Toc245061571]]
**7. Double bind – either no human lives are equally valuable, which forces them to prove why the lives they save are worth it, or all human life is equally valuable, which necessitates utilitarianism.**
**Harsanyi,** prof. of economics at UC Berkeley, 19**82** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(John, “Utilitarianism and Beyond”, p. 26-7)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="UnunderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Some further notes on this suggestion will be in place here. First, </span></span>it is sometimes alleged that justice has to be at odds with utility. But if we ask how we are to be just between the competing interests of different people, it seems hard to give any other answer than it is by giving equal weight, impartially to the interests of everybody. And this is precisely what yields the utility principle. It does not necessarily yield equality in the resulting distribution. There are certainly very good utilitarian reasons for seeking equality in distribution too; but justice is something distinct. The utilitarian is sometimes said to be indifferent between equal and unequal distributions provided that total utility is equal. <span class="UnunderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is so; but it conceals two important utilitarian grounds for a fairly high degree of actual goods (tempered, of course, as in most systems including Rawls’s by various advantages that are secured by moderate inequalities). The second is that inequalities tend to produce, at any rate in educated societies, envy hatred and malice whose disutility needs no emphasizing. I am convinced that when these two factors are taken into account, utilitarians have no feed to fear the accusation that they could favor extreme inequalities of distribution in actual modern societies. Fantastic hypothetical cases can no doubt be invented in which they would have to favor them; but as, as we shall see, this is an illegitimate form of argument</span></span>.</span>


[[#_Toc276248975]][[#_Toc276248355]][[#_Toc276248248]][[#_Toc276225957]]

1.) Terrorists have religious motivations that make discourse and compromise meaningless. The only way to win the war we are in is to kill them before they kill us.
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peters 04</span></span>- (Ralph, Retired Army Officer, “In Praise of Attrition,” Parameters, Summer)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Trust me. We don’t need discourses. We need plain talk, honest answers, and the will to close with the enemy and kill him. And to keep on killing him until it is unmistakably clear to the entire world who won. When military officers start speaking in academic gobbledygook, it means they have nothing to contribute to the effectiveness of our forces. They badly need an assignment to Fallujah. Consider our enemies in the War on Terror. Men who believe, literally, that they are on a mission from God to destroy your civilization and who regard death as a promotion are not impressed by elegant maneuvers. You </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">must find them, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no matter how long it takes</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">, then kill them</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If they surrender, you must accord them their rights under the laws of war and international conventions. But, as we have learned so painfully from all the mindless, left-wing nonsense spouted about the prisoners at Guantanamo, you are much better off killing them before they have a chance to surrender. We have heard no en</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">d of blather about network-centric warfare, to the great profit of defense contractors. If you want to see a superb—and cheap—example of “net-war,” look at al Qaeda. The mere possession of technology does not ensure that it will be used effectively. And effectiveness is what matters. It isn’t a question of whether or not we want to fight a war of attrition against religion-fueled terrorists. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">We’re in a war of attrition with them. We have no realistic choice. Indeed, our enemies are, in some respects, better suited to both global and local wars of maneuver than we are.</span></span> They have a world in which to hide, and the world is full of targets for them. They do not heed laws or boundaries. They make and observe no treaties. They do not expect the approval of the United Nations Security Council. They do not face election cycles. And their weapons are largely provided by our own societies. We have the technical capabilities to deploy globally, but, for now, we are forced to watch as Pakistani forces fumble efforts to surround and destroy concentrations of terrorists; we cannot enter any country (except, temporarily, Iraq) without the permission of its <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">government. We have many tools—military, diplomatic, economic, cultural, law enforcement, and so on—but we have less freedom of maneuver than our enemies. But we do have superior killing power, once our enemies have been located. Ultimately, the key advantage of a superpower is superpower. Faced with implacable enemies who would kill every man, woman, and child in our country and call the killing good (the ultimate war of attrition), we must be willing to use that power wisely, but remorselessly. W</span></span>e are, militarily and nationally, in a transition phase. Even after 9/11, we do not fully appreciate the cruelty and determination of our enemies. We will learn our lesson, painfully, because the terrorists will not quit. The only solution is to kill them and keep on killing them: a war of attrition. But a war of attrition fought on our terms, not theirs. Of course, we shall hear no end of fatuous arguments to the effect that we can’t kill our way out of the problem. Well, until a better methodology is discovered, killing every terrorist we can find is a good interim solution. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The truth is that even if you can’t kill yourself out of the problem, you can make the problem a great deal smaller by effective targeting. And we shall hear that killing terrorists only creates more terrorists. This is sophomoric nonsense. The surest way to swell the ranks of terror is to follow the approach we did in the decade before 9/11 and do nothing of substance. Success breeds success. Everybody loves a winner. </span></span>The clichés exist because they’re true. Al Qaeda and related terrorist groups metastasized because they were viewed in the Muslim world as standing up to the West successfully and handing the Great Satan America embarrassing defeats with impunity. Some fanatics will flock to the standard of terror, no matter what we do. But it’s far easier for Islamic societies to purge themselves of terrorists if the terrorists are on the losing end of the global struggle than if they’re allowed to become triumphant heroes to every jobless, unstable teenager in the Middle East and beyond. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Far worse than fighting such a war of attrition aggressively is to pretend you’re not in one while your enemy keeps on killing you. Even the occupation of Iraq is a war of attrition. We’re doing remarkably well, given the restrictions under which our forces operate</span></span>. But no grand maneuvers, no gestures of humanity, no offers of conciliation, and no compromises will persuade the terrorists to halt their efforts to disrupt the development of a democratic, rule-of-law Iraq</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. On the contrary, anything less than relentless pursuit, with both preemptive and retaliatory action, only encourages the terrorists and remaining Baathist gangsters.</span> </span></span>

2. Terrorists are inherently evil—the most moral thing to do is to prevent civilians from dying 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’SULLIVAN 2001</span></span> (John, Editor-in-chief of United Press International, National Review Online, Sept 25, http://www.nationalreview.com/jos/josprint092501.html)

. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nor is this a hypothetical criticism. Much reporting of the conflicts in Northern Ireland, Colombia, and the Basque country has blurred exactly that distinction. Finally,</span> let us look at Mr. Jukes's underlying justification that "one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." By a nice coincidence this argument was justly characterized on Saturday in Canada's National Post as "an adolescent sophistry" by the Canadian poet and journalist, George Jonas. Simply put,</span> the sophistry consists of confusing a terrorist's cause with his methods. A terrorist is a man who murders indiscriminately, distinguishing neither between innocent and guilty nor between soldier and civilian. He may employ terrorism — planting bombs in restaurants, or hijacking planes and aiming them at office towers-in a bad cause or in a good one. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">He may be a Nazi terrorist, or an anti-Nazi terrorist, a Communist or an anti-Communist, pro-Palestinian or pro-Israel. We may want to defeat his political cause or see it triumph. </span>For his methods, however, the terrorist is always to be condemned. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Indeed, to describe him objectively is to condemn him — even if his cause is genuinely a fight for freedom with which we sympathize. Therein lies Mr. Jukes's trial and temptation. </span>Those who sympathize with the terrorist's cause <span style="font-size: 6pt;">— whether they are Islamic fundamentalists seeking America's withdrawal from Saudi Arabia, or Spanish citizens in the Basque country who want an independent Basque state, or Irish Americans seeking Britain's withdrawal from Northern Ireland</span> — are tempted to overlook or deny his methods. They do not want to acknowledge that someone is killing innocent people in the name of a cause they passionately support. They wish to banish such an uncomfortable truth from their minds. So they do not like to see him accurately described as a terrorist. It makes them feel guilty about the support and sympathy they give him; it may even make them <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">reconsider that support</span>.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When Reuters decided not to call the perpetrators of the World Trade Center attack "terrorists," it took a step towards making people feel less guilty about aiding or sympathizing with such evil. It was a small step, but an unnecessary one. And it should be retraced. </span>



[[#_Toc276248976]][[#_Toc276248356]][[#_Toc276248249]][[#_Toc276225958]]
3.) Military violence is the only way to solve 
**EPSTEIN 2005** (Alex, Junior Fellow at the Ayn Rand Institute, July 25, “Fight the Root of Terrorism with Bombs not Bread,” http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=11243&news_iv_ctrl=1021)

Eliminating the root of terrorism is indeed a valid goal--but properly targeted military action, <span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">not welfare handouts, is the means of doing so. Terrorism is not caused by poverty. The terrorists of September 11 did not attack America in order to make the Middle East richer. To the contrary, their stated goal was to repel any penetration of the prosperous culture of the industrialized "infidels" into their world. The wealthy Osama bin Laden was not using his millions to build electric power plants or irrigation canals. If he and his terrorist minions wanted prosperity, they would seek to emulate the United States--not to destroy it. More fundamental, poverty as such cannot determine anyone's code of morality. It is the ideas that individuals choose to adopt which make them pursue certain goals and values. A desire to destroy wealth and to slaughter innocent, productive human beings cannot be explained by a lack of money or a poor quality of life--only by anti-wealth, anti-life ideas. These terrorists are motivated by the ideology of Islamic Fundamentalism. This other-worldly, authoritarian doctrine views America's freedom, prosperity, and pursuit of worldly pleasures as the height of depravity. Its adherents resent America's success, along with the appeal its culture has to many Middle Eastern youths. To the fundamentalists, Americans are "infidels" who should be killed. As a former Taliban official said, "The Americans are fighting so they can live and enjoy the material things in life. But we are fighting so we can die in the cause of God."</span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">The terrorists hate us because of their ideology-</span></span>-a fact that filling up the coffers of Third World governments will do nothing to change. What then, can our government do? It cannot directly eradicate the deepest, philosophical roots of terrorism; but by using military force, it can eliminate the only "root cause" relevant in a political context: state sponsorship of terrorism. 


[[#_Toc276248980]][[#_Toc276248360]][[#_Toc276248253]]
1.) Turn- Fear of nuclear war is key to preventing it.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Futterman 94</span></span> (J. A. H., Physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, “Meditations on the Bomb,” http://www.dogchurch.org/scriptorium/nuke.html)
But the inhibitory effect of reliable <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nuclear weapons goes deeper than</span></span> Shirer's <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">deterrence</span></span> of adventurer-conquerors. It changes the way we think individually and culturally, preparing us for a future we cannot now imagine. Jungian psychiatrist Anthony J. Stevens states, [15] "History would indicate that people cannot rise above their narrow sectarian concerns without some overwhelming paroxysm. It took the War of Independence and the Civil War to forge the United States, World War I to create the League of Nations, World War II to create the United Nations Organization and the European Economic Community. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Only catastrophe</span></span>, it seems, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">forces people to take the wider view</span></span>. Or what about fear? <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Can the horror which we all experience when we contemplate the possibility of nuclear extinction mobilize</span></span> in <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">us</span></span> sufficient libidinal energy to <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">resist the archetypes of war?</span></span> Certainly, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the moment we become blasé about the possibility of holocaust we are lost. As long as horror of nuclear exchange remains uppermost we can recognize that nothing is worth it. War becomes the impossible option. Perhaps horror, the experience of horror, the consciousness of horror, is our only hope. Perhaps horror alone will enable us to overcome the otherwise invincible attraction of war.</span></span>" Thus I also continue engaging in nuclear weapons work to help fire that world-historical warning shot I mentioned above, namely, that as our beneficial technologies become more powerful, so will our weapons technologies, unless genuine peace precludes it. We must build a future more peaceful than our past, if we are to have a future at all, with or without nuclear weapons — a fact we had better learn before worse things than nuclear weapons are invented. If you're a philosopher, this means that I regard the nature of humankind as mutable rather than fixed, but that I think most people welcome change in their personalities and cultures with all the enthusiasm that they welcome death — thus, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the fear of nuclear annihilation of ourselves and all our values may be what we require in order to become peaceful enough to survive our future technological breakthroughs. </span></span>In other words, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">when the peace movement tells the world that we need to treat each other more kindly</span></span>, I and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">my colleagues stand behind </span></span>it (like Malcolm X stood behind Martin Luther King, Jr.) saying, "<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Or else</span></span>." We provide the peace movement with a needed sense of urgency that it might otherwise lack.


2.) Their representations of embracing the inevitability of threats locks us into pacifist discourse of inaction that allows for people like Hitler and nuclear weapons to arise
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Futterman 94</span></span> (J. A. H., Physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, “Meditations on the Bomb,” http://www.dogchurch.org/scriptorium/nuke.html)AB 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Still, it is worth noting that neither of the above encounters ended in violence against the aggressor. The aggressor was merely deterred from further aggression by a willingness to fight,</span></span> on the part of my friends or myself. In both cases, the bully was shown that, "If you act crazy (violently), we/I will match your craziness." In both cases, that was enough. Such a reaction is neither passive nor aggressive — it is assertive. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dogchurch.org/scriptorium/nuke.html#3|[3]]]</span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Of course, if deterrence is not enough, if your opponent is that crazy, what do you do? Running away may work for individuals, but not for nations, so I will neglect that option</span></span>. Negotiation is also unworkable, because you can't reason with bullies. They exhibit a kind of willful mindlessness, a demonic will to unconsciousness. They don't negotiate back, they merely use your forbearance to buy time and opportunity to get at you, or to get around you — like Hitler did, while Chamberlain declared, "peace in our time." <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">You assert your position, and set some limits. And if they exceed your limits, you use force. But is it moral to use force? Those of us who might contemplate calling the police in order to stop a murder must believe that occasionally it is. Further, I maintain that sometimes it may be immoral to do anything else. Remember that Hitler could have been stopped easily by a show of force when he threatened to annex the Sudetenland.</span></span> That force was not brought to bear in a timely manner is due largely to the pacifist sentiment in Europe and America at the time. Instead of engaging in a minor military expedition which would have forced Hitler to back down, to lose face, and ultimately to lose political power, the world passively sold out Czechoslovakia to him, paving the way for a much more prolonged and bloody conflict later — a conflict that resulted in the development of the first atomic bombs<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. In other words, I think a reflexive pacifism is no more entitled to a presumption of moral innocence than nuclear weapons work, and that pacifism applied in the wrong way at the wrong time contributed to the development of the nuclear weapons that pacifists now find so abhorrent. In short, pacifism can sometimes help to make wars bigger and worse than they have to be.</span></span>



[[#_Toc276248981]][[#_Toc276248361]][[#_Toc276248254]]

3.) Threats real—default to expert consensus
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Knudsen</span></span> **1**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">– PoliSci Professor at Sodertorn (Olav, Post-Copenhagen Security Studies, Security Dialogue 32:3) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Moreover, I have a problem with the underlying implication that it is unimportant whether states 'really' face dangers from other states or groups. In the Copenhagen school, threats are seen as coming mainly from the actors' own fears, or from what happens when the fears of individuals turn into paranoid political action. In my view, this emphasis on the subjective is a misleading conception of threat, in that it discounts an independent existence for what- ever is perceived as a threat. Granted, political life is often marked by misperceptions, mistakes, pure imaginations, ghosts, or mirages, but such phenomena do not occur simultaneously to large numbers of politicians, and hardly most of the time. During the Cold War, threats - in the sense of plausible possibilities of danger - referred to 'real' phenomena, and they refer to 'real' phenomena now. The objects referred to are often not the same, but that is a different matter. Threats have to be dealt with both ín terms of perceptions and in terms of the phenomena which are perceived to be threatening. The point of Waever’s concept of security is not the potential existence of danger somewhere but the use of the word itself by political elites. In his 1997 PhD dissertation, he writes, ’One can View “security” as that which is in language theory called a speech act: it is not interesting as a sign referring to something more real - it is the utterance itself that is the act.’24 The deliberate disregard of objective factors is even more explicitly stated in Buzan & WaeVer’s joint article of the same year.” As a consequence, the phenomenon of threat is reduced to a matter of pure domestic politics.” It seems to me that the security dilemma, as a central notion in security studies, then loses its foundation. Yet I see that Waever himself has no compunction about referring to the security dilemma in a recent article." This discounting of the objective aspect of threats shifts security studies to insignificant concerns. What has long made 'threats' and ’threat perceptions’ important phenomena in the study of IR is the implication that urgent action may be required. Urgency, of course, is where Waever first began his argument in favor of an alternative security conception, because a convincing sense of urgency has been the chief culprit behind the abuse of 'security' and the consequent ’politics of panic', as Waever aptly calls it.” Now, here - in the case of urgency - another baby is thrown out with the Waeverian bathwater. When real situations of urgency arise, those situations are challenges to democracy; they are actually at the core of the problematic arising with the process of making security policy in parliamentary democracy. But in Waever’s world, threats are merely more or less persuasive, and the claim of urgency is just another argument. I hold that instead of 'abolishing' threatening phenomena ’out there’ by reconceptualizing them, as Waever does, we should continue paying attention to them, because situations with a credible claim to urgency will keep coming back and then we need to know more about how they work in the interrelations of groups and states <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(such as civil wars, for instance), not least to find adequate democratic procedures for dealing with them. </span></span></span>

4. Don’t let them say root cause- prefer our specific conceptualization of threats 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurki 2007</span>** (Milja, Lecturer, Department of Int’l Politics, University of Wales, Aberystwyth) “Critical realism and causal analysis in international relations”, //Millennium: Journal of International Studies//, 34(5), accessed via Sage Journals Online)

While in some natural sciences laboratory experiments can be conducted to isolate individual causal forces, this is not what defines science in natural sciences: this is an unrealistic and unnecessary expectation in the social sciences, with dynamic ontological objects<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. It is true that parsimonious accounts can be helpful in some contexts and that all approaches must engage in some simplification. Yet it does not mean that parsimony should be prioritised: oversimplification entails important weaknesses in social explanations</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Simplified analyses of complex social processes do not necessarily provide the most interesting, nor sufficiently nuanced, causal explanations to facilitate adequate understanding of social issues</span></span>. As critics have pointed out it is not insignificant theoretically or politically that positivist democratic peace theory, for example, has tended to lack appreciation of the complex historical conditioning of democratic politics within states and actions of democratic states within global economic, political and cultural relations.41


[[#_Toc276248982]][[#_Toc276248362]][[#_Toc276248255]]
5. Good-Evil Dichotomies inev- Ego in resources 

<span class="cite">Thayer 2004</span> – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [//Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict//, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 77-78 //adi]//


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Humans make in-group/out-group distinctions for three reasons. First, </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">humans seek resources</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—food, water, and shelter—to care for themselves and relatives, and they seek mates to reproduce their genotype; in sum, they are egoistic</span></span> for the reasons advanced by Darwin, William Hamilton, and other evolutionary theorists, as I described in chapter 1 and in the discussion above. They are unlikely to assist those who are not related, but may do so occasionally, expecting reciprocal behavior. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Humans behave in these ways because resources were scarce in the late-Pliocene, Pleistocene, and Holoccne environments in which we evolved. In that environment, it is easy to understand why </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">humans would prefer more resources to fewer</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">: more strength is preferable to less strength, more wealth to less wealth, domination to being dominated.</span></span> Most people do indeed prefer more resources to fewer; the rich want even more wealth, and seldom say they are too wealthy. Rather, they seem to worry about protecting their wealth from those who may take it from them, such as revolutionaries or the government. In essence, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in prehistoric times when there was too little to go around, humans discriminated between self and others, family and others, tribe and others, in-groups and out-groups. This behavior remains today. We humans are likely to perceive out-groups as </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">threats to our resources</span></span>, the resources we need to maintain ourselves and our families and extended in-groups such as the tribe or state.//</span>

//6. Can’t solve- elites//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**Mearsheimer 2001**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Tragedy of Great Power Politics” </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because </span>Americans dislike realpolitik, public discourse about foreign policy in the United States is usually couched in the language of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> liberalism. Hence the pronouncements of the policy elites are heavily flavored with </span>optimism and moralism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. American academics are especially good at promoting liberal thinking in the marketplace of idea. </span>Behind closed doors, however, the elites who make national security policy speak mostly the language of power not that of principle and the United States acts in the international system according to the dictates of realist logic<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In essence, a discernible gap separates public rhetoric from the actual conduct of American foreign policy </span>//

//Realism is inevitable- policymaking and language//
//Stefano <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science and IR at the Central European University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span></span> (“Conclusion: the fragmentation of realism,"// Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy: The Continuing Story of a Death Foretold//, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415144027, p. 212)//

//<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Therefore, in a third step, this chapter also claims that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is impossible just to heap realism onto the dustbin of history and start anew. This is a non-option</span></span>. Although realism as a strictly causal theory has been a disappointment, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">various realist assumptions are well alive in the minds of many practitioners and observers of international affairs</span></span>. Although it does not correspond to a theory which helps us to understand a real world with objective laws, it is a world-view which suggests thoughts about it, and which permeates our daily language for making sense of it. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Realism has been a rich</span></span>, albeit very contestable, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reservoir of lessons of the past, of metaphors and historical analogies, which</span></span>, in the hands of its most gifted representatives, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">have been proposed, at times imposed, and reproduced as guides to a common understanding of international affairs. Realism is alive in the collective memory and self-understanding of our</span></span> (i.e. Western) <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">foreign policy elite and public, whether educated or not. Hence, we cannot but deal with it</span></span>. For this reason, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">forgetting realism is also questionable</span></span>. Of course, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">academic observers should not bow to the whims of daily politics. But staying at distance, or being critical, does not mean that they should lose the capacity to understand the languages of those who make significant decisions, not only in government, but also in firms, NGOs, and other institutions. To the contrary, this understanding, as increasingly varied as it may be, is a prerequisite for their very profession. More particularly, it is a prerequisite for opposing the more irresponsible claims made in the name, although not always necessarily in the spirit, of realism</span></span>. </span>//



//**Security rhetoric key to heg**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yaseen </span>**Noorani**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Assistant Professor in Near Eastern Studies at the University of Arizona) </span>**2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "The Rhetoric of Security" CR: The New Centennial Review 5.1 (2005) 13-41 Muse </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><</span>The rhetoric of security<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then, </span>provides the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> moral </span>framework for U.S.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> political </span>hegemony through its grounding in the idea of national agency and in the absolute opposition between the state of civility and the state of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [End Page 371 war. Designating the United States as the embodiment of the world order's underlying principle and the guarantor of the world order's existence, </span>rhetoric places both the United States and terrorism outside the normative relations that should inhere within the world order as a whole.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The United States is the supreme agent of the world's war against war; other nations must simply choose &. </span>As long as war threatens to dissolve the peaceful order of nations, these nations must submit to the politics of "the one, instead of the many." They must accept the united States -as "something godlike<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," in that in questions of its own security-which are questions of the world's security-they can have no authority to influence or oppose its actions. These questions can be decided by the United States alone. Other nations must, for the foreseeable future, suspend their agency when it comes to their existence. Therefore, </span>rhetoric of securitv allows the United States to totalize world politics within itself<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a manner that extends from the relations among states down to the inner moral struggle experienced bv every human being </span>//



//<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sustained unipolar hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict. </span></span>//
//<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kagan 2007 </span></span>[Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>]//

//Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East</span></span>; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and </span></span>now, increasingly, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Central Asia.</span></span> This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus.</span></span> The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as “No. 1” and are equally loath to relinquish it. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image.</span></span> They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe.//
//The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Were the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past</span></span>: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness.</span></span> One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.</span></span>//
//<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is </span></span>easy but also <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dangerous to underestimate the role the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability.</span></span> For instance, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the</span> <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">U</span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is the dominant naval power everywhere</span></span>, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even when the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance</span></span> at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Conflict</span></span> between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible.</span></span>//
//Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe ’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war.//
//People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War II</span></span>, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. </span></span>//

//Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> it is doubtful that it would suit</span></span> the tastes of <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">enlightenment liberals in the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> and Europe. </span></span>//
//The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan. War </span></span>could erupt <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">between Russia and Georgia</span></span>, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">India and Pakistan</span></span> remains possible, as does conflict between <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Iran and Israel </span></span>or other Middle Eastern states. These,<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> too, could draw in other great powers, including the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates.</span>//
//<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Such conflicts</span></span> may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are more likely to erupt if the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan.</span></span>//
//In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">withdrew from Europe</span></span> — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this could</span></span> in time <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its</span></span> near <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">neighbors, which could in turn draw the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">back in under unfavorable circumstances. </span></span>//
//<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. </span></span>Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region</span></span>, both on the seas and on the ground.//
//<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The subtraction of American power from any region would</span></span> not end conflict but would <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries.</span></span> The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition.</span></span> The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. </span></span>[[#note18]] And <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">one could also expect the more powerful states of the </span></span>//
//<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran.</span></span> The world hasn ’t changed that much. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to “normal” or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span></span><span class="NothingChar">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="NothingChar">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">back in again.</span></span>//
//The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements.</span></span> Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span></span>//

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures </span>//
//**Tuathail, 96** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct) </span>//

//<span style="tab-stops: 229.5pt;">While theoretical debates at academic conferences are important to academics, the discourse and concerns of foreign-policy decision- makers are quite different, so different that they constitute a distinctive<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> problem- solving, theory-averse, </span>policy-making subculture. There is a danger that academics assume that the discourses they engage are more significant in the practice of foreign policy and the exercise of power than they really are<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. This is not, however, to minimize the obvious importance of academia as a general institutional structure among many that sustain certain epistemic communities in particular states. In general, I do not disagree with </span>Dalby’s<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> fourth point about politics and discourse except to note that his </span>statement-‘Precisely because reality could be represented in particular ways<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> political decisions could be taken, troops and material moved and war fought’-</span>evades the important question of agency<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> that I noted in my review essay. </span>The assumption that it is representations that make action possible is inadequate by itself. Political, military and economic structures, institutions, discursive networks and leadership are all crucial in explaining social action and should be theorized together with representational practices<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Both here and earlier, Dalby’s reasoning inclines towards a form of idealism. In response to Dalby’s fifth point (with its three subpoints), it is worth noting, first, that his book is about the CPD, not the Reagan administration. He analyzes certain CPD discourses, root the geographical reasoning practices of the Reagan administration nor its public-policy reasoning on national security. Dalby’s book is narrowly textual; the general contextuality of the Reagan administration is not dealt with. Second, let me simply note that I find that the distinction between critical theorists and post- structuralists is a little too rigidly and heroically drawn by Dalby and others. Third, Dalby’s interpretation of the reconceptualization of national security in Moscow as heavily influenced by dissident peace researchers in Europe is highly idealist, an interpretation that ignores the structural and ideological crises facing the Soviet elite at that time. Gorbachev’s reforms and his new security discourse were also strongly self- interested, an ultimately futile attempt to save the Communist Party and a discredited regime of power from disintegration. The issues raised by Simon Dalby in his comment are important ones for all those interested in the practice of critical geopolitics. While I agree with Dalby that questions of discourse are extremely important ones for political geographers to engage, </span>there is a danger of fetishizing this concern with discourse so that we neglect the institutional and the sociological, the materialist and the cultural, the political and the geographical contexts within which particular discursive strategies become significant. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Critical geopolitics, in other words, should not be a prisoner of the sweeping ahistorical cant that sometimes accompanies ‘poststructuralism nor convenient reading strategies like the identity politics narrative; it needs to always be open to the patterned mess that is human history. </span></span>//

//**US IMPERIALISM IS GOOD – IT IS NECESSARY TO STOP GENOCIDE, STABILIZE REGIONS AND SPREAD DEMOCRACY**//
//**Boot 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow for national security studies at Council on Foreign Relations (Max, May 13, “US Imperialism: A Force for Good”, http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5959, st) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mind you, this is not meant as a condemnation. The history of American imperialism is hardly one of unadorned good doing; there have been plenty of shameful episodes, such as the mistreatment of the Indians. But, on the whole, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. imperialism has been the greatest force for good in the world during the past century. It has defeated the monstrous evils of communism and Nazism and lesser evils such as the Taliban and Serbian ethnic cleansing. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Along the way, it has helped spread liberal institutions to countries as diverse as South Korea and Panama. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, while generally successful as imperialists, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Americans</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have been loath to confirm that's what they were doing. That's OK. Given the historical baggage that "imperialism" carries, there's no need for the U.S. government to embrace the term. But it </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">should definitely embrace the practice. </span></span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That doesn't mean looting Iraq of its natural resources; nothing could be more destructive of the goal of building a stable government in Baghdad.</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> It means imposing the rule of law, property rights, free speech and other guarantees, at gunpoint if need be. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This will require selecting a new ruler who is committed to pluralism and then backing him or her to the hilt. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Iran and other neighbouring states won't hesitate to impose their despotic views on Iraq; we shouldn't hesitate to impose our democratic views.</span></span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The indications are mixed as to whether the United States is prepared to embrace its imperial role unapologetically. Rumsfeld has said that an Iranian-style theocracy "isn't going to happen," and U.S. President George Bush has pledged to keep U.S. troops in Iraq as long as necessary to "build a peaceful and representative government." After allowing a temporary power vacuum to develop, U.S. troops now are moving aggressively to put down challenges to their authority by, for example, arresting the self-declared "mayor" of Baghdad. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That's all for the good. But there are also some worrisome signs. Bush asked for only US$2.5-billion from Congress for rebuilding Iraq, even though a study from the Council on Foreign Relations and the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy estimates that US $25-billion to US$100-billion will be needed. Iraq's oil revenues and contributions from allies won't cover the entire shortfall. Bush should be doing more to prepare the U.S. public and Congress for a costly commitment. Otherwise, Iraqis quickly could become disillusioned about the benefits of liberation. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The cost of U.S. commitment will be measured not only in money, but also in troops. While Bush and Rumsfeld have wisely eschewed any talk of an early "exit strategy," they still seem to think U.S. forces won't need to stay more than two years. Rumsfeld even denied a report that the U.S. armed forces are planning to open permanent bases in Iraq. If they're not, they should be. That's the only way to ensure the security of a nascent democracy in such a rough neighbourhood. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Does the U.S. administration really imagine that Iraq will have turned into Switzerland in two years' time? </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Allied rule lasted four years in Germany and seven years in Japan. American troops remain stationed in both places more than 50 years later. That's why these two countries have become paragons of liberal democracy.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is crazy to think that Iraq -- which has less of a democratic tradition than either Germany or Japan had in 1945 -- could make the leap overnight. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The record of nation-building during the past decade is clear: </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The United States failed in Somalia and Haiti, where it pulled out troops prematurely. Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan show more promise because U.S. troops remain stationed there. Afghanistan would be making even more progress if the United States and its allies had made a bigger commitment to secure the countryside, not just Kabul. </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If we want Iraq to avoid becoming a Somalia on steroids, we'd better get used to U.S. troops being deployed there for years, possibly decades, to come. If that raises hackles about American imperialism, so be it. The United States is going to be called an empire whatever it does. It might as well be a successful empire. </span></span>//



//**HISTORICALLY, US IMPERIALISM HAS DE-ESCALATED CONFLICTS, BROUGHT PEACE TO REGIONS, CURED DISEASE, AND IS THE ONLY THING STOPPING TERRORISM NOW.**//
//**Roberts 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professional historian (Andrew, February 26, interview with Jamie Glazog in Front Page magazine “A History of English Speaking Peoples Since 1900”, http://97.74.65.51/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=25427, st) </span>//

//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The US liberated huge portions of the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from Spain at the start of the century, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">protected Europe</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from being taken over by Wilhelmine Germany in the Great War, called a unilateral moratorium on War Debts under the Dawes Plan, aided the Allies before Pearl Harbor, chose to destroy Hitlerism before Japan, mobilised more men in World War II and spent more money for victory than any other power, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">liberated North Africa, France, Germany, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Italy and Austria from the Nazis,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the Far East from the Japanese, launched the $14 Billion Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe, saved Berlin from being forced into the Soviet zone of Germany in 1948, protected South Korea and Chile, attempted to her uttermost to protect South Vietnam from the murderous scourges of Communism, it reached the Moon, won more Nobel prizes per capita than any other country, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">discovered the cures for numerous diseases such as polio, spends more in private philanthropy than any other nation by a significant factor, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">financed a large part of NATO for over 60 years, masterminded ultimate victory in the Cold War under Ronald Reagan bringing democracy to Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and the Baltics, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and crushed Milosevic's murderous regime in Kosovo. The US is presently shouldering around 90% of the burden defending Civilisation from the lethal and unappeasable threat of Islamic Fundamentalist terrorism. It's a glorious record, and one that deserves to be lauded more by a nation that all too often deprecated the enormously beneficial world role it has played</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since 1900. </span>//





//**THE ALTERNATIVE TO IMPERIALISM IS ISOLATIONISM – US IMPERIALISM IS KEY TO WINNING THE WAR ON TERROR.**//
//**Roberts 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professional historian (Andrew, February 26, interview with Jamie Glazog in Front Page magazine “A History of English Speaking Peoples Since 1900”, http://97.74.65.51/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=25427, st) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roberts:</span> <span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I fear, in the light of</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Congress's recent nonbinding (and utterly self-contradictory) resolution opposing the surge, the gross bias of much of </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Left</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Liberal media, and the present poll ratings of Sen Hillary Clinton, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that the US will lose the will to fight the War against Terror</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in any manner that might hold out the hope of ultimate victory. </span>//
//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The alternative is isolationism, and the neutering of America</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and with her the English-speaking peoples. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Her wealth will not protect her once the willpower has gone, as has been witnessed countless times in decaying empires of the past. It is, however, not too late.</span></span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FP: Let’s hope it is not too late. And if it isn’t too late, then may I ask what it isn’t too late for? What has to be done to win this conflict? </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roberts: The English-speaking peoples need to recognise that </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in a unipolar world they are not going to be as popular as they were in the pre-1989 bipolar world,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> especially when the other pole was Communism. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Therefore </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">they must toughen their hearts to unpopularity, and instead earn the respect they deserve but doing what is right. In Iraq and Afghanistan this means fighting for as long as it takes to achieve complete and final victory over Radical Islam</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They ought to view the conflict as a very long-term and necessarily painful but unavoidable generational conflict, and dedicate their energy and resources to it, in the way that they were willing to devote them to the extirpation of Nazism, Showa Japanese Fascism and Soviet Communism. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">They should not be afraid of threatening to widen the struggle to include foreign countries that aid and abet the insurgents in Afghanistan and Iraq. They need to do whatever it takes to ensure that no country becomes a safe haven for jihadist terrorism.</span></span>//

//**WEST IS BEST: 3 REASONS. EXTINCTION IS THE ALTERNATIVE.**//
//**Locke 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor emeritus of management at the University of Maryland at College Park (Edwin, November, “The Greatness of Western Civilization”, http://www.aynrand.org/site/DocServer/newsletter_multiculturalism.pdf?docID=162, st) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this age of diversity-worship, it is considered virtually axiomatic that all cultures are equal. Western culture, claim the intellectuals, is in no way superior to that of African tribalists or Eskimo seal hunters. There are no objective standards, they say, that can be used to evaluate the moral stature of different groups. They assert that to deny the equality of all cultures is to be guilty of the most heinous of intellectual sins: “ethnocentrism.” This is to flout the sacred principle of cultural relativism. I disagree with the relativists—absolutely. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There are three fundamental respects in which Western culture is objectively the best.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These are the core values or core achievements of Western civilization, and what made America great. </span>//
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reason</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Greeks were the first to identify philosophically that knowledge is gained through reason and logic as opposed to mysticism (faith, revelation, dogma). </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It would take two millennia, including a Dark Ages and a Renaissance, before the full implications of Greek thought would be realized. The rule of reason reached its zenith in the West in the 18th century — the Age of Enlightenment.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “For the first time in modern history,” writes one philosopher, “an authentic respect for reason became the mark of an entire culture. ” America is a product of the Enlightenment. </span>//
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Individual Rights.</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> An indispensable achievement leading to the Enlightenment was the recognition of the concept of individual rights.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John Locke demonstrated that individuals do not exist to serve governments, but rather that governments exist to protect individuals. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The individual,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said Locke, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of his own happiness.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The result was the United States of America. (Disastrous errors were made in the West—for example, slavery, which originated elsewhere, and Nazism—but these were too incongruent with Western values to last and were corrected, by the West, in the name of its core principles of reason and rights.) </span>//
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Science and Technology.</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> The triumph of reason and rights made possible the full development and application of science and technology and ultimately modern industrial society</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Reason and rights freed man’s mind from the tyranny of religious dogma and freed man’s productive capacity from the tyranny of state control. Scientific and technological progress followed in several interdependent steps. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Men began to understand the laws of nature. They invented an endless succession of new products. And they engaged in large-scale production, that is, the creation of wealth, which in turn financed and motivated further invention and production. As a result, horse-and-buggies were replaced by automobiles, wagon tracks by steel rails, candles by electricity. At last, after millennia of struggle, man became the master of his environment.</span></span>//
//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The result of the core achievements of Western civilization has been an increase in freedom, wealth, health, comfort, and life expectancy unprecedented in the history of the world. The achievements were greatest in the country where the principles of reason and rights were implemented most consistently</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—the United States of America. In contrast, it was precisely in those Eastern and African </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">countries which did not embrace reason, rights, and technology where people suffered (and still suffer) most from both natural and man-made disasters (famine, poverty, illness, dictatorship) and where life expectancy was (and is) lowest</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is said that </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">primitives </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">live “in harmony with nature,” but in reality they </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are simply victims of the vicissitudes of nature—if some dictator does not kill them first. The greatness of the West is not an “ethnocentric” prejudice; it is an objective fact. This assessment is based on the only proper standard for judging a government or a society: the degree to which its core values are pro- or anti-life. Pro-life cultures acknowledge and respect man’s nature as a rational being who must discover and create the conditions which his survival and happiness require—which means that they advocate reason, rights, freedom, and technological progress.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Despite its undeniable triumphs, Western civilization is by no means secure. Its core principles are under attack from every direction— by religious fanatics, by dictators and, most disgracefully, by Western intellectuals, who are denouncing reason in the name of skepticism, rights in the name of special entitlements, and progress in the name of environmentalism. We are heading rapidly toward the dead end of nihilism. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The core values and achievements of the West and America must be asserted proudly and defended to the death. Our lives depend on them.</span></span>//

//**WEST IS BEST – IT IS A BASTION OF PEACE AND LIBERTY**//
//**Warraq 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – editor of multiple books on culture and religion (Ibn, City Journal, Winter, “Why the West is Best”, http://www.city-journal.org/2008/18_1_snd-west.html, st) </span>//

//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The great ideas of the West—rationalism, self-criticism, the disinterested search for truth, the separation of church and state, the rule of law and equality under the law, freedom of thought and expression, human rights, and liberal democracy—are superior to any others devised by humankind. It was the West that took steps to abolish slavery</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; the calls for abolition did not resonate even in Africa, where rival tribes sold black prisoners into slavery. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The West has secured freedoms for women and racial and other minorities to an extent unimaginable 60 years ago. The West recognizes and defends the rights of the individual</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: we are free to think what we want, to read what we want, to practice our religion, to live lives of our choosing. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In short, the glory of the West, as philosopher Roger Scruton puts it, is that life here is an open book. Under Islam, the book is closed. In many non-Western countries, especially Islamic ones, citizens are not free to read what they wish. In Saudi Arabia, Muslims are not free to convert to Christianity, and Christians are not free to practice their faith—clear violations of Article 18 of the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In contrast with the mind-numbing enforced certainties and rules of Islam, Western civilization offers what Bertrand Russell once called “liberating doubt,” which encourages the methodological principle of scientific skepticism. Western politics, like science, proceeds through tentative steps of trial and error, open discussion, criticism, and self-correction. </span>//
//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">One could characterize the difference between the West and the Rest as a difference in epistemological principles. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The desire for knowledge, no matter where it leads, inherited from the Greeks, has led to an institution unequaled—or very rarely equaled—outside the West: the university. Along with research institutes and libraries, universities are, at least ideally, independent academies that enshrine these epistemological norms, where we can pursue truth in a spirit of disinterested inquiry, free from political pressures. In other words, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">behind the success of modern Western societies, with their science and technology and open institutions, lies a distinct way of looking at the world, interpreting it, and recognizing and rectifying problems. </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The edifice of modern science and scientific method is one of Western man’s greatest gifts to the world. The West has given us not only nearly every scientific discovery of the last 500 years—from electricity to computers—but also, thanks to its humanitarian impulses, the Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, Human Rights Watch, and Amnesty International. The West provides the bulk of aid to beleaguered Darfur</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Islamic countries are conspicuous by their lack of assistance. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">other parts of the world recognize Western superiority</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When other societies such as South Korea and Japan have adopted Western political principles, their citizens have flourished. It is to the West, not to Saudi Arabia or Iran, that millions of refugees from theocratic or other totalitarian regimes flee, seeking tolerance and political freedom. Nor would any Western politician be able to get away with the anti-Semitic remarks that former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad made in 2003. Our excusing Mahathir’s diatribe indicates not only a double standard but also a tacit acknowledgment that we apply higher ethical standards to Western leaders. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A culture that gave the world the novel; the music of Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert; and the paintings of Michelangelo, da Vinci, and Rembrandt does not need lessons from societies whose idea of heaven, peopled with female virgins, resembles a cosmic brothel. Nor does the West need lectures on the superior virtue of societies in which women are kept in subjection under sharia, endure genital mutilation, are stoned to death for alleged adultery, and are married off against their will at the age of nine; societies that deny the rights of supposedly lower castes; societies that execute homosexuals and apostates. </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The West has no use for sanctimonious homilies from societies that cannot provide clean drinking water or sewage systems, that make no provisions for the handicapped, and that leave 40 to 50 percent of their citizens illiterate.</span></span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Ayatollah Khomeini once famously said, there are no jokes in Islam. The West is able to look at its foibles and laugh, to make fun of its fundamental principles: but there is no equivalent as yet to Monty Python’s </span>//Life of Brian //in Islam. Can we look forward, someday, to a// Life of Mo//? Probably not—one more small sign that <span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Western values remain the best, and perhaps the only, means for all people, no matter of what race or creed, to reach their full potential and live in freedom.</span></span>