[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Deontology AC=== 
I affirm. Resolved: states ought not possess nuclear weapons.
Ought indicates a moral obligation. 
**Value: morality**

default aff-
1) textuality
2) time skew
3) omission > action.

aff doesn't have to defend the logistics of disarmament
1) ought = ideal and not possessing is distinct from disarming
2) lack of specification of internal conditions of states means solvency is an impossible burden

**Criterion: respecting human worth**
1) human worth is a conceptual requirement of morality
2) prerequisite to discourse
3) utilitarianism is not objective and justifies atrocities 
**Anderson 04** [Kerby Anderson is the National Director of Probe Ministries International, "Utilitarianism: The Greatest Good for the Greatest Number" http://www.probe.org/site/c.fdKEIMNsEoG/b.4224805/k.B792/Utilitarianism_The_Greatest_Good_for_the_Greatest_Number.htm]
one problem with...is intrinsically valuable

**Contention 1.**
**A. Nuclear weapons create a gendered international context**
**Cohn, Hill, and Ruddick 05** [Carol Cohn is the Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights, Felicity Hill is the Peace and Security Adviser to the United Nations Development Fund for Women, Sara Ruddick is the author of //Maternal Thinking: Toward a Politics of Peace//, "The Relevance of Gender for Eliminating Weapons of Mass Destruction", Disarmament Diplomacy Issue 80, Autumn 2005, The Acronym Institute, http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd80/80ccfhsr.htm]
That a nation wishing to...in American Politics

**B. Root cause of violence and oppression.** 
**Steans 98** [Jill Steans, Senior Lecturer in International Relations; Gender and International Relations: An Introduction, 1998, p. 102-103]
In this view...the subject of chapter 5.

**C. Feminist criticism of nuclear weapons solves.**
**Labalme 02** [Fen LaBalme, "Activism: Pease: NVCD: Discrimination," 2002, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discriminationshtml]
Struggling against nuclear weapons...conceive of nuclear war as "winnable".


**Contention 2.** 
**A. Exploiting indigenous populations is key to the production of nuclear weapons.** 
**Mackenthun 2k** [Gesa Mackenthun, "America's Troubled Postcoloniality: Some Reflections from Abroad", //Discourse//, 22.3, Fall 2000, pg. 34-350, Wayne State University Press, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/dis/summary/v022/22.3mackenthun.html]
All nuclear weapon states...on Lakota land.

**B. Disarm solves nuclear colonialism.**
**Baldonado 98** [Myrla Baldonado, Statement Coordinator, http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/library/treaties/non-proliferation-treaty/prepcom/trty_npt_prepcom_1998_nuclear-colonialism.htm]
Nuclear weapons, the focus of...the political sphere and civil society.


**Contention 3.** 
**Nuclear weapons target civilian populations.**
**Hanson 02** [Marianne, “ Nuclear Weapons as obstacles to International Security” , International Relations, Sage, 2002]
The first and arguably most...ever be justified.

**Nuclear weapons represent a willingness to sacrifice civilians for the state's ends.** 
**Lichterman 09** [Andrew Lichterman, lawyer and policy analyst Western States Legal Foundation, "Disarmament work amidst a global economic crisis," 8/6/09. http://disarmamentactivist.org/wpcontent/uploads/2009/08/Lichterman%20Hiroshima%20Day%202009.pdf]
Nuclear weapons represent...something about it.


**Underview:**
**The use of the word weapons implies the intentionality to harm.**
**Hallett and Summy 03** [Brien Hallett is an associate Professor of the Matsunaga Institute for Pease at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, Ralph Summy is an Adjunct Professor of Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Queensland. "Detooling the Language of the Master's House: The Case of Those 'Nuclear Thing.'" Peace and Change. Volume 28, No.2. April 2003]
That which makes a...to harm another person.

==Negative== 
===Bioweapons DA=== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]