[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Yokosuka Aff - Valley== 

Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan by closing the Yokosuka Naval base.

INHERENCY
Despite Japanese protests, the United States military is increasing presence at Yokosuka
Japan Today, Rally held in Yokosuka to protest nuke carrier deployment, July 20, 2010 http://www.japantoday.com/category/national/view/rally-held-in-yokosuka-to-protest-nuke-carrier-deployment

An antinuclear organization ….15,000 participants, the organizer said.

SEXUAL VIOLENCE

1. Yokosuka is the quintessential example of US military presence fostering sexual violence against womyn and absolving rapists of all responsibility
Johnson 2009
(Chalmers, President of the Japan Policy Research Institute Professor Emeritus of Political Science @UC San Diego, Dismantling The Empire, July 30, http://www.countercurrents.org/johnson300709.htm)
The military itself has done next …. Japanese jails for sex crimes.

2. And this violent presence has converted the globe into a practical rapists' playground.
Johnson 2009
(Chalmers, President of the Japan Policy Research Institute Professor Emeritus of Political Science @UC San Diego, Dismantling The Empire, July 30, http://www.countercurrents.org/johnson300709.htm)
Within the military itself, the journalist Dahr Jamail, ….bring the troops home from countries where they do not understand

3. Rape is a preferred tool for dehumanization
Benner, March 2010
(Stacey Rae, Soul Murder, Social Death, and Humiliation: Consequences of State- sponsored Rape, The New York Sociologist, Vol. 4)
The typical method of humiliation ….ensure the victim understands that she is less than human.

4. This impact is worse that death
Benner, March 2010
(Stacey Rae, Soul Murder, Social Death, and Humiliation: Consequences of State- sponsored Rape, The New York Sociologist, Vol. 4)
In patriarchal societies …. reject the tainted female.

5. The resulting impact of subordination amounts in magnitude to a literal war against those who are subjected to gendered violence
Ray, US Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, 2-1997 [Amy, American University Law Review]



Because, as currently constructed, …. could be prosecuted for human rights violations under war crimes statutes.


MILITARISM
1. The Yokosuka base is the ultimate symbol of militarism in Japan – empirically proven
The Japan Times, 2/8/04, “THE WAR’S LEAGACY: Dawn of a Tragic Era” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20040208x3.html
Across a waterfront park ….group is deployed in nearby Japanese waters.

2. Regardless of why the US originally went to Japan, they maintain their presence to prop up militarist ideals
Chalmers Johnson, President of the Japan Policy Research Institute, 2004
(The Sorrows of Empire, p. 25-26)
Whatever the original reason …. what empires cost or how they end.

3. Militarism causes the dehumanization of others
Committee Opposed to Militarism and the Draft, September 3, 2001 http://www.comdsd.org/militarism.htm
Militarism is a value system… beneficial and continue to endorse it.

4. Dehumanization allows for the “other” to be constructed and devalued – this thought process justifies nuclear war

Berube, 97 (Professor of Communications, South Carolina University, “Nontechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side Nanotechnology Magazine
Assuming we are able to predict who… dehumanization is evil’s most powerful weapon.

SOLVENCY
1. EACH INDIVIDUAL MUST REJECT MILITARISM-WE MUST MAKE EVERY EFFORT AT TRANSFORMATION AND REBIRTH OR WE FACE THE DESTRUCTION OF THE PLANET
Beres, Professor of International Law at Purdue, 1994
(Louis. Arizona Journal of International Law and Comparative Law, 11 Ariz. J. Int'I & Compo Law 1, Lexis)

In giving ourselves over …. reduces it to a condition of lethargy.”

2. U.S. Hegemony is over.
Karaganov, Sergei, (head of Council of Foreign and Defense Policy) 'Russia's Choice', Survival, 52:1, 5 – 10 February 2010
Today, the Euro-Atlantic world seems … will never completely regain its former status.


3. U.S. Hegemony is unsustainable

Christopher Layne (Professor in Intelligence and National Security, at Texas A&M) Summer 2009 “ The Waning of U.S. Hegemony—Myth or Reality? A Review Essay” International security Volume 34 No 1 Muse

The warning signs … be compelled to retract its overseas military commitments.88


==TNWs Aff - Blake==


Observation 1: Inherency 

1.	The United States depends on its Turkish base for access to Iran/Iraq 
World Tribune.com 2007
Officials …with Ankara.

2.  Turkey Holds 90 US nuclear Devices which cannot be used anyway
Bell and Loehrke ’09  Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists (Bell is the project manager at the Ploughshares Fund and a Truman National Security Fellow. Loehrke is a research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund and a graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy. http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey, chm)
Today, Turkey hosts … never that easy.

Plan Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Turkey. We’ll clarify.   

Advantage 1: Proliferation 

1.	TNWs in Turkey undermine NPT credibility 

King, Lindborg, and Maxon 2008 (Jeff, Chris, Phillip, BASIC, “NATO Nuclear Sharing: Opportunity for Change?” Getting to Zero Papers, No. 9)
Aside from security… a nuclear state. 

2.	Also, continued presence of TNW’s increases the probability of proliferation in China, India, and Pakistan
Pomper et al. 2009 
(Miles A, William Potter, Nikolai Sokov, Reducing and Regulating Tactical (Nonstrategic) Nuclear Weapons in Europe, James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies)
The longer the stalemate…. nuclear weapons states.

3.	India Pakistan proliferation leads to nuclear war
Leigh, David, The Hindu. December 1st, 2010 
Despite pending … exchange with India. 

4.	Regional nuclear war leads to massive death, climate change, and food scarcity 
Homeland Security Newswire, January 28th, 2009 
(http://homelandsecuritynewswire.com/global-consequence-regional-nuclear-war)
•	The United States … mass starvation.
 
5.	Proliferation risks global nuclear war and extinction
Krieger ‘9  (David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor – World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger)
Jonathan Tepperman’s … Tepperman

6.	Strengthening the non-proliferation regime is the only way to prevent nuclear escalation and continue proliferation

Perry et al in 2k9 (William, former secretary of defense, and a shitload of other qualified people, America’s Strategic Posture, The Final Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, http://media.usip.org/reports/strat_posture_report.pdf)

There is no …. these issues. 


7.	Removing TNW’s from Turkey solves NPT credibility  and risk of proliferation 

Avery 2009 (John, Associate Professor of Theoretical Chemistry, H.C. Ørsted Institute, University of Copenhagen, “The Way Is Open for a Nuclear Weapon-Free Northern Europe”, Active Nonviolence, January 22, p. http://www.active-nonviolence.org/?p=196)

The strongest … along the road.

Advantage: Hegemony 
 
1.  Currently, our relationship with Turkey is focused on the use of the Incirlik airbase 
Lesser, Ian O. 2006.  Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, Former Member of Policy Planning Staff in the US Dept. of State. Turkey, the United States and the Delusion of Geopolitics. Survival Magazine 48(3): 83-96

After a decade … than competitive. 

2. The US views Turkey as a staging ground for its Middle East power projection 
Lesser, Ian O. 2006.  Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, Former Member of Policy Planning Staff in the US Dept. of State. Turkey, the United States and the Delusion of Geopolitics. Survival Magazine 48(3): 83-96

Even in the … abstract geopolitical formulas.

3.  US hegemony and interventionism through our maintenance of bases causes global war 
Polya 10 (Dr. Gideon Polya, professor at Cornell, environment expert, author, “4 July US Independence Day: US Imperialism, Terrorism & Genocide Deny Life, Liberty & Happiness to World,” Bella Ciao, http://bellaciao.org/en/spip.php?article19981)

According to Professor … http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.... )

4. These wars will cause extinction
BBC, 06 (“North Korean paper decries US pursuit of ‘preemptive nuclear strike’,” April 11, originally published by Minju Choson on February 15, Lexis)

In the "Review … put at risk.
5. US attempts to influence the middle east lead to Russian and Chinese backlash culminating in nuclear war
Roberts 2/25 – former assistant secretary of Treasury, associate editor of WSJ [Paul Craig, “The Road to Armageddon,” Foreign Policy Journal, 2/25/10, http://www.foreignpolicyjournal.com/2010/02/26/the-road-to-armageddon]
The U.S. has … government, are facilitating this outcome. 

6. Attempts to assert our power in the Middle East lead to a showdown with Iran
Layne 7 (Christopher, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, Review of International Studies (2009), "The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 64-65, DB)
Iran Because … assumptions are correct

7. Conflict with Iran causes Extinction
Jorge Hirsch (San Diego Union Tribune) January 3, 2006 “America’s nuclear ticking bomb” http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html
If only conventional … those targeting cities or armies.

8. America wants to utilize Turkey as a role model for democracy promotion within the Arab world
Lesser, Ian O. 2006.  Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, Former Member of Policy Planning Staff in the US Dept. of State. Turkey, the United States and the Delusion of Geopolitics. Survival Magazine 48(3): 83-96

Third, Turks … engagement with these neighbours.

9. Democracy promotion leads to ethnic conflict
Zakaria 3
Fareed Zakaria, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, editor of Newsweek International, , p. 113
Ethnic conflict … full-scale war.

10. Democratic transitions lead to war – makes future movements to stable democracy less likely
Mansfeld and Snyder 7
Ed and Jack, Professors, The Sequencing "Fallacy", Journal of Democracy, pg. Muse
There is, …. occurring under other conditions.
11. Attempts to spread democracy provoke terrorism – challenges revolutionary ideology 
Newmann 08 (William W. Newmann, political analyst, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, “Hegemonic Competition, Hegemonic Disruption, and the Current War,” All Academic, April 3, 2008, http://www.allacademic.com/one/prol/prol01/index.php?click_key=1&PHPSESSID=7d0a614d8092e39f85db5e5258663110)
In addition…substantial Muslim populations. 
12. Terrorist attack risks extinction. 
Alexander Prof and Director of Inter-University for Terrorism Studies 3 
(Yonah, Terrorism Myths and Realities, Washington Times, Prof and Director of Inter-University
For Terrorism Studies)
Last week's … global security concerns. 

13. Democracy building efforts are inherently flawed in both design and implementation; non-intervention is the only way to solve
Coyne, Chirstopher. “Individual Liberty, Free Markets, and Trade.” Cato Policy Report. 
January/February 2008
In Democracy in America, …. free trade with all countries.

14. Attempts to maintain hegemony are futile multipolarity is inevitable
Phillips, 10 Analyst of Middle East Affairs (Chris, “US hegemony in Middle East is ending”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/may/31/us-hegemony-middle-east-ending)
 Yet even though …Middle East could be ending. 
15. Claims about hegemony solving conflicts are flawed reliance on hardpower has been destabilizing
Carl Conetta (co-directs the Project on Defense Alternatives, a defense-policy think tank. Earlier, he was a research fellow at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies)December 2008 “ 	 Forceful Engagement: Rethinking the Role of Military Power in US Global Policy” http://www.comw.org/pda/081201FE-ExecSum.htm
Despite initial successes … for less and less security. 

16. A reformation of policy is possible if the United States views Turkey as a partner not a location necessitating multipolarity
Lesser, Ian O. 2006.  Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, Former Member of Policy Planning Staff in the US Dept. of State. Turkey, the United States and the Delusion of Geopolitics. Survival Magazine 48(3): 83-96
Finally, Turkish … concerted policies. 




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]