===[[toc]]=== 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===Due Process AC=== 


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">H.L.A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 1955), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 9.0pt;">“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”. Timothy M. O’Donnell. Director of Debate. University of Mary Washington.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Rixey—‘09 Cart Rixey – 2009, [J.D. candidate 2010, The Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law; B.A. 2004, The University of </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The author wishes to thank Professor Harvey Schweitzer and J. John Lee, Esq. for their guidance and invaluable insight throughout the writing process. The author would also like to thank her family for their patience and support.], “The Ultimate Disillusionment: The Need for Jury Trials In Juvenile Adjudications” Spring 2009. HeinOnline.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Berkheiser, Mary. The Fiction of Juvenile Right to Counsel: Waiver in the Juvenile Courts. Florida Law Review. 2002. Pg. 11-12. Associate Professor of Law at University of Nevada </span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Barry C. Feld. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy Source: The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology” (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136. Northwestern University <</span><span style="color: #002fc6; font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">></span> </span></span>

<span style="color: #1e00ca; font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/scholastic/document?_m=14529205dbdb1b702fe1795b485506f9&_docnum=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkVk&_md5=c22bd15315f18223e375a9c08edc4442|Copyright (c) 2007 Barry Law Review Barry Law Review]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Fall, 2007, 9 Barry L. Rev. 1, 28237 words, SYMPOSIUM ISSUE: IN RE GAULT: ARTICLE: "UNCHAIN THE CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING, Bernard P. Perlmutter *</span>


<span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kathleen A. Baldi. JD from Seattle University School of Law, “The Denial of a State Constitutional Right to Bail in Juvenile Proceedings: The Need for Reassessment in Washington State” 1996</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Maroney, Terry. Associate Professor, Vanderbilt Law. “The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice.” Notre Dame Law Review, 2009.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 120%;">Rehab AC</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Doug Sigel. [Former debate coach and professor at Northwestern University]. “The Punishment Theory: Illegitimate Styles and Theories as Voting Issues.” 1984.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Morality and Foreign Policy</span>**<span style="color: #153364; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/author/george-f-kennan/index.html|George F. Kennan]]</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> From //Foreign Affairs//, </span><span style="color: #153364; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/1985/2.html|Winter 1985/86]]</span> //<span style="color: #646464; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">George F. Kennan is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton. Copyright © 1985 by George F. Kennan.</span>//</span>


//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey</span><span style="font-size: 1.5pt;">1 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and Francis T. Cullen</span><span style="font-size: 1.5pt;">2 </span>//1 <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: </span>//[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|//mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu//]]// <span style="font-size: 1.5pt;">2 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: </span>//[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|//cullenft@email.uc.edu//]]//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> Annual Review of Law and Social Science</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">, volume 3, 2007</span>//


//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1] Gordon Graham [Henry Luce III Professor of Philosophy and the Arts at Prince Theological Seminary. Ph.D., M.A., Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh]. Contemporary Social Philosophy, 1988, p. 141.</span>//


//**[Maise 03** (Michelle, Michelle Maiese is a graduate student of Philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder and is a part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium, “Dehumanization”, Beyondintractability.org, 2003.]//


//<span style="font-family: Times;">Just Say No to Retribution, Edward Rubin (University of Pennsylvania Law School.), BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW [Vol. 7:17], 2004, </span>//


[1]<span style="color: #1d8300; font-size: 8pt;">POWER KILLS: GENOCIDE AND MASS MURDER, RJ Rummel </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Power, Genocide and Mass Murder," Journal of Peace Research 31 (no.1, 1994): 1-10. http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/POWER.ART.HTM#*</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey</span><span style="font-size: 3.5pt;">1 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Francis T. Cullen</span><span style="font-size: 3.5pt;">2 //1// </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: </span>//[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|//mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu//]] //<span style="font-size: 3.5pt;">2 </span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: </span>//[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|//cullenft@email.uc.edu//]]//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Annual Review of Law and Social Science</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, volume 3, 2007</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18</span><span style="font-size: 3.5pt;">th </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In press, //Journal of Experimental Criminology//, 2005</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd. </span>






==Negative== 

===Hart NC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">H.L.A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 1955), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Professor Watson joined the Philosophy Department in 1999.], "Excusing Addiction. Law and Philosophy 18. (1999). pp. 589-619.</span>


<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mary Beckman – 2004.</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> [media relations at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory] “Crime, Culpability and the Adolescent Brain.” July 30th, 2004. Science, Vol. 305, Issue 5684.</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">University of Virginia School of Law, Blaming Youth Elizabeth Scott [Professor of Law, Virginia Law School] and Laurence Steinberg [Distinguished University Professor and Laura H. Carnell Professor of Psychology, Temple University, Director of the John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Adolescent Development and Juvenile Justice] Research Paper No. 02-14, December 2002 </span>



==<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Theory/Topicality </span></span>== 

=== === 



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]