[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
//BLAKE 1AC//


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">FIRST IS THE STATUS QUO -</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">OBAMA’S JULY 2011 WITHDRAWAL DEADLINE WON’T BE MET – BUT IT SHOULD HAVE TRIGGERED YOUR PERCEPTION DISADS</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Rubin, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at the <span style="color: black;">American Enterprise Institute</span>; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the <span style="color: black;">Middle East Quarterly</span>. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline</span>)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">It is true, as Schlesinger points out, that Obama did not set a date for the completion of the withdrawal, but he signaled its finite nature. And herein lays the problem. The reason Obama spoke of a deadline was not to pressure Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai but rather to assuage constituencies in the United States increasingly wary of open-ended U.S. involvement in the country. But in the Middle East and South Asia, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">perception matters far more than reality</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">. Diplomatic affairs expert Omar Sharifi, speaking on Afghan television, declared, "Today the Afghans unfortunately lost the game and failed to get a long-term commitment from the international community." Likewise, Afghan political analyst Ahmad Sayedi observed, "When the USA sets a timeline of 18 months for troop withdraw, this by itself boosts the morale of the opponents and makes them less likely to take any step towards reconciliation." It is absolutely correct to say that Obama did not say that all—or even a significant fraction—of U.S. troops would withdraw in July 2011, but this is what was heard not only by U.S. allies and adversaries in Afghanistan but also by the governments and media in regional states such as Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia. </span>//

</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Ignatius 10/19 (“Petraeus rewrites the playbook in Afghanistan,” David, Washington Post, 10/19/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Interestingly, as Petraeus pushes his talk/shoot offensive, we're hearing less about the counterinsurgency strategy that supposedly was his great contribution to military doctrine. Though Petraeus helped write the doctrine in 2006 while he was on a stateside tour as commander at Fort Leavenworth, it is a more basic approach than the wily strategy he has actually used both in Iraq and Afghanistan. Take the central counterinsurgency precept of "protect the population." Petraeus and his deputies are still pushing this "population-centric" approach in Kandahar and Helmand provinces, although senior military officials say it has had only limited success so far. But the real action has been "enemy-centric" -- in stepped-up operations to capture or kill Taliban leaders, along with support for Karzai's attempt to cut a political deal with them. President Obama, having signed off in December on the counterinsurgency approach, is now watching his commander execute a strategy whose biggest successes have come from hard-nosed counterterrorist tactics -- the midnight raid, kick-down-the-door ferocity of the Joint Special Operations Command. There's something about this mix -- a CT wolf in a CI sheep's clothing -- that again is characteristic of Petraeus's protean nature. According to one Special Forces operative, a recent review of operations Petraeus requested showed that 90 percent of the operational success in Afghanistan has come from 5 percent of the forces -- primarily those secret JSOC teams. </span>
PETRAEUS IS SLOWLY SHIFTING FROM COIN TO CT - NO UNIQUE CASE ARGUMENTS
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Ignatius 10/19 (“Petraeus rewrites the playbook in Afghanistan,” David, Washington Post, 10/19/10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Interestingly, as Petraeus pushes his talk/shoot offensive, we're hearing less about the counterinsurgency strategy that supposedly was his great contribution to military doctrine. Though Petraeus helped write the doctrine in 2006 while he was on a stateside tour as commander at Fort Leavenworth, it is a more basic approach than the wily strategy he has actually used both in Iraq and Afghanistan. Take the central counterinsurgency precept of "protect the population." Petraeus and his deputies are still pushing this "population-centric" approach in Kandahar and Helmand provinces, although senior military officials say it has had only limited success so far. But the real action has been "enemy-centric" -- in stepped-up operations to capture or kill Taliban leaders, along with support for Karzai's attempt to cut a political deal with them. President Obama, having signed off in December on the counterinsurgency approach, is now watching his commander execute a strategy whose biggest successes have come from hard-nosed counterterrorist tactics -- the midnight raid, kick-down-the-door ferocity of the Joint Special Operations Command. There's something about this mix -- a CT wolf in a CI sheep's clothing -- that again is characteristic of Petraeus's protean nature. According to one Special Forces operative, a recent review of operations Petraeus requested showed that 90 percent of the operational success in Afghanistan has come from 5 percent of the forces -- primarily those secret JSOC teams. </span>

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">THUS THE PLAN: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all troops engaged in counterinsurgency presence activities in Afghanistan.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ADVANTAGE ONE IS PAKISTAN WAR</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">PAKISTAN IS ON THE BRINK – AUGUST FLOODS WILL GIVE A REINVIGORATED TALIBAN THE CHANCE TO COLLAPSE PAKISTAN</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">PK on Web 8/14</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, “Geopolitical Consequences of Pakistan’s Floods,” PK on Web is a New York City based team-edited web portal covering Pakistan news, <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://pkonweb.com/2010/08/the-geopolitical-consequences-of-pakistans-floods/]]</span> </span>//



<span style="display: block; line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Natural disasters have geopolitical consequences no matter where they occur. In the case of Pakistan, the implications are in a league of their own, given the South Asian nation’s significance in the U.S.-led war against jihadists and the American need to bring closure to it within a short time. Exacerbating matters even further is the fact that Pakistan in the last three years or so has undergone </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">an </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">unprecedented level of destabilization, due to a combination of factors. These include socio-political unrest, a declining security situation due to a raging jihadist insurgency, an energy/power crisis and an economy that is managing to steer clear of bankruptcy only because of multibillion-dollar international loan and aid packages. In the past year or so, since mounting a massive counterinsurgency campaign and retaking large areas formerly under the control of Taliban rebels in the northwest, Pakistan had begun showing faint signs of improvement. Those efforts have been dealt a major blow by floods that have wreaked havoc on a national scale and threaten to cause conditions to deteriorate further. Since flooding continues and rescue and relief efforts will be ongoing for quite some time, current damage assessment reports present only a partial picture of the devastation that has taken place. Therefore, it is difficult to offer a forecast in any meaningful sense. Nonetheless, judging from the scale of destruction and the pre-existing problems that Pakistan has been facing, a number of scenarios can be sketched out. By no means are we saying that these are inevitable, but depending on how events unfold, they remain very much within the realm of possibility. The most immediate concern is that a crisis of these proportions represents a massive logistical challenge, especially for a state with no shortage of other problems. If not managed, the dislocation of such a large number of people who have been deprived of their homes and livelihood, coupled with the destruction of vast chunks of largely agricultural territory in the core Indus River region, can easily translate into massive social unrest. Thus far, the government has not demonstrated much capability. The rescue and relief efforts that have been mounted were made possible by the military’s institutional infrastructure. It will be some time before the focus shifts from short-term emergency relief efforts to long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction measures, which is when there will be an increasing threat of social unrest due to food shortages and the lack of other basic necessities. Some 60,000 troops have been deployed to deal with the flood situation, which means that the military has had to shift considerable resources away from the counterinsurgency efforts in the Pashtun areas along the border with Afghanistan. The floods have likely kept the militants from conducting business as usual, but the shifting of the army’s focus toward disaster management gives the Taliban and al Qaeda elements space and time to try to expand their activities in Pakistan and across the border in Afghanistan. The deterioration of social and economic circumstances creates the perfect atmosphere for jihadists to realize their goals of undermining the state. </span>//</span>



<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN CAUSE PAKISTAN COLLAPSE – RADICALIZES THE POPULATION AND MAKES POLITICAL COOPERATION WITH THE U.S. IMPOSSIBLE</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Simon, and Stevenson, 9</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">* adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The Obama administration's instincts favouring robust counter-insurgency and state-building in Afghanistan reflect the 1990s-era US and European predilection for peacekeeping, reconstruction and stabilisation, and the multilateral use of force for humanitarian intervention, deployed to positive effect in the Balkans and withheld tragically in Rwanda. To the extent that this mindset was premised on an expansion of the rule of law to hitherto poorly and unjustly governed areas, such as Somalia and Bosnia, it reflects the broader conception of counter-terrorism adopted after 11 September. Insofar as it favours collective action by major powers with the unambiguous endorsement of the UN Security Council, it is also consistent with the Obama administration's rejection of Bush-era unilateralism. And an aggressive internationalist approach to spreading democracy and the rule of law, notwithstanding the shortsightedness and inefficacy of the Bush doctrine, is admirable and in some instances appropriate.<span style="color: black;">6</span> In this case, however, it is more likely to hurt than help. While a larger US military footprint might help stabilise Afghanistan in the short term, the effects of collateral damage and the aura of US domination it would generate would also intensify anti-Americanism in Pakistan. This outcome, in turn, would frustrate both core American objectives by rendering it politically far more difficult for the Pakistani government to cooperate with Washington (and easier for the quasi-independent Inter-Services Intelligence to collude with the Taliban and al-Qaeda), thus making it harder for the United States to defeat al-Qaeda. It would also increase radicalisation in Pakistan,**__imperil the regime__ and raise proliferation risks, increasing rather than decreasing pressure on India to act in the breach of American ineffectuality.**


U.S. OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN ARE FUELING PAKISTAN CIVIL WAR – EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO THE STATE

Akhtar, 10- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#</span>) </span>**1

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside Pakistan, it is a civil war because its origins stem from the US, NATO occupation of neighboring Afghanistan. The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination. It is inaccurate to say that the US invaded Afghanistan because of the 9/11 attacks by Al-Qaeda. Former BBC correspondent George Arney reported on September 18, 2001, that Niaz Naik, the former Pakistani foreign secretary, had told him that he was informed by US officials at a UN-sponsored international contact group on Afghanistan in Berlin during July that year that unless Osama bin Laden were handed over swiftly, America would take military action to kill or capture both Bin Laden and Mullah Omar. The wider objective, however, was to topple the Taliban regime and install a transitional government under King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The invasion was to take place in mid-October 2001. Mr. Naik went on to say that he doubted that the US would have abandoned its plan to invade Afghanistan even if Osama were handed over by the Taliban. Arney's story is corroborated by the Guardian correspondent David Leigh in his report published on September 26, 2001, in which he revealed that the Taliban had received specific warning by the US through secret diplomacy in Berlin in July that the Bush Administration would topple the entire regime militarily unless Osama is extradited to the US. This was part of the larger design of US military, industrial complex to bring about regime change in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran. As the US needed bases in Pakistan to accomplish its pre-planned invasion of Afghanistan, the Bush Administration sought to use Islamabad as a cat's paw to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. Fortunately for President Bush, a usurper ruled there, devoid of all legitimacy, legal and moral, and he readily and willingly succumbed to US pressure and made a U-turn by severing all links with the Taliban. He even joined the war against Afghanistan instead of using his leverage with the Taliban to exhaust all means of peaceful settlement of the dispute. The entire region, including Pakistan, was declared a war zone by the US military command, and the flights of all passenger planes were prohibited over a certain altitude, while no merchant ships could enter the harbors of Pakistan, thus bringing maritime trade (which comprises approximately 95 percent of Pakistan's import-export trade) to a standstill. It is no wonder that Pakistan suffered a loss of 34 billion dollars because of its involvement in the Afghan war. America's War As one can see, it was America's war that was imposed upon Pakistan. Whether Pakistan could have avoided the war is a matter of controversy among politicians and political observers. But the war has fuelled insurgency in Pakistan's hitherto peaceful tribal territory adjacent to Afghanistan. This insurgency shows no sign of abatement, as terrorist attacks on military and civilian centers in the capital and major cities of the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab continue with a vengeance, posing threat to the security of the state. In the meantime, routine predator strikes by the US in Waziristan have taken a heavy toll of civilian lives amid accusations of Islamabad's complicity in the piratical attacks on tribespeople, which prompts them to resort to retaliatory strikes on the perpetrators. Not satisfied with Pakistan's military operations in the tribal region, the US Administration has compelled Islamabad's fragile government to pull out its troops from the tense Indo-Pak border and deploy them in the restive tribal belt along the Pak-Afghan border. Now Pakistan faces existential threat from the Taliban and not India, a perception which the country's military leadership is not prepared to share, given the unresolved disputes with New Delhi, which triggered four wars during the last 62 years. At the same time, speculation (not entirely unfounded) is rife about the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the former Blackwater (now christened Xe Services) in murder, mayhem, and gunrunning as evidenced by the armed Americans who drive consulate vehicles through cities and, when intercepted, refuse to disclose their identity. It is here that one recalls with dismay the role of General Stanley McChrystal, who until last year headed the Joint Special Operations Command, which runs drone attacks and targeted assassinations with the assistance of the operatives of the former Blackwater. This was revealed by Jeremy Scahill's investigative report published in the US weekly the Nation. That may, perhaps, solve the mystery surrounding a series of assassinations of ulama belonging to various Islamic movements. The sinister motive behind such acts of terror is to incite sectarian violence in Pakistan and lay the blame at the doors of religious extremists. Similar death squads were organized by the CIA in El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua to carry out political assassinations of nationalists who were opposed to US intervention. At the time, the Sandinista government of Nicaragua complained to the International Court of Justice about the mining of Nicaraguan ports, the violation of the country's airspace, the killing and kidnapping of individuals on the Nicaraguan territory, and the threat or use of force by the US. The court in its decision in June 1986 held that the US was in breach of the customary rules of international law and international humanitarian law. The above case is titled the "Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua." The precedent set by this case may be invoked by Pakistan to prevent the US drone attacks on its territory. Once the piratical attacks of the US have stopped, the irritant in the tribal insurgency would have gone, paving the way for pacification of the conflict. If this were Pakistan's war, the government would have exercised its own judgment in dealing with the militants at home, either by conciliation or by resort to force. But Islamabad's so-called operation against militants is subordinated to US military designs in the region, aimed at the encirclement of the People's Republic of China and the control of the transit of gas pipelines from Central Asia to South Asia. It is not aimless that China expressed its concern over the concentration of US, NATO troops in the region. India fits in the American scheme of things, hence the US-India nuclear deal.
Pakistan's National Interest In this emerging security environment, Pakistan will have to be content with its role as a junior partner of India. Therefore, the sooner Islamabad extricates itself from the US "war on terror," the better it is for its security and independence. Doesn't Islamabad realize that its military operation against the militants would leave its border with India vulnerable to a New Delhi offensive? If Pakistan permits the US to attack the suspected training centers of militants on its territory, will it be able to prevent India from doing so? With Islamabad embroiled in internecine strife, it cannot negotiate with India from a position of strength. It may be forced to make a compromise that might be detrimental to its national interest. Pakistan's preoccupation with tribal rebellion would not permit it to deal with separatist ethnic forces in Baluchistan. Undoubtedly, this is a threat to the territorial integrity of Pakistan. After the total failure of the military operation in Baluchistan, the federal government has come round to the painful conclusion that political and not military action can bring militancy to an end. Granting general amnesty to the dissidents and engaging them in a meaningful dialogue on contentious issues is a laudable initiative. The same gesture should be made to the militants in the tribal areas. But Islamabad has adopted double standards in dealing with the Baluchistan militants and the Pashtun militants, as if there were good militants and bad ones. This discriminatory policy would intensify the Pashtun insurgency and might drive them toward even more escalation. The rulers have seen the consequences of military operations in the former East Pakistan, Baluchistan, Karachi, Sind, and FATA (federally administered tribal areas). If anything, the situation has only worsened. The surge of US troops, the expansion of war beyond the borders of Afghanistan, and the attacks on Quetta and Muridke as envisaged by Obama's new strategy would mean that US troops are at war with the people of Pakistan. Any Solution? The Obama Administration would be better advised to concentrate on its exit strategy, and to that end, it is imperative that it involve the UN in its peace-making efforts aimed at the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, because the Karzai Government has no legitimacy. To fill the vacuum, the UN peacekeeping force, made up of troops of states not involved in the Afghan war, may be deployed until a government of national unity is able to assume full responsibility. Here the US can contribute to the postwar reconstruction of Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN. The insurgency in the tribal region is the spillover effect of US military occupation of Afghanistan, but Pakistan faces a far greater threat: the threat of ethnic violence as manifested in the bloody clashes among various linguistic groups in urban and rural Sind. These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">THE MERE PERCEPTION OF PAKISTAN COLLAPSE LEADS TO PREEMPTIVE INDIAN ATTACK – GOES NUCLEAR</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Ricks 01</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences,” The Washington Post, 10/21, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The prospect of Pakistan being taken over by Islamic extremists is especially worrisome because it possesses nuclear weapons. The betting among military strategists is that India, another nuclear power, would not stand idly by, if it appeared that the Pakistani nuclear arsenal were about to fall into the hands of extremists. A preemptive action by India to destroy Pakistan's nuclear stockpile could provoke a new war on the subcontinent. The U.S. military has conducted more than 25 war games involving a confrontation between a nuclear-armed India and Pakistan, and each has resulted in nuclear war, said retired Air Force Col. Sam Gardiner, an expert on strategic games.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">INDOPAK NUCLEAR WAR CAUSES EXTINCTION</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Fai 01, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, 01
(Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical and distant (with India crowned with a unilateral veto power) to aggressive involvement at the vortex. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The most dangerous place on the planet is Kashmir, a disputed territory convulsed and illegally occupied for more than 53 years and sandwiched between nuclear-capable India and Pakistan. It has ignited two wars</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">between the estranged South Asian rivals in 1948 and 1965</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, and a third could trigger nuclear volleys and a nuclear winter threatening the entire globe</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">. The United States would enjoy no sanctuary. This apocalyptic vision is no idiosyncratic view.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> The Director of Central Intelligence, the Department of Defense, and world experts generally place Kashmir at the peak of their nuclear worries. Both India and Pakistan are racing like thoroughbreds to bolster their nuclear arsenals </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">and advanced delivery vehicles. Their defense budgets are climbing despite widespread misery amongst their populations. Neither country has initialed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, or indicated an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ENDING THE COIN MISSION SOLVES THROUGH DEESCALATION</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bandow 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute, former special assistant to President Reagan and the author of several books (Doug, “ Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, 10/31/09, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924) </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Most important, Pakistan seems more likely to be destabilized by an endless, escalating conflict than a Taliban advance. Islamabad's vulnerabilities are obvious, with a weak civilian government facing a complex mix of poverty, instability, insurgency, and terrorism Unfortunately, the war in neighboring Afghanistan exacerbates all of these problems. Argued Hoh: "Our presence in Afghanistan has only increased destabilization and insurgency in Pakistan." First, the war has pushed Afghan insurgents across the border. Second, cooperation with unpopular U.S. policy has reinforced the Zardari government's appearance as an American toady. Ever-rising American demands further undercut Pakistani sovereignty and increase public hostility. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">SHIFT TO COUNTERTERROR FOCUS SOLVES PAKISTAN – ALLOWS INCREASE IN DIPLOMATIC FOCUS</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kaplan, 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> – journalist and Slate contributor (Fred, “CT or COIN?Obama must choose this week between two radically different Afghanistan policies.,” Slate, 3/24, http://www.slate.com/id/2214515)

A "targeted" CT campaign, its advocates say, would at least demonstrate the West's resolve in the war on terrorism and keep al-Qaida jihadists contained. It's a type of fighting that we know how to do, and its effects are measurable. One might also argue (I don't know if anyone on the inside is doing so) that it could serve as a holding action—a way of keeping Afghanistan from plunging deeper into chaos—while we focus more intently on diplomatic measures to stabilize neighboring Pakistan. If Pakistan blows up, curing Afghanistan of its problems will be irrelevant and, in any case, impossible.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿ </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ENDING COIN REDUCES U.S. FOOTPRINT IN AFGHANISTAN AND SHORTCIRCUITS PAKISTAN INSURGENCY</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Eland 09</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow and Director of the <span style="color: black;">Center on Peace & Liberty</span> at The Independent Institute. Dr. Eland is a graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University. He has been Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (October 8, Ivan, “Fire McChrystal and Get Out of Afghanistan” <span style="color: black;">http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2633</span> )</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Because politicians are intrinsically cautious when it comes to national security, the proponents are likely to win this argument unless Americans finally face up to the question that they have avoided since 9/11: Why do radical Islamists, such as al-Qaeda, which are halfway across the world, focus their attacks on the United States? The answer is in plain sight, but it is too painful for Americans to acknowledge. Osama bin Laden has repeatedly given us his reasons—U.S. occupation of Muslim lands and support for corrupt Middle Eastern dictators. For example, in 1998, bin Laden charged that it was “an individual duty for every Muslim” to “kill the Americans” and drive their military “out of all the lands of Islam.” So the nation-building, drug-busting fiasco in Afghanistan is merely inflaming the Islamist urge to throw out the foreign occupiers. It is no coincidence that the resurgence of the Taliban is correlated with increases in the foreign military presence in Afghanistan. Furthermore, nation-building in Afghanistan has destabilized neighboring Pakistan, a country with nuclear weapons. In conclusion, the likely futile attempt to stabilize Afghanistan to prevent another safe haven for al-Qaeda is actually fueling the fires of anti-U.S. Islamist rage. Withdrawing from Afghanistan and focusing on neutralizing the real threat from al-Qaeda in Pakistan—not the Taliban—using the aforementioned techniques with a lighter footprint will give the U.S. better results.

﻿ </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">WITHDRAWAL DOWN TO A RESIDUAL COUNTERTERROR FORCE IS A POLITICAL GAME CHANGER – STOPS THE RISE OF THE TALIBAN</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Dorronsoro 09</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> -</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This three-zone strategy is not, //per se,// a gamechanger, and it must be accompanied by an incremental, phased withdrawal. The withdrawal would not be a consequence of “stabilization,” but rather an essential part of the process. Since the presence of foreign troops is the <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">most important factor</span> in mobilizing support for the Taliban, the beginning of the withdrawal would change the political game on two levels. First, Jihad would become a motivation for fewer Afghans; instead, the conflict would be mostly seen as a civil war. Second, the pro-government population (or, more exactly, the anti-Taliban one) would rally together because of fear of a Taliban victory. <span style="color: #002561;">Why Withdraw the Combat Troops ? Reframing the War </span>
There is an argument against withdrawing combat troops: namely, that al-Qaeda would retain its sanctuary in Afghanistan because the Afghan state would not have control of some parts of the country, especially in the east. Though superficially compelling, this argument is weak for two reasons. First, the international coalition lacks the resources to control the periphery of the Afghan territory anyway. Second, the withdrawal of combat troops does not preclude targeted operations with the agreement of the Kabul government. So, in terms of physical security, the withdrawal of combat troops does not bring clear gains for al-Qaeda. There are two important reasons for withdrawal. First, the mere presence of foreign soldiers fighting a war in Afghanistan is probably the single most important factor in the resurgence of the Taliban. The convergence of nationalism and Jihad has aided the Taliban in extending its influence. It is sometimes frightening to see how similar NATO military operations are to Soviet ones in the 1980s and how the similarities could affect the perceptions of the population. The majority of Afghans are now deeply opposed to the foreign troops on their soil. The idea that one can “stabilize” Afghanistan with more troops goes against all that one should have learned from the Soviet war. The real issue is not to “stabilize” but to create a new dynamic. The Taliban have successfully framed the war as a Jihad and a liberation war against (non-Muslim) foreign armies. The concrete consequence of this moral victory is that the movement has been able to gain ground in non-Pashtun areas. The situations in Badghris Province (northwest) and in Badakhshan Province (northeast) are extremely worrisome, because the Taliban have been able to attract the support of some Pashtun tribes and fundamentalist networks. A province like Wardak, initially opposed to the Taliban in the 1990s, is now one of its strongholds. Insecurity bred by the narcotics trade and the infighting of local groups in the north also provides the Taliban opportunities to find new allies on a more practical, rather than ideological, ground. This trend is extraordinarily dangerous, since the spread of the war geographically would put Western countries in an untenable position. Second, withdrawal would create a new dynamic in the country, providing two main benefits. The momentum of the Taliban would slow or stop altogether, because without a foreign occupier the Jihadist and nationalist feelings of the population would be much more difficult to mobilize. Furthermore, the Karzai regime would gain legitimacy. If Karzai (or his successor) receives enough help from the international coalition, he would be able to develop more centralized institutions in the strategic areas or at least keep local actors under control. The regime would remain corrupt but would appear more legitimate if it succeeded in bringing security to the population in the strategic zones without the help of foreign troops. The support of the urban population, which opposes the Taliban, is a critical issue. Corruption is a problem primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.

﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ADVANTAGE TWO IS DIPLOMACY</span>**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">AFGHANISTAN STALEMATE LIMITS OBAMA’S ABILITY TO REORIENT FOREIGN POLICY TOWARDS EFFECTIVE DIPLOMACY
Fernholz, 10 – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress

*** Obama's tinkering around the edges -- the timeline, the counterinsurgency strategy, the emphasis on development, the whole-of-government approach -- marks a real departure from the previous administration's efforts. His rhetoric still holds the promise of the overhaul he campaigned on. But the president's failure to fundamentally reorient the Afghan conflict has broad ramifications for his promised foreign-policy reforms. Perhaps the most significant loss is the big picture. Nearly 100,000 troops are committed to pursuing Obama's "narrow goal" of defeating al-Qaeda in Afghanistan. But is this extensive involvement in an Afghan civil war the best way to fight al-Qaeda and like-minded groups? After all, one of al-Qaeda leaders' stated goals is drawing the United States into expensive and intractable long-term conflicts. Even as we're leaving Iraq, doubling-down on Afghanistan plays into their hands. "We did not ask for this fight," the president said in a major speech on Afghanistan in December. "On September 11, 2001, 19 men hijacked four airplanes and used them to murder nearly 3,000 people." It was an explanation straight out of the Bush era. Much of the 9-11 operation was carried out not in Afghanistan or Pakistan (or Iraq, for that matter) but in places like Germany and Florida. And terrorism experts warn that officials should not take for granted that al-Qaeda could re-establish a safe haven in Afghanistan, or that such safe havens are threats to the United States. The administration admits that fewer than 100 al-Qaeda terrorists remain in Afghanistan -- and that many insurgents aren't ideological opponents of the United States. Some are petty criminals, some are simply armed local groups tired of being pushed around by the central government, and others fight merely for pay. (The U.S. was embarrassed to find out in December that the Taliban paid its fighters more than the Afghan National Army paid its soldiers.) Many of these insurgents are angry at the U.S. simply because we're there. "The importance of a people not wanting to be occupied cannot be underestimated," says Matthew Hoh, a former Foreign Service officer who was the first person to resign a government post in protest of U.S. strategy in Afghanistan. "National will or ethnic will cannot be downplayed or misunderstood or denied." Meanwhile, the transnational terrorists we're supposedly fighting don't need bases in Afghanistan and Pakistan to attack us. Officials concede that safe havens in other failed or failing states must be pressed as well. Just weeks after Obama announced his strategy, a Nigerian man obtained explosives from an al-Qaeda affiliate in Yemen -- which, along with places like Pakistan, Algeria, and Somalia, provides a "safe haven" for the group -- and attempted to destroy an international flight as it landed in Detroit. U.S. intelligence agencies, despite having some relevant information, didn't act in time to prevent the bomber from getting on the flight. Perhaps the billions of dollars dedicated to the new troops in Afghanistan would be better served fixing structural failures in intelligence-gathering. Instead, we're seeing the considerable militarization of intelligence-gathering. After a suicide bomber killed seven Central Intelligence Agency employees in Afghanistan, CIA Director Leon Panetta wrote that "like our military, CIA officers are on the front lines against al-Qaeda and its violent allies." The officers were stationed there to manage a drone program that hunts terrorists in the mountains of Afghanistan and Pakistan. While fighting terrorists requires both intelligence-gathering and the kind of targeted strikes the CIA performs, there is a clear imbalance when a camp in Afghanistan has dozens of CIA employees but the National Counterterrorism Center has only eight or nine Middle East analysts. The focus on troops has also hampered Obama's goal of placing equal emphasis on civilian and military aspects of our foreign policy. The military, which has increasingly become America's primary presence abroad, is resisting the attempt to narrow the focus of the war. Despite the White House's goal of training just over 200,000 Afghan soldiers and police, Pentagon officials plan to train 400,000. And Holbrooke, intended to be the civilian counterpart to Petraeus, has seen his influence diminish commensurate with his lack of resources. Though his office is still an important center of coordination, he plays a smaller-than-expected role in the White House-driven decision-making process. Obama's foreign-policy vision professed a need to address the root causes of conflict by building up local infrastructure and actively fostering better lives for people in places like Afghanistan. Despite a consensus -- which even includes Defense Secretary Robert Gates -- that civilian development, medical access, and agricultural expertise are critical to counterinsurgency, the administration's budget request in March reflected a heavy emphasis on defense over development. Ambassador Eikenberry protested in a cable to Washington, asking for an additional $2.5 billion -- 60 percent more than he had been given. The military was receiving $68 billion. Even if civilian efforts were given more resources, overhauling the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to make them more effective remains a challenge -- despite the fact that the State Department created a position to do just that. Although the administration expects to have 974 civilians on the ground by early 2010, beating a goal it set in March, this is a drop in the bucket: Afghanistan has a population of 28 million. Reports show a deep frustration from U.S. officials working on development projects, because they are almost entirely dependent on the military. Indeed, despite the growing acceptance of the need for civilian expertise, the military often finds itself trying to do the work of civilian agencies that aren't set up to operate in a war zone. "We're in a 'build the airplane while you're flying it' kind of situation," Hurlburt says. "If the effort to produce a better, much more energetic and smartly focused civilian effort in Afghanistan succeeds, it will become the template for broader reform of the institutions." That template could be useful, Hurlburt adds, or it could be detrimental, since the lessons U.S. development officers learn in Afghanistan may not apply so well to countries that need U.S. help but aren't in the middle of a war.** </span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">COIN IS A VORTEX FOR US DIPLOMACY – KILLS LEVERAGE </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Robert Haddick , Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, 2010 (“This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25th, Available Online athttp://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex , Accessed 10/28/10)// </span>**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for both the United States military and for the country's national security policies. In addition to the financial and human toll (80 ISAF soldiers have died so far this month), Afghanistan is imposing other costs on the U.S. military, on U.S. defense planning, and on America's diplomatic leverage around the world. When assessing the benefits to be achieved by the Afghan campaign, these costs also merit consideration. The administration and its military advisers have chosen a manpower-intensive counterinsurgency strategy for Afghanistan. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and a long list of officials have expressed their concerns about the implications of repeated deployments for the all-volunteer force. Afghanistan also seems to chew up generals. Gen. David McKiernan was replaced out of frustration with a lack of progress. The same frustration, expressing itself in behind-the-scenes contempt and bickering, brought down Gen. Stanley McChrystal. Now Petraeus has been recalled from a depleted bench. This move has its price. After jumping into the Afghan vortex, Petraeus will leave behind his critical duties at Central Command, which include diplomacy across the Middle East and Central Asia, the containment of Iran, and supervising the endgame in Iraq. The administration has yet to announce who, if anyone, will replace Petraeus at Centcom. The Afghan vortex has implications for defense planning elsewhere in the world. In a speech he delivered to the Navy League in May, Gates said that the costs of rehabilitating the Army and Marine Corps, combined with the ground force's long term manpower and family support costs, will mean that the Navy will see no increases in its budget. The secretary general of Japan's ruling party recently argued that U.S. naval power is in decline and that Japan needs to adjust its maritime security policy accordingly. When that view spreads throughout Asia, an arms race will be inevitable. The deepening commitment has forced the U.S. government into the position of pleading for favors from Pakistan and Russia in order to open new supply lines to the growing army in Afghanistan. The price has been to forfeit diplomatic leverage with implications for U.S. relations in Europe, India, and China. </span>//**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">COIN SHREDS FOREIGN POLICY COHERENCE—ESPECIALLY RESOURCES FOR DIPLOMACY AND CLIMATE CHANGE </span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html) </span>//**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals. In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies." But the military commitment endorsed by President Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making stabilization in Afghanistan and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban the President's top priority. For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced. But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed. And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies? Finally, Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention and political capital to other foreign policy matters, whether it's pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront the Iranian nuclear program or hammering out international agreements on climate change and trade. It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder. But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President. </span>//**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">THE ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY DEPLOY DIPLOMATIC ASSETS IS KEY TO STOP WARMING </span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hague 9/27 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10) </span>//**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate. I look forward to working with the US administration and the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth. A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China’s Low Carbon Pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people - so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity. It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximise the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape the global low-carbon market. In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low-carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per capita emissions could soon eclipse those of the EU. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain. The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high growth low carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable sources, are rising to that challenge. India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 Gigawatts of solar power by 2022. South Africa, a coal dependent economy the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business as usual development pathway. The opportunity is for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the “high carbon lock-in” we see in the developed world: a new sustainable pathway to prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist’s pipe-dream but a 21st century realist’s imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a P5 member, I am determined that the UK will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest. Collectively we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea level rises and El Niño-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small islands states is under threat. We have a shared vision to meet the millennium development goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream. The effort of the last ten years will be wasted. Conclusion Climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the UN is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low carbon transition. We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge. We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now that there will never be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armoury until we have shaped that global consensus. A successful response to climate change will not only stabilise the climate but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the UN. Failure will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous. This is not a hard choice. We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. If we do not, our world will determine our destiny. </span>//**


**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WARMING KILLS BILLIONS AND RISKS EXTINCTION </span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Cummins and Allen ‘10 (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6) </span>//**

**//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as James Hansen are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions by 20-40% as soon as possible, and 80-90% by the year 2050, if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels. Either we radically reduce CO2 and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution, or else survival for the present and future generations is in jeopardy. As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the carrying capacity of the Earth in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people. Under this hellish scenario, billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. </span>//**

</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">

</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ADVANTAGE THREE IS OVERSTRETCH</span>



<span style="border-bottom: #2e3237 2.25pt solid; border-left: medium none; border-right: medium none; border-top: medium none; display: block; padding-bottom: 8pt; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in 0in 11.25pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">WAR PROBABLE WITH PROVOCATIONS AND SOKO SUPPORT OF MILITARY RETALIATION
Foreign Policy 12/16, Andrei Lankov (“How to Stop the Next Korean War” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/12/16/how_to_stop_the_next_korean_war)

For the first time in decades, a new war on the Korean peninsula appears to be a distinct probability. Not only does North Korea's regime seem determined to escalate its provocations, but the air has also changed in South Korea, where society is in an unusually bellicose mood nowadays. After North Korean artillery stunned the world by shelling the island of Yeonpyeong last month, killing four and wounding 20, South Korean generals are talking unusually tough. For example, Gen. Han Min-koo, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently promised that in case of another North Korean attack, his forces "will completely crush the enemy." This talk is what the Seoul street wants to hear. In a recent poll, 80 percent of South Koreans said they would support a military retaliation in the event of a fresh North Korean attack. Only six months ago, when a North Korean torpedo sank a South Korean warship, killing 46 sailors, merely 30 percent favored a military option. Alas, this shift is not good news, for the hard truth is that restraint is the only option for South Korea. At best, military retaliation would merely be harmful. At worst, it will lead to disaster.</span></span>

</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE SINKING OF THE CHEONAN MADE CONFLICT INEVITABLE IN KOREA AND THE US WOULD BE DRAWN IN</span></span></span>
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Bandow, 10 – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html, JMP)</span></span></span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">It has been weeks since the South Korean ship Cheonan sank in the Yellow Sea near the disputed boundary between South and North Korea. As yet the cause is unknown--some government critics suspect a cover-up--but after raising the wreck South Korean officials said the explosion appeared to be external. Which implicates Pyongyang. If the cause was a mine, a North-South confrontation still could be avoided. The mine might have been left over from the Korean War. Or if of more modern vintage it could have broken loose from its moorings. If a torpedo was used, however, the threat of conflict rises. The Republic of Korea could not easily ignore a North Korean submarine stalking and sinking one of its vessels. Seoul has promised "a firm response," though, argues Han Sung-joo, a former ROK foreign minister and U.S. ambassador, "that doesn't mean a military reaction or an eye-for-eye response." In fact, the South did not retaliate after earlier provocations, such as the terrorist bombing of a South Korean airliner and assassination attempt against former president Chun Doo-hwan which killed 16 ROK officials. A military reprisal then could have triggered a full-scale war. Responding in kind this time also could spark a dangerous escalatory spiral with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. However, Seoul has spent the last decade attempting to pacify the DPRK, providing aid, allowing investment, and hosting summits. To do nothing would seem to be abject appeasement, undermining ROK credibility and encouraging the North to act even more recklessly in the future. If the word "firm" has any meaning, the South Korean government would have to do more than protest. Still, the decision, though difficult, shouldn't concern the U.S. The South has gone from an authoritarian economic wreck to a democratic economic powerhouse. With a vastly bigger and more sophisticated economy, larger population, and greater access to international markets and support than the North, Seoul long has been able to defend itself. Pyongyang retains a numerical military edge, but its weapons are old, troops are undertrained, and industrial base is shrinking. Thus, the South should be able to decide on the action that best advances its security. However, Seoul long chose to emphasize economic development over military preparedness. As a result, the ROK remains dependent on America. Some 27,000 U.S. personnel are stationed in the South. The U.S. retains formal command of all forces, American and South Korean, during a war. Seoul expects substantial U.S. air and naval support and ground reinforcement in the event of war. Which means that ROK retaliation against the DPRK would draw the U.S. into any conflict. So Washington cannot help but pressure South Korean decision-makers to act in accord with American as well as ROK interests. In fact, that's what happened in 1983, when the U.S. insisted that Seoul not retaliate militarily after the bombing attack on President Chun. The current situation also means that the destiny of America is essentially controlled by the North's Kim Jong-il. Ordering an attack on a South Korean ship could end up forcing Washington to go to war. Although the bilateral U.S.-South Korean defense treaty does not make American intervention automatic, it is unimaginable that an American administration would stand aside in a conflict. This is a ludicrous position for both the U.S. and South Korea, six decades after Washington saved a far weaker ROK from a North Korean invasion in the midst of the Cold War. Neither country is well-served by Seoul's continuing defense dependency on America. Unfortunately, the policy incongruities only are likely to worsen. The ROK desires to wield increasing influence beyond its own shores. While relying on American military forces to defend its homeland, the South Korean government is crafting its navy for more distant contingencies and deploying ground personnel in the Middle East and Central Asia. Yet Seoul found that when the enemy struck at home, assuming the Cheonan was sunk by the North, the South Korean military was ill-prepared to defend its own personnel.</span></span></span>**


**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">NORTH KOREAN AGGRESSION AND NUCLEARIZATION CAUSES NUCLEAR CONFLICT, KILLS ENVIRONMENT AND ECON AND SPILLS OVER</span></span></span>**
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND </span></span></span>**Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to tackle the multiple, interconnected global challenges facing humanity, not least of which is the increasing proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. Korea and Northeast Asia are instances where risks of nuclear proliferation and actual nuclear use arguably have increased in recent years. This negative trend is a product of continued US nuclear threat projection against the DPRK as part of a general program of coercive diplomacy in this region, North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, the breakdown in the Chinese-hosted Six Party Talks towards the end of the Bush Administration, regional concerns over China’s increasing military power, and concerns within some quarters in regional states (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan) about whether US extended deterrence (“nuclear umbrella”) afforded under bilateral security treaties can be relied upon for protection. The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">WAR SOLVES – IT’S COMPARATIVELY BETTER THAN DIPLOMACY</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ayson & Taylor, 04 – Professor of Strategic Studies and directs the Centre for Strategic Studies, AND * lecturer in the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre, Australian National University (Robert Ayson and Brendan Taylor, Comparative Strategy, “Attacking North Korea: Why War Might Be Preferred,” 23:263–279)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Conclusions The logic of the status quo—the continuing oscillation between alarm over North Korea’s nuclear ambitions and attempts to dampen them through measures short of war—is less robust than some might think. Even if the US ultimately decides against forced regime change as a means to resolve the North Korean nuclear crisis, the resilience of arguments advocating this line could still adversely affect both the negotiation and subsequent implementation of any preferred diplomatic alternative. There is no doubt that any major attack on North Korea by the United States would have very serious consequences, not least for neighboring South Korea. Even if the advocates of forced regime change can get a consensus in the Oval Office, the job of persuading Seoul that their’s is the preferred option would be a truly formidable one. There is every chance of a very serious loss of life, and major infrastructural damage on both sides of the demilitarized zone. Some sort of catastrophic retaliation from the North, including the potential use of weapons of mass destruction, cannot be ruled out. The longer-term diplomatic consequences of the deliberate use of force which would face the United States could harm its regional relations and global image in very significant ways. But all of these become less convincing arguments for avoiding war on the peninsula at any cost, when “any cost” consists of the types of alternatives which are seen as even less acceptable than conflict. It is certainly possible that the latest diplomatic approaches will come to be seen as failures in dealing with North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, (and there are some in the Bush Administration who seem to be expecting them to fail).50 In such a case, the costs of going to war may not look so bad as the dangers of living with an increasingly nuclearized North Asian rogue state that continues to defy the international community. Hence advocates of the use of force will not need to demonstrate that their option is a particularly good, let alone optimal, one. Instead in a world of bad options, the least-worst is king. And as time goes on, the use of force to precipitate regime change may increasingly look like the least-worst option. Unless the current diplomatic initiatives produce the sort of permanent and satisfactory result which is rather unheard of in relations with North Korea, they will be seen as playing for time when there is precious little time to be played with. The problem, advocates of an attack may well argue, is not so much with North Korea’s nuclear weapons program itself, but with the regime which is behind the program. Without a change in that regime, there is no way of achieving any semblance of long-term security on and with the peninsula. And the only way for regime change in any reasonable timeframe is for it to be achieved through the use of force. At the same time, the major use of force will present opportunities to degrade North Korea’s WMD capabilities in the sort of direct ways that negotiation, verification and even coercion have so far been unable to deliver. This is not to say that the deliberate use of force to change the regime is the most likely course of events. The chance of such an attack being ordered in the next few years is perhaps something between 10% and 30%. But a one in three chance, or even a one in ten chance, is worth taking very seriously indeed in light of what is at stake. After five decades of stalemate on the Korean peninsula and in light of the potential consequences of the deliberate use of force, it is all too easy for analysts to regard the attack option as both unlikely and irrational. But in an imperfect world of ugly choices, forced regime change may come to be seen as increasingly plausible by key decision-makers in Washington. The world needs therefore to prepare for the possibility of a deliberate and very major attack on North Korea.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">GROUND TROOPS ARE KEY</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Blumenthal, 05 - a resident fellow at AEI (July 2005, Dan, “Facing a Nuclear North Korea,” http://www.aei.org/outlook/22817)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Forceful regime change is even less attractive. It cannot be done through airpower alone--any such strategy would require a substantial commitment of ground troops for combat operations, securing weapons sites, and stabilization operations. Leaving aside the strain on a U.S. military that does not have enough ground troops for its current missions, such a strategy would require active South Korean support, which is highly unlikely. In addition, defense planners cannot rule out the possibility that China would meet its treaty obligations to assist in the defense of North Korea.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">AFGHAN WITHDRAWAL SOLVES URGENT OVERSTRETCH – CAN’T WAIT UNTIL 2011</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Friedman, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">There is an anomaly in this strategy, however. Where the United States previously had devolved operational responsibility to allied groups, or simply hunkered down, this strategy tries to return to devolved responsibilities by first surging U.S. operations. The fourth phase actually increases U.S. operational responsibility in order to reduce it. From <span style="color: black;">the grand strategic point of view</span>, the United States needs to withdraw from Afghanistan, a landlocked country where U.S. forces are dependent on tortuous supply lines. Whatever <span style="color: black;">Afghanistan’s vast mineral riches</span>, mining them in the midst of war is not going to happen. More important, the United States is overcommitted in the region and lacks a strategic reserve of ground forces. Afghanistan ultimately is not strategically essential, and this is why the United States has not historically used its own forces there.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Obama’s attempt to return to that track after first increasing U.S. forces to set the stage for the political settlement that will allow a U.S. withdrawal is hampered by the need to begin terminating the operation by 2011 (although there is no fixed termination date). It will be difficult to draw coalition partners into local structures when the foundation — U.S. protection — is withdrawing. Strengthening local forces by 2011 will be difficult. Moreover, <span style="color: black;">the Taliban’s motivation</span> to enter into talks is limited by the early withdrawal. At the same time, with no ground combat strategic reserve, the United States is vulnerable elsewhere in the world, and the longer the Afghan drawdown takes, the more vulnerable it becomes (hence the 2011 deadline in Obama’s war plan). In sum, this is the quandary inherent in the strategy: It is necessary to withdraw as early as possible, but early withdrawal undermines both coalition building and negotiations. The recruitment and use of indigenous Afghan forces must move extremely rapidly to hit the deadline (though officially on track quantitatively, there are serious questions about qualitative measures) — hence, the aggressive operations that have been mounted over recent months. But the correlation of forces is such that the United States probably will not be able to impose an acceptable political reality in the time frame available. Thus, Afghan President Hamid Karzai is said to be opening channels directly to the Taliban, while the Pakistanis are increasing their presence. Where a vacuum is created, regardless of how much activity there is, someone will fill it. Therefore, the problem is to define how important Afghanistan is to American global strategy, bearing in mind that the forces absorbed in Iraq and Afghanistan have left the United States vulnerable elsewhere in the world. The current strategy defines the Islamic world as the focus of all U.S. military attention. But the world has rarely been so considerate as to wait until the United States is finished with one war before starting another. Though unknowns remain unknowable, a principle of warfare is to never commit all of your reserves in a battle — one should always maintain a reserve for the unexpected. Strategically, it is imperative that the United States begin to free up forces and re-establish its ground reserves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿</span>

NEXT IS FRAMEWORK:

OUR INTERPRETATION IS THAT THE AFF MUST DEFEND A TOPICAL POLICY ACTION AND THE NEGATIVE MUST DEFEND THE STATUS QUO OR A COMPETITIVE POLICY ALTERNATIVE. THIS IS GOOD FOR

A) EDUCATION— DEBATES ABOUT MAJOR REAL-WORLD ISSUES ALLOW US TO HAVE INFLUENCE IN DECISIONS WITH LIFE-OR DEATH IMPLICATIONS.
Walt 91 – Walt, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard, 1991 (Stephen, “The Renaissance of Security Studies”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 35, No. 2 (Jun., 1991), pp. 211-239, JSTOR)

A second norm is relevance, a belief that even highly abstract lines of inquiry should be guided by the goal of solving real-world problems. Because the value of a given approach may not be apparent at the beginning-game theory is an obvious example-we cannot insist that a new approach be immediately applicable to a specific research puzzle. On the whole, however, the belief that scholarship in security affairs should be linked to real-world issues has prevented the field from degenerating into self-indulgent intellectualizing. And from the Golden Age to the present, security studies has probably had more real-world impact, for good or ill, than most areas of social science. Finally, the renaissance of security studies has been guided by a commitment to democratic discourse. Rather than confining discussion of security issues to an elite group of the best and brightest, scholars in the renaissance have generally welcomed a more fully informed debate. To paraphrase Clemenceau, issues of war and peace are too important to be left solely to insiders with a vested interest in the outcome. The growth of security studies within universities is one sign of broader participation, along with increased availability of information and more accessible publications for interested citizens. Although this view is by no means universal, the renaissance of security studies has been shaped by the belief that a well-informed debate is the best way to avoid the disasters that are likely when national policy is monopolized by a few self-interested parties.

B) FAIRNESS—KEY TO CHECK MOVING TARGETS AND PREVENT THE NEG FROM MOOTING THE 1AC.

C) AFF CHOICE- THE AFF SPEAKS FIRST- THEY SHOULD SET THE FRAME OF THE DEBATE, KEY TO FAIRNESS- THEY CAN CHOOSE THE DEBATE HALF THE TIME.


=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>= 
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Sections BMD 1AC</span>__</span>= 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> ADVANTAGE ONE IS MIRVS</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">MOST RECENT REPORTS SHOW CHINA IS DEVELOPING MIRVS – BUT NO DEPLOYMENT YET</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Hoar 9-28</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(William, China Embraces U.S. Debt and Technology, The New American, http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/reviews/903-correction-please/4704-china-embraces-us-debt-and-technology)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Pentagon report also notes that Beijing has been modernizing its nuclear forces by adding systems that make them more survivable. For example, says the report, the road-mobile, solid-propellant “DF-31 and DF-31A intercontinental range ballistic missiles (ICBM) have entered service. The DF-31A, with a range in excess of 11,200 km, can reach most locations within the continental United States (CONUS). China may also be developing a new road-mobile ICBM, possibly capable of carrying a multiple independently targeted re-entry vehicle (MIRV).” What the Department of Defense report most emphatically does not say is where that DF-31 technology came from, although it is hardly a secret: the U.S. of A. Even the warheads now on Chinese nuclear weapons are believed to be derived from espionage directed at this country and our systems. Author Bill Gertz pointed out in The China Threat a full decade ago how Lockheed scientists had earlier traveled to China to help out the communists with problems they were having with rocket motor failures. As Gertz wrote: Solid rocket technology — like other technical assistance Lockheed supplied the Chinese — is critical in helping the Chinese develop multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles, or MIRVs. The rockets can be adapted to guide clusters of nuclear warheads launched on a single missile. As the Cox Committee stated, China has threatened to “MIRV” its warheads in response to U.S. national missile defenses. So far, China has not deployed MIRVs on its current nuclear arsenal but has shown the capability of adding up to three warheads on its new DF-31 truck mobile intercontinental ballistic missile. The DF-31 was flight tested for the first time in 1999 with “penetration aids” — dummy warheads designed to fool missile defenses. These used “kick motors,” another technology on which Lockheed provided assistance.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ONGOING U.S. BMD DEVELOPMENT IS THE UNIQUE CAUSE</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">LaBauve 09 (“China and Japan’s Strategic Nuclear Relationship,” Jeffrey, Lt., US Navy, BA Tulane, Master’s Thesis, Naval Postgraduate School, http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2009/Sep/09Sep_LaBauve.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">These recent changes to China’s nuclear forces have resulted in some internal Chinese discussion about the future of their nuclear strategy. Medieros offers a few possibilities for changes in future Chinese nuclear strategy from offering conditions to the “no first use” pledge to development of MIRV warheads or explicit adoption of launch doctrines such as “launch on warning” or “launch under attack.” However, these improvements seem to be in response to the development of BMD and not a response to the U.S. Strategic Command’s implementation of Global Strike or other U.S. nuclear improvements. The Chinese are determined to maintain an underlying policy of minimum deterrence. Many Chinese analysts note that it is counterproductive to counter BMDs with a large force buildup and that believe China should focus on increasing the survivability of the Chinese ICBM force and augmenting those ICBMs with penetration aids. The Chinese ultimately desire to maintain a doctrinal status quo by slowly increasing its nuclear capability and the survivability of its current nuclear forces</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">MIRVS CAUSE SINO-CHINA WAR – ENABLES FIRST STRIKE, UNDERMINES STRATEGIC STABILITY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fravel and Medeiros 10 </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Taylor, Professor of Political Science, Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation until August 2009, and is currently the director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolian Affairs at the National Security Council, China’s Search for Assured Retaliation The Evolution of Chinese Nuclear Strategy and Force Structure, Fall, International Security, Muse)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Looking forward, this situation suggests that two aspects of modernization should be monitored, as they might signal a change in China’s nuclear posture. First, in response to missile defense programs in the United States and other countries, the Second Artillery is researching and developing a variety of technologies to defeat such systems, including maneuvering reentry vehicles (MaRVs), multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles (MIRVs), decoys, chaff, jamming, thermal shielding, and ASAT weapons.131 If deployed, MaRV and MIRV warheads could affect China’s strategic relationships with other nuclear powers by increasing the options available to China for using its nuclear weapons, including providing it with additional options against smaller nuclear powers such as India. This shift could undermine strategic stability in China’s relationships with India and Russia because MIRV’d missiles, in particular, have a first-strike potential. Arming the silo-based missiles such as the DF-5 with MIRV’d warheads might also further undermine crisis stability by presenting a potentially vulnerable target for an opponent’s first strike against China.132</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CHINA AND INDIA ARE ON THE BRINK – TIBET, CHINA SUPPORT FOR PAKISTAN, CANCELING OF DEFENSE TALKS PROVE</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Economist 12-16 (“pushing back,” http://www.economist.com/node/17732947)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ms Rao was responding to the ambassador’s dark warning that criticism of China during a rare visit by Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, to India between December 15th and 17th, could threaten “fragile” bilateral ties. He added that these would be “difficult to repair” if broken. India’s leaders are not in a mood to listen. In Delhi a few hundred Tibetans were left to demonstrate against Mr Wen as he arrived. More striking, the Dalai Lama, their spiritual leader, embarked at the same time on an eight-day trip to Sikkim, a north-eastern state on the border with Chinese-run Tibet. That excursion, like one last year to Arunachal Pradesh—Indian territory claimed by China as “south Tibet”—seemed designed to arouse Chinese ire. China has certainly been doing its bit to provoke the ire of the Indians. It reportedly sent several thousand soldiers to parts of Pakistani-controlled Kashmir this year, to build roads for its “all-weather” ally. It has denied visas (other than ones stapled to passports) to Indian Kashmiris and to a general responsible for Kashmir, a hint that it might not respect Indian control of the territory. India has responded by suspending regular bilateral defence meetings. But Omar Abdullah, the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, suggests going further. “Why should India have a one-China policy, when China doesn’t have a one-India policy?” he asks. “What if we started stapling passports from Tibet?” Though this is never likely to be adopted as policy by the government in Delhi, the very suggestion would make China furious. The Indians’ increasingly strong ties with America are bolstering their confidence in dealing with China. President Barack Obama visited Delhi a month ago and earned much goodwill by offering hearty support for India’s bid for permanent membership of the UN Security Council (China is distinctly lukewarm). This cosying up between India and America makes China all the more prickly.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">EXTINCTION</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Sethi 09 (Manpreet Sethi, December 2009, NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN SECOND TIER NUCLEAR WEAPON STATES: A CASE STUDY OF INDIA, Dr. Manpreet Sethi is Fellow, International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. She is also Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, where she heads the Nuclear Security project. She completed her Ph. D from School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi in 1997 and was on the research faculty of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi from 1997-2001.http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The first factor that is deemed to heighten nuclear dangers in the case of the two dyads under study is geographical proximity and a history of conflict. Located next to one another and sharing disputed boundaries, it is feared that any major breakout of conventional hostilities between India-Pakistan or India-China could increase the pressures for a pre-emptive strike or a nuclear attack being launched without proper confirmation. Moreover, since the missile flight times would only be between 8-13 minutes for missile ranges of 600-2000 kms, it would not allow either side to even use the hotline (assuming these were functional) to confirm the veracity (deliberate or accidental) or nature (conventional or nuclear) of launch. Haunted by the thought that the country that waited to use its nuclear assets might end up losing them to a disarming first strike would cause near immediate nuclear retaliation engulfing the nations in a mindless nuclear exchange. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ADVANTAGE TWO IS CHINESE SOCIETY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">THIS YEAR IS KEY FOR CHINESE LEADERSHIP – DIVIDE BETWEEN PLA HARDLINERS AND PRO-AMERICAN FOREIGN OFFICE</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Raman 10-15 </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">B, Additional Secretary (retd), Cabinet Secretariat, Govt. of India, New Delhi, and, presently, Director, Institute For Topical Studies,http://www.srilankaguardian.org/2010/10/chinese-attitude-to-us-trust-distrust.html</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">One has been seeing a trust-distrust syndrome in Sino-US relations since the beginning of this year. The People's Liberation Army (PLA), particularly the new generation of younger officers who are rising to positions of senior leadership in the military hierarchy, continues to show signs of distrust of the US. This is particularly so in the Navy. In other segments of the Chinese strategic community such as the Foreign Office, the various economic ministries and scientific establishments the distrust of the US is not that pronounced. In fact, these non-military elements in the strategic community seem to be keen to keep the present level of co-operation with the US and even increase it. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">PLAN RESTRAINS THE PLA HAWKS – TRANSFORMS RELATIONSHIP INTO COOPERATION</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Cronin et al 99 </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Patrick, Director of Studies at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, The U.S.-Japan alliance: past, present, and future, Google Book</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The most vociferous opposition to TMD cooperation with Japan comes from those concerned about its impact on Sino-U.S. relations. Some China experts and arms control advocates argue that a U.S.-Japan decision to develop TMD would cause the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to incorporate into its long-range multiple-independently-targeted-vehicle (MIRV) warheads capability, and submunitions into short- and medium-range ballistic missiles, thereby escalating vertically from a strategy of minimum deterrence to a more threatening one of limited deterrence. Moreover, they point out that TMD would set both Japan and the United States on a collision course with Beijing that would undermine their broader strategic objectives for integrating China into the regional and global community of nations. Beijing has reinforced these concerns with its active and vocal opposition to TMD. Some opponents of TMD advocate an approach to Beijing that would instead be based on arms control and confidence-building measures, because this would strengthen China’s burgeoning arms control community and constrain hawks in the PLA. Ultimately, there is a fundamental difference between a China that aspires to work within the boundaries of the international community and a pariah regime operating outside such constraints. As China builds a role in the maintenance of global arms control regimes, the United States and Japan will have a stronger basis for confidence-building with Beijing related to TMD.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">HARDLINERS DERAIL HU’S ECONOMIC AGENDA – U.S. BMD EMPOWERS CONSERVATIVES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Stratfor 05</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Stratfor Strategic Forecasting, November 8th, “China’s Obsession with the Zoellick Speech,” Subscription</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">As China’s leadership prepares to implement a new five-year plan calling for the harmonization of society — the equalization of economic benefits and prosperity derived from nationwide growth — it is hoping for a stable international environment that would allow Beijing more securely to focus its attentions inward. The United States will play a role critical to the provision of this stability, and Beijing’s top minds are pondering what they believe represents a key insight into U.S. strategic thinking vis-a-vis China: the text of a Sept. 21 speech by U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick. Analysis China’s National People’s Congress (NPC) will meet in March 2006 when, among other things, it will probably approve China’s 11th five-year plan for economic growth. The plan, the first overseen by President Hu Jintao, enshrines Hu’s so-called “harmonious society” as a key goal. In essence, it promotes a massive redistribution of wealth in China in order to narrow the gaps between rich and poor, urban and rural, and between various regions of China. Such a plan is ambitious to say the least, and fraught with difficulties. Nevertheless, in order to address the growing problems caused by widening wealth gaps, population migration and rising unemployment, Beijing feels it imperative to take extreme measures to avoid social meltdown. This “Robin Hood” economic plan, however, will take money, resources and opportunities from the more well-off segments of society and transfer them to those heretofore left behind. As an Oct. 27 commentary in the official People’s Daily bluntly stated, “New reforms will affect the vested interests of certain social strata and certain regions, which means the redistribution of social wealth. Some prices must be paid for lasting peace and stability and for real harmony of society.” Given the likelihood that those “vested interests” are unlikely to sacrifice their privileges quietly, Beijing faces a showdown with local and regional governments, Communist Party officials, businessmen, and even the emergent Chinese middle class. Thus, as China prepares for changes that could spark massive internal upheaval, it is seeking a peaceful international environment — one allowing it effectively to focus its attention inward, without too much risk of exploitation or external pressure. With this in mind, Beijing is looking first toward the United States. Relations between China and the United States shifted quickly after the Sept. 11 attacks — from a diplomatic and military showdown, as a U.S. reconnaissance plane sat on a runway on China’s island of Hainan, to the relative benign neglect of Chinese issues by Washington. This peaceful pause allowed China’s leaders to carry out a transition of leadership from Jiang Zemin and the so-called third-generation leaders to Hu Jintao and the fourth-generation leaders. This marked more than a simple generational shift, however; it also marked the evolution of Chinese economic, security and international policies. On the economic front, Jiang and many of his comrades supported the continuation of the “growth for the sake of growth” policies of the past, characterized by the acceptance that economic growth was not equal and the belief that high levels of growth were necessary to keep China from slipping into social chaos. This view held that anything shy of around 8.5 percent to 9.5 percent growth would not even maintain China’s employment levels, and that any real shift in Chinese economic policies would undermine the state’s advance. The newly evolved policies — as embodied in the draft five-year plan — espouse sustainable economic growth, rather than unrestricted growth. This shift in priorities derives from the current leadership’s subscription, by and large, to the theory that the social repercussions of China’s uneven economic growth are now becoming a threat equal to or greater than the threat posed by a decline of the economic growth rate. And it is the study of the failures of other Asian economic systems — from the Japanese to the Southeast Asian economic crisis — that prompted this redefinition of the best path for China. On the security front, the Jiang-era leadership viewed it as China’s right to be a big power, to exert its influence and to counter the U.S. encirclement of China in the post-Cold War period. China’s economic growth was expected to translate into increased political and military leverage, and confronting the “unipolarity” of the United States in the international system constituted a necessity. In this world view, issues like Taiwan, for example, were best dealt with by a clear show of force and repeated threats. The Hu-era leadership has taken a more subtle approach; it views a more cooperative approach as the surest path to greater Chinese influence. This “Peaceful Rise” concept, which burst on the scene in 2003 after a series of very public debates, promoted the concept of a cooperative China, one that would inevitably play a larger regional and global role, and that would do so with as little overt threat as possible. In other words,China’s “rise” would occur more smoothly if its neighbors were not calling on foreign powers for defense assistance against this rising China. Peaceful Rise offered a way for China to try to demonstrate the economic and security benefits of cooperation — as opposed to the frictions, resulting from confrontation, that would leave neighboring states behind the curve and under the influence of foreign powers (i.e. the United States). China’s new “pineapple diplomacy” with Taiwan has been a case in point, as have Beijing’s emerging energy ties with the Philippines and Vietnam. While the generational debate continues over the concepts of economic policy and China’s global role, during the most intense period of discussion China was largely unmolested by a United States preoccupied with its wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and against militant Islam in general. This reduction of foreign pressure contributed to the victory of the fourth-generation leaders’ overall vision of China’s path over that of their third-generation counterparts. (While this debate was not entirely conducted along generational lines, the generational shift has seen the more refined and subtle views of economic and strategic policies become pre-eminent.) As Beijing now prepares to tackle the very real problem of internal inequity, it again seeks a respite from U.S. pressure. China’s leadership has suggested it can only proceed with economic, social and even political reforms if the United States keeps pressure on China to a minimum. The idea is that “conservative” or “hard-line” forces are waiting in the wings, seeking an opportunity to undermine Beijing’s new “progressive” policies. Thus, if U.S. threats and pressures — be they economic, political or military in nature — give these reactionary forces the opportunity, these forces will curtail the new economic and strategic policies of China’s current leadership, and perhaps even restore a policy of confrontation instead of cooperation.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">EXPERTS CONCLUDE 2011’S FIVE YEAR PLAN IS KEY TO CHINA INEQUALITY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Gold 10</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Howard, China needs to step it up, http://www.marketwatch.com/story/as-china-grows-massive-hurdles-loom-2010-07-24?reflink=MW_news_stmp</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Every pundit and China hand says it: The next decade will be a critical one for China. After an unprecedented three decades of 10% annual growth in gross domestic product (GDP), in which hundreds of millions of its people were lifted out of poverty as the country became the workshop of the world, China faces a more difficult second act. Its government must spread the wealth beyond the great coastal cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen to deep in the interior. It must find work for its young people while providing for a growing number of retirees. It must encourage people to spend more and save less to "rebalance" the economy away from exporting and towards domestic consumption. How the Communist Party-run government handles this transition will determine whether it will retain the support of the Chinese people, despite its inherently undemocratic nature, and avoid the social upheavals that are the bane of all authoritarian states. It will also decide how great a power China will become. I pondered these questions during and after a recent family trip to China. I have been a China skeptic for some time: In October 2007 I warned about a bubble in Chinese stocks, when the Shanghai Composite index topped 6,000. It's trading just above 2,500 now. But our trip did give me a new appreciation of how much China has achieved. It's hard not to be impressed by the glittering new buildings, smooth roads, and gleaming subways. And the optimism of the people is a refreshing antidote to the gloom and doom you hear all the time in America these days. Of course, they're moving up in the world and we're the established superpower, so there's only one way to go, right? Also, all our mistakes are cycled endlessly through cable news channels and the Internet, but in China, the government keeps a tight lid on news. Nonetheless, the government-run English-language China Daily displays surprising candor about certain issues, such as corruption, the direction of the economy, and increasing concerns about the gap between the rich and poor in China. Those are the big issues the Chinese government faces, and the crunch time is now as party members and intellectuals debate the big issues that will be addressed in the next five-year plan (oh, yes, they still have those). Typically those debates continue until the Party Congress adopts the plan, then everyone gets in line. The sense of urgency is compounded by the fact that the party leaders will be anointing a successor to President Hu Jintao over the next few years. Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, who will be teaching at Yale University in the fall, told the South China Morning Post that "the upcoming 12th five-year plan for 2011-2016 'will be a watershed for China and the rest of the China-centric region.'" He told Bloomberg that GDP growth will remain strong this year, but China must "up the ante" to boost domestic consumption, which now stands at a lightweight 36% of GDP, a bit more than half the percentage in the U.S. How? He says China needs to develop a stronger social safety net, raise incomes in the rural areas, and boost employment in the service sector. We certainly saw evidence of the latter on our trip. A growing army of hotel and restaurant workers serve tens of millions of visitors from inside China and abroad. The safety net is key. Right now, many Chinese retire early -- often with government pensions. But by 2015, there will be some 200 million Chinese aged 60 and over and a shrinking population to support them, thanks to the one-child policy instituted in 1978. With the Communist-era benefits dismantled, Chinese feel they must save more to take care of living and medical expenses in their old age. That's where the "rebalancing" comes in. "It's going to be difficult, [but] they have the wherewithal to do that," says Christopher McNally, fellow of the East-West Center and an expert on China</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CHINA INEQUALITY CAUSES SINO-RUSSIAN WAR - EXTINCTION</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Sharavin 01 (Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, “What the Papers Say”, 10/3)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Chinese propaganda has constantly been showing us skyscrapers in free trade zones in southeastern China. It should not be forgotten, however, that some 250 to 300 million people live there, i.e. at most a quarter of China's population. A billion Chinese people are still living in misery. For them, even the living standards of a backwater Russian town remain inaccessibly high. They have absolutely nothing to lose. There is every prerequisite for "the final throw to the north." The strength of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (CPLA) has been growing quicker than the Chinese economy. A decade ago the CPLA was equipped with inferior copies of Russian arms from late 1950s to the early 1960s. However, through its own efforts Russia has nearly managed to liquidate its most significant technological advantage. Thanks to our zeal, from antique MiG-21 fighters of the earliest modifications and S-75 air defense missile systems the Chinese antiaircraft defense forces have adopted Su-27 fighters and S-300 air defense missile systems. China's air defense forces have received Tor systems instead of anti-aircraft guns which could have been used during World War II. The shock air force of our "eastern brethren" will in the near future replace antique Tu-16 and Il-28 airplanes with Su-30 fighters, which are not yet available to the Russian Armed Forces! Russia may face the "wonderful" prospect of combating the Chinese army, which, if full mobilization is called, is comparable in size with Russia's entire population, which also has nuclear weapons (even tactical weapons become strategic if states have common borders) and would be absolutely insensitive to losses (even a loss of a few million of the servicemen would be acceptable for China). Such a war would be more horrible than the World War II. It would require from our state maximal tension, universal mobilization and complete accumulation of the army military hardware, up to the last tank or a plane, in a single direction (we would have to forget such "trifles" like Talebs and Basaev, but this does not guarantee success either). Massive nuclear strikes on basic military forces and cities of China would finally be the only way out, what would exhaust Russia's armament completely. We have not got another set of intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine-based missiles, whereas the general forces would be extremely exhausted in the border combats. In the long run, even if the aggression would be stopped after the majority of the Chinese are killed, our country would be absolutely unprotected against the "Chechen" and the "Balkan" variants both, and even against the first frost of a possible nuclear winter.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ADVANTAGE THREE IS CRUISE MISSILES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">AMERICAN ADVERSARIES FOCUSING ON BALLISTIC MISSILE DEVELOPMENT NOW</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Gormley, 08 – Dennis M. Gormley, senior fellow in the Washington office of the Monterey Institute of International Studies’ James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, September 2008, “The Risks and Challenges of a Cruise Missile Tipping Point,” online: http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_missile_tipping_point.html</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ballistic missiles have dominated the missile proliferation scene thus far. They emblematized ultimate military power during the Cold War. Iraq's use of modified Scud ballistic missiles during the 1991 Gulf War mesmerized the public with lasting images of duels between Iraqi ballistic Scuds and U.S. Patriot missile defenses. Ballistic missiles based on Scud technology have spread widely to potential American adversaries and, as a potential means of WMD delivery, they represent significant impediments to U.S. force projection and a potent means of future coercive diplomacy. An epidemic of cruise missile proliferation would aggravate matters gravely. If the use of large numbers of LACMs becomes a major feature of military operations in the next decade, a combination of cruise and ballistic missile attacks, even with conventional payloads, could make early entry into regional bases of operation increasingly problematic. Nuclear, and possibly biological, payloads would produce catastrophic consequences.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CONTINUED JAPAN BMD DEVELOPMENT LEADS TO NORTH KOREAN SHIFT FROM BALLISTIC TO CRUISE MISSILES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Dutra 04 – Michael Dutra, Associate, White & Case LLP, 2004, “Strategic Myopia: The United States, Cruise Missiles, and the Missile Technology Control Regime,” Journal of Transnational Law & Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Cruise missiles represent a way for Third World states to offset the technological superiority of the United States and exploit the weaknesses of extant U.S. systems. The U.S. focus on building theater anti-ballistic missile systems such as the Theater High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) program will only push nations such as North Korea and Iran, which have long sought to acquire long-range means to threaten U.S. interests, to look for an alternative to ballistic missiles. As the effectiveness of U.S. antiballistic missile defenses increases, potential foes are likely to turn to LACMs as an alternative. In the 2003 war in Iraq, the effectiveness of U.S. Patriot SAMs at shooting down approximately fifty percent of Iraqi Scud ballistic missiles launched at U.S. forces should be contrasted with the failure of U.S. missile defenses to intercept any of the antiquated Iraqi Seersucker cruise missiles fired at U.S. forces. David Tanks, an analyst with the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, notes that “[i]f we start fielding ballistic missile defense, other countries will start developing more cruise missiles. It is cheap and relatively easy.” The logical choice for such nations is to start a cruise missile program, which is increasingly technologically feasible, or to try to obtain LACMs from another source. As cruise missiles are more accurate than first generation ballistic missiles like the Scud, less technologically complex, and less expensive to develop, they are the most attractive choice for a state seeking long-range strike capability as the technology required for indigenous LACM development becomes easier to obtain.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CRUISE MISSILES BOOST BIOWEAPONS DELIVERY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Gormley 08 – Dennis M. Gormley, senior fellow in the Washington office of the Monterey Institute of International Studies’ James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, September 2008, “The Risks and Challenges of a Cruise Missile Tipping Point,” online: http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_missile_tipping_point.html</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Modern low-flying LACMs offer more attractive offensive options. Compared with ballistic missiles, LACMs are expected to be much more accurate (by a factor of at least ten), less costly (by at least half) and, because of their aerodynamic stability and larger footprint, substantially more effective in delivering chemical and biological agents (conservatively, enlarging the lethal area for biological attacks by at least ten times).[17] They provide more flexible and survivable launch options from air, land, and sea platforms than larger ballistic missiles, while offering easier maintenance in harsher environments. And surely the success of American Tomahawk cruise missiles in both the 1991 and 2003 wars with Iraq burnished their appeal. Nevertheless, until recently the symbolic and psychological power of ballistic missiles trumped LACMs' superior efficiency and effectiveness. As long as ballistic missiles were not seriously threatened by effective missile defenses, they maintained this apparent advantage over cruise missiles no matter how problematic their true military utility proved to be.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">WE CONTROL UNIQUENESS – BALLISTIC MISSILES FAIL AT BIOWEAPON DELIVERY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Dickey 2000 (“Biocruise: A Contemporary Threat,” Michael E., Lt. Col., USAF, Air War College, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cpc-pubs/dickey.htm)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Dispersal of biological weapons via aerosolization of the agent using spray devices is the delivery method of choice. While the agent could also be sprayed from a motor vehicle or boat, such sprayers may not achieve the optimal downwind results or cover as wide an area. On the other hand, a crop duster type dispenser on an RPV or cruise missile/UAV carrying BW munitions, gravity bombs or spray attachments might be other methods of dispersal. Delivery using explosives is probably the least efficient of all options, since heat and blast effects may "inactivate the biological agent." Also, delivery via ballistic missile may be ineffective since the speed and heat generated by the reentry vehicle or warhead could render biological weapons harmless. Effective use of ballistic missiles with BW warheads is a technical challenge, difficult to engineer. Interestingly, Iraq reportedly experimented in December 1990 and January 1991 on an unmanned aircraft, which could deliver biological agent via spray nozzles, and with a biological weapons spray tank developed from an aircraft "drop tank." Iraqi officials claimed to United Nations inspectors that the experiment did not work; however, UN inspectors found evidence the Iraqis had subsequently modified and stored three additional drop tanks. Under favorable weather conditions, with a properly sized aerosol dispersal system, an aircraft, cruise missile, or UAV could deliver BW weapons and cause mass casualties in densely populated areas. For example, it has been calculated that 100kg of anthrax sprayed over a 300 square kilometer area, theoretically could cause up to 3 million deaths if the targeted population density is 3,000 to 10,000 per square kilometer. The effects of each biological agent will be different, however, depending upon its resiliency to the environment. An additional consideration in the type of agent employed is persistency. While most biological agents are sensitive to heat, oxidation, and desiccation, once stabilized through the freeze-drying process for effective weaponization, their persistency is increased dramatically. Notably, live anthrax can be persistent on the ground for up to 40 years. Obviously, weaponization is entirely feasible.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">SUCCESSFUL NORTH KOREA BIOWEAPONS ATTACK GOES GLOBAL IN SIX WEEKS – WORSE THAN NUCLEAR WAR</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Levy 07 (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera. A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan. Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species. Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today and can be engineered and disseminated to achieve a more deadly result than a nuclear attack. Whereas the explosion of a nuclear bomb would cause massive death in a specific location, a biological attack with smallpox could infect multitudes of people across the globe. With incubation periods of up to 17 days, human disseminators could unwittingly cause widespread exposure before diagnosable symptoms indicate an infection and appropriate quarantine procedures are in place. Unlike any other type of weapon, bioweapons such as smallpox can replicate and infect a chain of people over an indeterminate amount of time from a single undetectable point of release. According to science writer and author of The Hot Zone, Richard Preston, "If you took a gram of smallpox, which is highly contagious and lethal, and for which there's no vaccine available globally now, and released it in the air and created about a hundred cases, the chances are excellent that the virus would go global in six weeks as people moved from city to city......the death toll could easily hit the hundreds of millions.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."[1] More so than chemical and nuclear research, bioweapons development programs lend themselves to stealth development. They are difficult to detect, can be conducted alongside legimate research on countermeasures, sheltered in animal research facilities within sophisticated pharmaceutical corporations, disguised as part of routine medical university studies, or be a component of dual use technology development. Detection is primarily through available intelligence information and location-specific biosensors that test for the presence of pathogens. Biological weapons have many appealing qualities for warfare and their effects can be engineered and customized from a boutique of possibilities. Offensive pathogens are inexpensive compared to conventional weapons and small quantities can produce disproportionate damage. They have unlimited lethal potential as carriers and can continue to infect more people over time. Bioweapons are easy to dispense through a variety of delivery systems from a missile, an aerosol or a food product. They can be placed into a state of dormancy to be activated at a later stage allowing for ease of storage. Pathogens are not immediately detectable or identifiable due to varying incubation periods and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ADVANTAGE FOUR IS THE UPPER TIER</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">JAPAN ALREADY HAS LOWER TIER MISSILE DEFENSE – KILLS YOUR DISAD UNIQUENESS – BUT U.S. IS IN PROCESS OF DEPLOYING SM-3 BLOCK 2A UPPER TIER MISSILES BY 2014</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Toki 09 (Masako, project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, where she studies Japan's nonproliferation and disarmament policy, June 4, “Japan's Evolving Security Policies: Along Came North Korea's Threats”,http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Japan has deployed a multi-layered missile defense system consisting of sea-based mid-course missile defense (the Aegis BMD system) and ground-based terminal phase systems (PAC-3). With the accelerated process, PAC-3 installment in the Tokyo Metropolitan area was completed in March 2008. By March 2011, PAC-3 missiles will be deployed with 16 fire units around Japan's major cities. So far, PAC-3 systems have been deployed in 7 sites. [4] Moreover, Japan conducted its first test-firing of the PAC-3 interceptor at White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico on 17 September 2008. At the test, Japan's Air Self-Defense Force successfully shot down a mock ballistic missile.[5] Aegis BMD features the Standard Missile 3 (SM-3), a three-stage missile with a range of 1000 km that is said to be capable of intercepting missiles up to an altitude of 200 km or higher. The SM-3 block I-A missile is designed to intercept ballistic missiles in outer space during mid-course flight, and with Aegis BMD, it can intercept a short to intermediate range ballistic missile. A milestone in U.S.-Japan missile defense cooperation occurred when Japan became the first country other than the United States to succeed in intercepting a mock missile with the Aegis system. On 18 December 2007, a Japanese Aegis guided missile destroyer, Kongo, intercepted and destroyed a ballistic missile target in space for the first time. The flight test was conducted in cooperation with the United States Missile Defense agency.[6] After the series of successful tests, the failure of the second Aegis missile defense test off Kauai, Hawaii in November 2008, however, disappointed both U.S. and Japanese missile defense proponents.[7] Despite the mixed results, Japan's Ministry of Defense plans to deploy four Aegis-equipped destroyers armed with SM-3s by March 2011. The current Japanese missile defense system is designed to shoot down medium range missiles such as the Nodong within the range of 1000 km with the SM-3. Japan does not yet have the capability to intercept a Taepodong type missile of which the range is more than 6000 km. However, currently, the Japanese and U.S. governments are jointly developing an advanced version of the SM-3 Block II-A missile to improve its defensive capabilities against longer-range missiles, such as the Taepodong. The new SM-3 is scheduled to be available by 2014.[8] Japan and the United States have been also discussing deployment of Terminal High Altitude Air Defense (THAAD) since 2005. Deployment of this system, however, is unlikely to happen before 2011-2012 due to financial constraints.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CHINA IS OK WITH JAPAN’S LOWER TIER SYSTEMS – IT FEARS THE NEW U.S. UPPER TIER SYSTEM – COULD DEFEND TAIWAN</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">NTI 07 [James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007,http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan,]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">China's position on TMD is largely influenced by its profound mistrust of Japan, which dates back to the Japanese annexation of Manchuria in 1931 and atrocities committed during World War II. Ambassador Sha has stated, "We are still suffering from our nightmare with Japan since the war. These are a people who even deny the fact that there was something called the Nanking Massacre; some of them feel it didn't happen at all. So how can we have any confidence in a country like that?"21 Despite China's strong opposition to TMD cooperation with Japan, PRC officials have indicated a willingness to accept deployment of lower-tier TMD in Japan. China considers lower-tier theater missile defenses to be "legitimate" missile defenses since these systems have a limited footprint that can only protect small areas such as military bases and troop deployments from missile attacks.22 China's concerns about Japan's development of an upper-tier TMD system, especially a sea-based one, are based on the fear that such a system would also be capable of defending Taiwan in the event of a missile attack from the mainland. The US Navy's Theater Wide (NTW) system could be based in Japan but still be easily deployed near Taiwan. According to a 1999 Pentagon report, one Aegis cruiser equipped with the NTW system could defend all of Taiwan.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">SCENARIO ONE IS CHINA FIRST STRIKE</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">UPPER TIER DEFENSE THREATENS LOSS OF CHINESE ICBM DETERRENT – LEADERS FEAR U.S. FIRST STRIKE</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Zhang 05 (Hui, Research associate in the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government., December, “Action/Reaction: U.S. Space Weaponization and China”, http://www.armscontrol.org/print/1943, THE)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">A Loss of Strategic Nuclear Deterrent Capability Many Chinese officials assume that China is the real target for U.S. missile defense and space planning. From Beijing’s perspective, it is inconceivable that Washington would expend such massive resources on a system that would be purely defensive and aimed only at “rogue” states. As seen by Chinese leaders, China’s own small strategic nuclear arsenal appears to be a much more plausible target for U.S. missile defenses.[11] Chinese experts are concerned that even a limited missile defense system could neutralize China’s fewer than two dozen single-warhead ICBMs that are capable of reaching the United States. “It is evident that the U.S. [national missile defense] will seriously undermine the effectiveness of China’s limited nuclear capability from the first day of its deployment,” said Ambassador Sha Zukang, the former director-general of the Department of Arms Control and Disarmament at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “This cannot but cause grave concerns to China,” he said.[12] Some Chinese fear that, whether or not the U.S. missile defenses are as effective as planned, U.S. decision-makers could act rashly and risk a disarming first strike once the system is operational. Beijing is particularly concerned about the refusal of the United States, unlike China, to declare a no-first-use nuclear policy. The Bush administration’s 2001 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) feeds these anxieties. The NPR specifically mentions the possibility of using nuclear weapons during a conflict in the Taiwan Strait and the possible use of tactical nuclear weapons. The Pentagon’s draft Doctrine on Joint Nuclear Operations would maintain an aggressive nuclear posture including the possible use of nuclear weapons to pre-empt an adversary’s attack with weapons of mass destruction and increasing the role of such weapons in regional (theater) nuclear operations.[13] Thus, some experts fret that the U.S. policy of possible first use of nuclear weapons, in combination with its missiles defenses and a lowered nuclear threshold, could encourage Washington to resort to the threat or use of nuclear weapons against China over Taiwan. U.S. plans for global force projection would pose another threat to China. Some proposed space weapons such as common aero vehicles would be used to target hard and deeply buried as well as mobile targets. Such weapons would pose a major threat to the nuclear arsenal of mobile ICBMs that China is in the process of developing. Consequently, China worries that the combination of future U.S. space weapons and its missile defense system could subject China to political or strategic blackmail. Such systems would give the United States much more freedom to intervene in China’s affairs, including undermining China’s efforts at reunification with Taiwan. This concern is enhanced by U.S. moves in recent years to boost cooperation in research and development of advanced theater missile defense with Japan and potentially with Taiwan. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">CAUSES CHINA FIRST STRIKE – DOCTRINE ANALYSIS PROVES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Winn 8 (Jan 27th, 2008, Patrick Winn, Staff Writer, </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/20...rategy_080121/)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">No principle is as routinely and uniformly emphasized in Chinese writings on the demands of high-technology local war as the need for the PLA to seize the initiative from the outset of a conflict. Although official Chinese doctrine holds that, at the strategic level, China will never initiate a conflict, Chinese military observers view seizing the initiative at the operational level to be an imperative if they hope to have any chance of success, particularly against an adversary as potent as the United States. As one Liberation Army Daily article argues, “in a high-tech local war, a belligerent which adopts a passive defensive strategy and launches no offensive against the enemy is bound to fold its hands and await destruction” (Huang, 1999, p. 6). The risks of passively waiting for the enemy to complete deployment and buildup of forces are potentially devastating. Once the U.S. marshals its forces, the PLA would find itself in an untenable position. In the words of one Chinese analyst (Lu, 1996), if [the PLA] just sits there and waits for the enemy to complete assembling its full array of troops, China’s fighting potential will certainly be more severely jeopardized because the enemy will then be in a position to put its overall combat superiority to good use, making it more difficult for China to win the war. Moreover, “for the weaker party, waiting for the enemy to deliver the first blow will have disastrous consequences and may even put it in a passive situation from which it will never be able to get out” (Lu, 1996). Chinese strategists recognize that attaining some degree of surprise may be necessary to effectively seize the initiative in a conflict with an adversary as powerful as the United States. Indeed, numerous Chinese strategists emphasize 􀟎􀼛􀠊􃚰 [achieving victory through surprise] by striking at an unexpected time and in an unanticipated place.12 In one recent internal volume (Wang and Zhang, 2000, pp. 108–110), Chinese military writers highlight the importance of surprise, defining it and describing its potential results as follows: Taking the enemy by surprise would catch it unprepared and cause confusion within and huge psychological pressure on the enemy and would help one win relatively large victories at relatively small costs. [authors’ translation] Wang and Zhang (2000, pp. 108–110) further states that, once surprise is achieved, the PLA must exploit it decisively as quickly as possible: Under modern conditions, it is difficult to sustain surprise, which can only exist at the beginning. Therefore, once surprise is achieved, one must move quickly to exploit and expand the initial battle success, so as not to let the enemy regain its footing from the confusion. [authors’ translation] How China will be able to conduct such operations in the face of the clear superiority the U.S. military holds over Chinese forces remains a problem. Chinese analysts express their concerns that surprise is becoming more difficult to achieve, although they assess that it is still possible. According to Wang and Zhang (2000, pp. 108–110), disguising one’s own intent well is an important element of taking the enemy by surprise. The objective of disguising one’s intent can be achieved through camouflage, deception, feint, and under bad weather. Although it has become more difficult to disguise one’s intent under modern conditions, modern campaign practice has proved that it is still possible to take the enemy by surprise through excellent stratagem, smart camouflage, deception, feint, and under bad weather conditions. With developments in disguising technology and equipment, it is particularly important to deceive and mislead the enemy by high-technology means so as to truly hide one’s intent and achieve victory by taking the enemy by surprise. [authors’ translation] In terms of timing, it is critical to strike before the superior adversary has a chance to initiate its own attack or when it is still deploying its forces and building up its strength. According to one Chinese writer, “the enemy is most vulnerable during the early phase of the war when it is still deploying troops and making operational preparations” (Lu, 1996). Similarly, the authors of a Chinese book on U.S. military strategy (Pan and Sun, 1994, p. 238) view the deployment phase as a critical period of weakness for the United States: In the opening stage, it is impossible to rapidly transfer enormous forces to the battlefield. Thus [the United States] is unable to establish superiority of forces and firepower, and it is easy for the U.S. military to be forced into a passive position from the start; this could very possibly have an impact on the process and outcome of the conflict. [authors’ translation] To this end, one possibility mentioned in an internal volume is using a military exercise as 􁥽􁡸 [cover] for the preparations that would precede an attack (Wang and Zhang, 2000, p. 330). This is the point at which the logic of preemptive attack begins to assert itself in Chinese writings. A number of Chinese authors describe preemptive attack as a necessary and logical strategy for a less-advanced country to utilize against a more-powerful adversary. If future wars will be decided largely by the outcome of the initial engagement or campaign, attempting to take the initiative after hostilities have commenced seems a risky strategy, particularly for the weaker side. A quick strike prior to or quickly following the formal declaration of hostilities will disrupt U.S. deployment of forces to the region, place the United States in a passive position, and deliver a psychological shock to the United States and its allies. As Lu (1996) argues, this makes it imperative that China launch a preemptive strike by taking advantage of the window of opportunity present before the enemy acquires a high-tech edge or develops a full-fledged combat capability in the war zone. Through a preemptive strike, China can put good timing and geographical location and the support of the people to good use by making a series of offensive moves to destroy the enemy’s ability to deploy high-tech weapons and troops and limit its ability to acquire a high-tech edge in the war zone, thus weakening its capacity to mount a powerful offensive. This is the only way to steer the course of the war in a direction favorable to China. Iraq’s fate in the first Gulf War provided ample evidence to Chinese strategists of the perils of not seizing the initiative from the beginning of the conflict. Many Chinese assessments of the first Gulf War argue that Iraq would have had a better chance of defeating the United States if it had launched a preemptive attack instead of waiting for the United States to deliver the first blow. Chinese analysts assess that Iraq missed the opportunity to attack U.S. and coalition forces while they were deploying to the region (Jiang, 1997, pp. 151–152). According to Lu (1996), in the Gulf War, Iraq suffered from passive strategic guidance and overlooked the importance of seizing the initiative and launching a preemptive attack. In doing so, it missed a good opportunity to turn the war around and change its outcome. For the PLA, the U.S. deployment phase represents a window of opportunity that can be exploited through preemptive attack. Accordingly, one Chinese analyst wrote the following (Lu, 1996): an effective strategy by which the weaker party can overcome its more-powerful enemy is to take advantage of serious gaps in the deployment of forces by the enemy with a high-tech edge by launching a preemptive strike during the early phase of the war or in the preparations leading to the offensive. In the words of another Chinese analyst (Li, 1995, p. 190), this lengthy period of war preparations undoubtedly provides an adversary with quite a few opportunities that it can exploit, by launching a surprise attack or cutting off supply lines, for instance, causing the enemy to collapse without a battle because it is unable to receive supplies in a timely fashion. [authors’ translation]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">SCENARIO TWO IS SPACE MILITARIZATION</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">JAPAN BMD MILITARIZES SPACES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mitchell 01 [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”,http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and defense in the TMD context is hopelessly muddied when one realizes that plans for the NTW system include a substantial space component. An elaborate network of space satellites (as well as spaceborne forces to protect them) would be essential features of any robust NTW system, providing early warning data of enemy missile launches, as well as tracking information designed to guide SM-3 interceptors to their targets in mid-flight. It is instructive to note that politically powerful missile defense proponents such as U.S. Senator Bob “Spaceman” Smith (R-NH) envision NTW integrated into an overall space force that would pursue both defensive and offensive military missions.49 We need to incorporate forward-deployed capabilities like the Navy Theater Wide program and the Air Force Airborne Laser as space-based missile defense programs to ensure [that] we can stop missiles in their boost phase, dropping the debris fallout over our adversary’s homes, not ours…[S]pace offers us…the prospect of inflicting violence—all with great precision and nearly instantaneously, and often more cheaply. With credible offensive and defensive space control, we will deter our adversaries, reassure our allies, and guard our nation’s growing reliance on global commerce.50 This full-throated call for a robust blend of offensive and defensive space weaponry reflects a strategic principle elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, “anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand.”51 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent “dual capability” of spaceborne weapon components. To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting “death stars,” capable of sending munitions hurtling through the earth’s atmosphere at dizzying velocities.52 As Marc Vidricaire, a member of the Canadian Delegation to the U.N. Conference on Disarmament, explains: “If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land.”53 Furthermore, spaceborne BMD components can be used for offensive attacks in outer space itself, where orbiting space assets belonging to adversaries could be targeted for destruction. According to defense analyst James E. Oberg, “…the benign, defensive nature of a ballistic missile killer is not the only facet of such a system—it also has inherent offensive capability against satellites.”54</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">U.S. WEAPONIZATION GUTS HEGEMONY AND RISKS NUCLEAR WAR – FIVE REASONS</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">1. SYMETRIC AND ASSYMETRIC BALANCING </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">2. CRIPPLES ALLIANCES</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">3. SPARKS COUNTERCOALITIONS</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">4. FOSTERS ARMS RACES AND INSTABILITY</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">5 .ERODES TERRESTRIAL AND SPACE MILITARY ADVANTAGES </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Deblois 03 (Bruce M. Deblois, Council on Foreign Relations, “The Advent of Space Weapons,” ASTROPOLITICS v. 1 n. 1, Spring 2003, p. 43-45, pp. 29-53.)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The migration of weapons to space is likely to create more military problems for the host country than it will solve. From a military perspective, the price of localized and global instability coupled with incentives for pre-emption and escalation may well be a weakened military posture. Global instability is the core issue in an international context. One country’s pursuit and deployment of space weapons is destabilizing from the perspective of both foe and friend. Weaponization could prompt adversaries to develop ASAT or space-based weapons. In the extreme case, a peer competitor might engage in an escalatory arms race. Probably a greater threat, however, is dispersed, low-level proliferation. A number of countries are capable of building limited ASAT or rudimentary space weapons, and might choose to do so. The wide proliferation of micro-satellites or other ASAT weapons would threaten all space assets, due to the varying (and perhaps unpredictable) motivations of countries that could obtain them. Those countries capable of posturing space weapons are generally those that have the most assets to lose in a space war. The acquisition of such weapons might well present an irresistible first-strike opportunity for a country unlikely to win in a conventional conflict. Other adversarial states, especially those incapable of building space weapons or achieving parity in conventional forces, might increase their efforts to acquire nuclear, biological or chemical weapons, or pursue other asymmetric activities (e.g. terrorism). Beyond adversarial responses, allies and partners abroad might also react unfavorably. Any unilateral decision to weaponize space might have negative consequences for diplomatic relationships worldwide. The European Union has been a consistent and vocal critic and, as validated by multiple resolutions in the UN regarding the prevention of an arms race in outer space (PAROS), reflects the opinions of the larger international community. In response to proposed US tests of its mid-infrared advanced chemical laser (MIRACL), an official from the European Space Agency commented: ‘The world space community is confused as to the need for the US to develop space weaponry now, and is dismayed that the US is planning to test a high-powered laser against a satellite target’. Although it is unlikely that weapons in space would threaten or sever strong existing diplomatic ties, simple unpopularity might prompt a shift in the international center of gravity. Countries opposing or alienated by one states’ space policy might gravitate to other alignments, possibly creating an international coalition to oppose the space-weaponizing country on these and other issues within international organizations such as the UN or the World Trade Organization (WTO). A decision to posture weapons in space might also diminish the ability of the space-weaponizing country to assemble international coalitions. In the case of the United States, such international political clout has been crucially important to the military, political, judicial and economic conduct of the war on terrorism. These forms of diplomatic influence might be more important than hard power in the maintenance of global stability in the twenty-first century. 32 The simple unilateral posturing of space weapons creates global instability in the form of encouraging adversaries to respond symmetrically or asymmetrically, heightening tensions, while at the same time crippling alliances. In this less stable global environment, there is also the prospect of space weapons causing less stable regional environments. Integrating space weapons into military operations could have unexpected consequences for the progression of conflict situations, prompting significant regional instability. In most war games that include space assets, commanders discover that preemptively destroying or denying an opponent’s space-based assets with space weapons is appealing, yet often leads to rapid escalation into full-scale war, even triggering nuclear weapons use. One commander commented: ‘[If] I don’t know what’s going on, I have no choice but to hit everything, using everything I have’. 33 That this conclusion surprised strategists suggests that the full implications of space weapons have not yet been fully explored. What is common knowledge, derived from years of experience in futuristic war games, is that permanently based space weapons invite pre- emption and escalation. Local to a specific situation of heightened tensions, the existence of space weapons on one side, the other, or both could be the determining catalyst for escalatory war. In this view, a space-weaponizing country creates both the powder keg of global instability (where it has weakened its own international posture) as well as the spark of regional instability (where it has made itself a target of pre- emption and escalation). Coupled with this very unstable environment, it can also be argued that the same country that weaponizes space may actually damage its own military power. Much of the impetus behind space weaponization stems from perceived military utility, to include national missile defense applications for boost-phase intercept, time-critical targeting, and defense mechanisms for critical space systems. Ironically, the posturing of more military assets in space could actually weaken the military posture of those that seek further military advantage in that domain. Space assets are already a center of gravity (CoG), or at least a critical concentration of military force enhancement assets. To deploy more systems in space in an attempt to protect this CoG only complicates the problem. In spite of the added defenses, the preponderance of threats will remain: denial and deception, electronic warfare (e.g. uplink and downlink jamming), ground facilities disruption, micro-satellites (e.g. space mines), direct ascent interceptors or even a nuclear detonation in space. 34 In addition to limited utility to defeat these threats, the new space-based weapon systems would also be vulnerable to those same threats. There are more logical alternatives, many of which de-emphasize reliance on centralized space assets (e.g. alternatives offering redundancy in space or with terrestrial systems). In a briefing to the George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute Workshop, Dr Karl Mueller of RAND summarized a comprehensive set of responses to foreign space threats that do not require space-based weapons (.igure 4). In short, for the countries that could weaponize space, doing so would only amplify an extant and vulnerable CoG, and they would do so in the midst of many better and less costly alternatives. Perhaps more significant than extending the space CoG (i.e. making it more vulnerable) is exposing it (i.e. revealing it). A move toward space weapons is likely to prompt competitors to build ASAT systems, systems that will also threaten robust communications intelligence gathering systems that, to date, have been protected by an open-skies environment. Additionally, it could be strongly argued that the countries currently able to posture space weapons are those that currently hold military advantages in many other realms, and this begs the question: why would powers that currently hold military advantage in the air, land and sea realms open a new realm in space that could conceivably level the playing field for others? The posturing of weapons in space by a country capable of doing so will extend and expose a military CoG: space-based military force enhancement. 36 As a result, the militarily weakened and more vulnerable space-weaponizing state would simultaneously posture space forces that invite pre-emption and escalation in a globally unstable environment it created. From the military effectiveness perspective alone, ‘non-sense’ may be too weak a term; more to the point, for a state to posture weapons in space is ‘counter-sense’. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>


=Negative= 
For Questions email either Clayton: [[mailto:claytonjcarlson@yahoo.com|claytonjcarlson@yahoo.com]] or He: [[mailto:phrynzekhan@gmail.com|phrynzekhan@gmail.com]]



=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Security K</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE AFFIRMATIVE ENGAGES IN THE DRIVE FOR PERFECT SECURITY. THEY CONSTRUCT THREATS TO ELIMINATE DIFFERENCE, AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE USES THOSE CONSTRUCTED THREATS AS HOSTAGES, STANDING IN RESERVE, WHICH NECESSITATES ENDLESS WARFARE AND PERPETUATES THE IMPERIALIST DRIVE. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mitchell 5 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Andrew J. Mitchell, Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, "Heidegger and Terrorism," Research in Phenomenology, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 181-218]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">There can be no security. If being is what threatens then security as the absence of terror would be the absence of being. But the absence of being is precisely the threat. Obviously, security is just as little to be found in the absence of danger as it is in the consummation of the danger, total annihilation. Instead, security is to be found within the danger and threat of being. But how? Heideggerlikewise provides us endangered ones with a way of thinking security and preservation. This is his fourth contribution to a thinking of terrorism. Security and assurance, both equally apt translations of the German Sicherung, are indissociable from certainty (Gew it) for IHeidegger. In the course of the 1968 seminar in Le Thor, Heidegger provides a brief history of this relation between security and certainty: "the quest for certainty appears first in the domain of faith, as the search for the certainty of salvation (Luther), then in the domain of physics as the search for the mathematical certainty of nature (Galileo)" (VS, 30/13). Heidegger unites these two concerns for certainty within a single concept: assurance (Sicherung), "In the quest for mathematical certainty, what is sought is the assurance of man in nature, in thesensible, in the quest for the certainty of salvation, what is sought is the assurance of man in the supra-sensible world" (VS, 30/14).22 Certainty is in the service of assurance or security and is only the epistemological aspect of a greater ontological condition of security. Security is freedom from uncertainty in all of its forms, sensible, super-sensible, and ontological. Salvation and the mathematical certainty of nature are themselves to be understood as instances of an ontological assurance against uncertainty. Ontological uncertainty would be found in conceptions of singularity, where the uniqueness of a thing renders it irreplaceable and thus opens us to the possibility of loss, or in conceptions of alterity, where the other is not anticipated and confined in advance to the strictures of categorical thought. Uncertainty in this broader sense is eliminated in security. One is securely insulated against these differences of the world. For modern thought, the securing of representations for representational thinking provided the backdrop for the arrival of certainty (see GA 7: 82; EP, 98). Modern metaphysics itself, according to Heidegger, "means the securing of the human being by itself and for itself" (GA 67: 167). Such a policy must be abandoned as the human becomes more and more a piece of the standing-reserve like everything else . This postmodern security is accomplished through bestowal and appraisal of value, "Securement, as the obtaining of security, is grounding in valuation" (GA 5: 262/195; tin). What is valued can be replaced by something of equal value, and this fact lies at the center of our conception of security today. Securement, as a giving of value, assures us against loss by making the world replaceable. In this respect, security is nothing other than total availability, imagined as a world of utter transparency where all resources, human and otherwise, are constantly surveilled and traced through their paths of circulation. The transformation in being coincident with the end of modern warfare likewise puts an end to modern politics and establishes in its place an impersonal commitment to the furthering of planned replacement. Security is only possible when everything works according to these plans, and this requires "leaders," whose true function now becomes evident. For the plan, "the necessity of 'leadership', that is, the planned calculation of the securing of the whole of beings, is required" (GA 7: 89-90/EP, 105; tm). The demand for security is always a call for such Fiihrers. Planning is a matter of ensuring the smooth and "frictionless" circulation of resources along channels and pipelines of order and delivery. The plan's success is assured from the outset, because beings are now in essence planable. The mathematical tracking of stock and supplies becomes a total tracking when things have become completely available. Nothing is concealed from this taking of inventory, with the effect that the mathematical model of the thing is no different from the thing itself. The mathematical modeling of things, an operation that Heidegger traces back to Ockham and the nominalist split between word and thing (see VS, 30-31/13-14), is paradigmatic for the disappearance of identifiably discrete beings under the rule of technology. The model is no longer a representation of what is modeled but, in a paradoxical manner, the thing itself. Nothing beyond the thing's mathematical model is recognized.Everything essential to the thing is contained in the model, without remainder. Such is the truth of the standing-reserve; it is a collapse of the distances that made possible representation. Without that spacing, there is only the suffocating rush of the standing-reserve along the circuitry of the plan.The plan makes manifest the self-willing nature of technology, in that the plan has no purpose other than to assure its own expansion and increase. For the plan to function, it is therefore necessary that beings be consumed and their replacements follow right upon them. The plan plans for consumption, outlining the paths and channels that the standing-reserve will occupy in its compelled obedience to order. The world wars have pointed towards this end, according to Heidegger, for "They press toward a securing of resources [Bestandsicherung] for a constant form of consumption" (GA 7: 88; EP, 103-4; tm). This consumption is synonymous with replacement, since there is nothing lost in consumption that is not immediately replaced. The plan is to protect itself from loss by completely insulating itself from uncertainty. The plan seeks "the 'all-inclusive' [restlose] securing of the ordering of order" (GA 7: 92; EP, 107; tm). Order is only secured when there is nothing that resists it, nothing that remains in "disorder." Any remainder would stand outside of the prevailing order, as would any difference , in complete disorder. There is another Nietzschean intimation in this, as Heidegger reads the will to power as a drive to secure and order all chaos. Without remainder (restlose), without rest, the standing-reserve threatens to encompass everything in a monotonous, swirling sameness. The more secure the world becomes, the greater is the abandonment of being as it is further enframed within the plan. Homeland security is thus an oxymoron, since one of the most prominent effects of planning is the elimination of national differences and "homelands." Security itself is precisely the planned elimination of differences, and as for "homeland," it is ever more difficult to conceive of a homeland that would be nationally distinct from another.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THIS IMPERIALIST MINDSET PERPETUATES MILITARISM AND JUSTIFIES THE ENDLESS DOMINATION OF PERCEIVED “THREATS” RESULTING IN NUCLEAR WAR AND EXTINCTION </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Boggs, 5 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Carl, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless Wars, pg33)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Of course these images and discourses turned out to be highly mis¬leading. ephemeral. in many ways false as U.S. preparation for war against Iraq was in full swing by fill 20( C. U.S. ambitions for a global Pax Ameri¬cana had become more transparent, increasingly freed by the9/I1 after¬math, which licensed an aggressive militarized war on terrorism. Yet 9/1 I performed another function: it reinforced the idea, long held in elite circles, of a Hobbesian universe filled with manifestations of evil and danger. This nightmarish image benefits the militaristic impulses of U.S. leaders increas¬ingly prepared to combat those threats with ntaxinium force. Indeed the im¬perialist strategy, bent on establishing and maintaming a New World Order under us neobberal auspices. thrives on perceptions of a chaotic jungle in which international relations are turned into a Blade Runoff culture devoid of moral or political cohesion aside from what can be provided by the all-inclusive Leviathan (read: the military-industrial complex). As the one re¬maining superpower with unrivalled military power, and with an elite seemingly anxious to use that power. it would presumably fall on the United States as an indispensable nation to carry out the burdensome task of im¬posing the requisite global "order." Any challenge to that order, to the self-appointed rights and powers of the hegemon, are sure to be met with awe¬some displays of military force, as in Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, and Iraq—carried out, to be sure, in the name of various benevolent ideals. In such a Hobbesian world, it is much easier to frame conflict. diversity, and challenge in Manichaeistic terms, as expressions of a historic struggle be¬tween forces of good and evil, between a benign status quo and the diabol¬ical terrorists and dictators who challenge it. Seen thusly, we have a replay of familiar World War II scenarios in which virtuous and triumphant allies, fighting the good war, were able to defeat the wicked Fascists and Nazis, punishing them for their monstrous aggressions and crimes. It is out of such mythology that present-day American moral narcissism and political arro¬gance mixed with a might-is-right sense of-Mach/pot/6k, have been nurtured, reinforced by the (surely. temporary) victim status conferred by the events of 9/1 I. It is precisely here that the United States seeks to extend, possibly rein¬vent. traditional forms of imperial domination by means of unsurpassed mil¬itary force, including the threat and conceivable use of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO REJECT THE AFFIRMATIVE: TO EXAMINE THE AFFIRMATIVE ONTOLOGY IN ORDER INCORPORATE OUR DISCURSIVE REPRESENTATIONS OF DETERRENCE MILITARISM --- ONLY AN EXAMINATION OF ONTOLOGY CAN EFFECTIVELY BREAK DOWN IMPERIALIST JUSTIFICATIONS FOR ACTIONS </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Spanos, 2k </span>**</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Professor of English at Binghamton (William V, America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, pgs. 56-57)</span>//

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The end of the pursuit of knowledge, according to this developed – postcolonial – form of imperial practice, is to produce peace, but this peace will be achieved only by the total colonization and pacification of the Other. Theory (understood as a mode of inquiry that privileges seeing, theoria) and practice are conterminous. The Pax Metaphysica and the Pax Romana. My intention in invoking Heidegger’s ontological genealogy of imperialism has not been to offer an alternative to that of Foucault, Said, and most postcolonial critics who would interrogate imperialism as an economic and/or political practice or as economic-political practice to which cultural texts contribute in a fundamental way. As Heidegger’s entanglement with the German National Socialist project testifies, his restricted ontological focus is hardly adequate to the complex actualities of modern imperial practice. My purpose, rather, has been to demonstrate that the contemporary – postcolonial – critique of imperialism is disabled by a significant lack or, perhaps more accurately, by a resonant unthought in its discourse. What I have tried to make explicit by reconstellating Heidegger’s destruction of the metaphysical thinking of the ontotheological tradition (and by thematizing the affiliative system of sedimented tropes inscribed in it) into the context of more “practical” postcolonial critiques of imperialism is that these oppositional discourses, whether Foucouldian or New Historicist or Marxist or nationalist, tend to be blind to (or refuse to take seriously) the enabling degree to which Western imperialism is not simply a practice as such, but a deeply inscribed ideological state of mind produced by a “truth” endemic to a metaphysical ontology. More specifically, they overlook the fact that the modern imperial project is informed by a representational or a “visual” problematic that has its constructed origins in the origins of the very idea of the West. These opositional discourses, in short, are blinded by their overdetermination of “practice” to the reality that the idea of the West and imperialism are synonymous. To wring a turn on Enrique Dussel’s resonant insight into Descartes’s “I think; therefore I am,” the identity of the collective Western subject is epitomized by the statement: “I think; therefore I conquer.”</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Russia DA</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">NEW RUSSIAN DEFENSE SPENDING IS AIMED AT BOOSTING INFLUENCE OVER ITS NEIGHBORS – BUT U.S. SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS CONFLICT </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Eland 08** [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">But the bear is now coming out of a long hibernation a bit rejuvenated. Using increased petroleum revenues from the oil price spike, the Russians will hike defense spending 26 percent next year to about $50 billion—the highest level since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Yet as the oil price declines from this historic high, Russia will have fewer revenues to increase defense spending and rebuild its military. Even the $50 billion a year has to be put in perspective. The United States is spending about $700 billion per year on defense and starting from a much higher plain of capability. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russian military fell apart and was equivalent to that of a developing country. Even the traditionally hawkish U.S. military and defense leaders and analysts are not worried about Russia’s plans to buy modern arms, improve military living standards to attract better senior enlisted personnel, enhance training, and cut back the size of the bloated forces and officer corps. For example, Eugene B. Rumer of the U.S. National Defense University was quoted in the Washington Post as saying that Russian actions are “not a sign, really, of the Russian military being reborn, but more of a Russia being able to flex what relatively little muscle it has on the global scale, and to show that it actually matters.”[1]In addition, the Russian military is very corrupt—with an estimated 40 percent of the money for some weapons and pay for personnel being stolen or wasted. This makes the amount of real defense spending far below the nominal $50 billion per year. U.S. analysts say, however, that increased military spending would allow Russia to have more influence over nations in its near abroad and Eastern Europe. Of course, throughout history, small countries living in the shadow of larger powers have had to make political, diplomatic, and economic adjustments to suit the larger power. Increased Russian influence in this sphere, however, should not necessarily threaten the security of the faraway United States. It does only because the United States has defined its security as requiring intrusions into Russia’s traditional sphere of influence. By expanding NATO into Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, the United States has guaranteed the security of these allied countries against a nuclear-armed power, in the worst case, by sacrificing its cities in a nuclear war. Providing this kind of guarantee for these non-strategic countries is not in the U.S. vital interest. Denying Russia the sphere of influence in nearby areas traditionally enjoyed by great powers (for example, the U.S. uses the Monroe Doctrine to police the Western Hemisphere) will only lead to unnecessary U.S.-Russian tension and possibly even cataclysmic war.</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">OBAMA OPPOSES RUSSIAN SPHERE BUT U.S. CAN’T CHECK RUSSIA IN 2010 DUE TO OVERSTRETCH – WITHDRAWAL ALLOWS RESERVES DEPLOYMENT TO ATTEMPT TO BLOCK EXPANSION </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Steff 10** —Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia. It now has a sphere of influence that stretches into the Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Putin once said that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical disaster in 20th century history. He also said he had no intention of rebuilding that political union. The former statement was true; but we are seeing signs that the latter was just rhetoric. Putin does have political designs over the states of the former Soviet Union – the Customs Union that has just entered into force between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan is the clearest example of this. His intention will be to eventually integrate them into a new Russian political union for it is the next logical step in Russia’s resurgence. A customs union is designed to reintegrate the industrial and strategic economic sectors of the old Soviet grid. Mutual economic benefits will flow from this and former Soviet states outside it will find it incredibly appealing to join (or Russia will make them ‘an offer they cannot refuse’). Once integration is done the weaker states of the customs union have two options - resist political integration while maintaining economic connections (a delicate balancing act), or politically integrate. What is interesting here are the analogies we can take from the EU experience. The EU economic project is intended by French and German elites to eventually create a European superpower. But to do so requires the smaller states to become subservient to the national interests of the larger members (and these interests often diverge). Absent a serious external threat it becomes very hard for the smaller states to convince their populations they should become a tool in a larger, potentially global, geopolitical game the French and German want to gain entry into. This becomes even more difficult when the smaller states are democratic - as we've seen with the referendums in Ireland and eventual acceptance of the watered down 'Lisbon Treaty' instead of the 'Constitutional Treaty'. The states Russia wants to pull back into a political union are not stable and established democracies. Therefore the elites of these states do not need to submit themselves to the will of their population. Furthermore, if joining Russia in a new political union guarantees their monopoly of power (since the Kremlin gains an interest in bolstering these elites) they will be far more willing to go along with it. In a way, former Soviet states will sue for what they can; but take what they must. The reality is that most of them are already economically dependent upon Russia anyway. Furthermore Russia’s great power relative to them means they cannot realistically resist Russian expansion anyway because, as Ukraine, Belarus and Georgia all found out, if you disagree with the political designs of the Kremlin Putin can simply shut off the gas, close down a border, deny them primary goods, or, should need be, smash them with its far superior military power (as Georgia found out). It is the will to use power that makes others fearful and compels them to accommodate one’s interests; not the existence of power itself. Putin has shown time and time again the will to use Russia’s power against its neighbours. For the elites in states adjacent to Russia (and their populations) the message is clear: align with Moscow or face the consequences. As a consequence the next state to fall back into Moscow’s camp will be Ukraine after its upcoming elections. Obama and the Afghan Surge American military power is going to be absolutely bogged down in the Middle East throughout 2010. Obama seems to be escalating the conflict for political and diplomatic reasons: US presidents cannot just declare failure and retreat – it’s not in the DNA of the American political system. They have 'to show' that they will fight 'the bad guys' as hard as they can before they can make the rational decision to remove American military power. But Obama has announced that the surge in Afghan is temporary. The 'pull-out' begins in 2011. Meanwhile the US will be drawing down troops from Iraq (which is set for an extremely unstable year). This means that, all going to plan, by sometime in 2011 American troops should be in reserve and available to be deployed to counter the Russians or to any other hotspot. But the Russians know this and it gives them one year - 2010 - to completely lock down their influence and eject any remnants of American or European influence. Whether they entirely succeed or not is beside the point; by the end of 2010 any move to remove them from their position will have to be momentous and overt. At the same time whatever Obama's plans may be they are not really his to make, for there are simply too many players now involved in the Middle Eastern cesspool of crises. The most important in the coming year will be the one centred upon Iran. An Escalating Crisis 2009 saw an escalation in the Iranian-American standoff over its nuclear program. Firstly, Obama and co. released proof of a covert Iranian nuclear plant followed by a series of highly significant leaks that seemed to show the Iranians were driving towards nuclear weapons. But this crisis also became consumed by the Russo-American standoff as Russian support for Iran became overt as it seeks to use Iran as a bargaining chip. But the outcome of the crisis is also dependent upon the calculations of Israel. If they actually believe that a nuclear Iran is an 'existential threat' they will have to act against is before it attains nuclear weapons, or at least show America they will act unless it gets tough on Iran. However, for America 'to act' short of war it needs Russian help to impose sanctions. Thus far Russia has given vague signals that it will help if the price is right. The price being American acquiescence to a new Russian political sphere of influence around it’s near abroad (which it already has). Obama and Biden have declared that they will not do this owing to Russia's declining long term geopolitical position (although its power is growing in the short term). Biden, on a trip to Eastern Europe last year, even went so far to announce the Obama's administrations intentions to support efforts by US-friendly governments in the region to counter Russia's push. That means end-game for any Russo-American alignment on Iranian sanctions. At the same time Obama is escalating a war in Afghanistan and needs all the help from regional powers to 'win' this thing - even Iran. If America can accept the inevitability of a nuclear Iran and even the eventual hegemonic domination by Iran over parts of the Middle East and Gulf region then America can do a 'deal' with it whereby it would gain Iranian help to suppress the multiple crises in the Middle East. This would allow the US to drawdown military forces and reorient them back to the greater geopolitical enemy - Russia. Therefore Russia has an interest in keeping Iran close and ensuring that a rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">ATTEMPTS TO BLOCK RUSSIAN REGIONAL INFLUENCE GOES NUCLEAR </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Carpenter 8** (Ted, PhD in U.S. diplomatic history, VP for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato Institute, 9/22/08, “What Russia Wants” The American Conservative)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">At least in part, Russia’s actions in Georgia amount to payback for the West’s refusal to respect even the most basic Russian interests and an emphatic reassertion of its sphere of influence. Moscow appears to want two things: pre-eminence in its own region and treatment by the United States and NATO as a serious power whose wishes must be respected. Using military force as it did in Georgia is a crude way to make those points, but they were made effectively. The Bush administration’s vocal support for Saakashvili proved to be devoid of substance. Moscow demonstrated that it could coerce a small U.S. ally on its border, and Washington’s response was impotent. The response of NATO and the European Union reflected the same reality. For all the verbal bluster of those organizations, the Europeans, cognizant of their dependence on Russia for energy supplies (among other considerations), do not want a hostile relationship with Moscow. The Georgia episode underscores the limits of Washington’s deterrence capabilities, and it should send a warning about a dangerous defect in U.S. foreign policy. The reality is that the United States can do little to protect vulnerable client states in Russia’s neighborhood-unless Washington is willing to risk a military confrontation with nuclear implications. That remains true even for clients such as the Baltic states, which are formal members of NATO. At the same time, Russia must be careful not to overplay its hand. That possibility arose in late August when Moscow sought an endorsement from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization-the association of Russia, China, and the Central Asian republics-for military intervention in Georgia and the subsequent recognition of independence for South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Much to the dismay of Russian officials, the SCO refused to give its imprimatur. Indeed, the SCO statement expressed the importance of respecting the territorial integrity of countries. That should not have come as a surprise to Moscow. Several of the Central Asian countries have their own secessionist problems and do not wish to see the Kosovo and South Ossetia precedents spread. Even more important, China vehemently opposes secessionism, given its problems with Tibet, Xinjiang, and Taiwan. The SCO summit was a test of will between Moscow and Beijing-and Russia lost. That result illustrates the limits of Moscow’s power. Russia may be capable of establishing a modest sphere of influence along its perimeter, but it does not have the strength to reconstitute the Soviet empire-much less pose an expansionist threat to the heart of Europe as the USSR did during the Cold War. American opinion leaders need to curb their alarmism. Moscow’s conduct in Georgia may have been brutal, but it is not out of the norm for a great power to discipline an upstart small neighbor. There is no credible evidence that Moscow has massive expansionist impulses. And even if it did, Russia lacks the power to achieve such goals. Russia is not the Soviet Union, and it certainly is not the equivalent of Nazi Germany. U.S. policymakers need to take a deep breath, accept that Russia has returned to the ranks of major powers, and realize that Washington can no longer ignore, much less trample on, core Russian interests. The sooner they make that course correction, the better.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Midterms Ptix</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Dems will lose big – Low presidential approval, independents, enthusiasm gap, and national and district-by-district polling data are conclusive </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Cook 9/8** (Charlie, Founder of the Cook Political Report and Columnist at the National Journal, “House Dems Pushed To The Tipping Point: It's Now Likely That The GOP Will Reclaim The House, And The Gains Could Be Big”, 9/8/10, http://www.nationaljournal.com/njonline/po_20100908_4334.php)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">As early as the summer of 2009 there were growing warning signs that Democrats might face a tough midterm election this year. President Obama's job approval rating among the key bloc of independent voters, which was in the 60s before Memorial Day of last year, dropped to the 50s over the course of the summer and into the 40s around Labor Day. That number has hovered around 38-40 percent over the last few months. Independents voted for congressional Democrats by 18 points in 2006 but by 8 points in 2008. Anecdotal evidence followed by polling data began suggesting problems for Democrats, and it culminated in gubernatorial losses in New Jersey and Virginia last November and the loss of the late Edward Kennedy's Massachusetts Senate seat in January. For a long time it was primarily the "macro-political," national polling data that was pointing to increasing signs of major Democratic midterm losses, while Democratic fortunes in individual races looked fine. But there began a gradual erosion in strength on a district-by-district basis, with incumbent Democrats in swing or Republican-leaning districts looking increasingly endangered while their colleagues in some more reliably Democratic seats began to look softer in their support and more vulnerable to a significant challenge. In recent months, the national data reflecting a reversal of the 2006 and 2008 trends -- namely, independent voters swinging strongly toward Republicans and a strong partisan enthusiasm gap favoring Republicans -- began arguing that Republicans were in line to win a majority in the House with significant gains in the Senate. In recent weeks, though, the district-by-district deterioration has reached the tipping point. It can now be said that Republicans will likely take back the House. An individual race analysis points to GOP gains of over 40 seats in the House, but the national polling suggests gains substantially higher than that. While the individual race-by-race approach to analyzing House seats works great in "normal" election years, it invariably underestimates what happens in wave years, and the evidence is indisputable that this is a wave year. By the end of this week, the Cook Political Report will be rating about eight Democratic open seats as either Lean or Likely Republican, about 45 in the Toss Up column and 30 more in the Lean Democratic column, bringing the total number of vulnerable Democratic seats to about 80. To be clear, Democrats are not going to lose 80 seats. In the 26 years of the Cook Political Report, no party has ever even come close to winning every single competitive House race. But it would be reasonable to assume that each of the Democrat-held seats in the Lean or Likely Republican column will be won by the GOP and that the overwhelming majority of Toss Up seats will go Republican. In addition, in this kind of a wave year, it's reasonable to assume that Democrats will lose some of the currently Lean Democratic seats, those races where Democrats are currently ahead but have far less than insurmountable leads. This year is not exactly like 1994; no two elections are ever alike. There are some arguments that it might not be as bad for Democrats as the election 16 years ago. There are fewer open Democratic seats, Democrats won't be caught napping at the end, and the GOP brand is badly damaged. But while these are reasonable points, there are more arguments that this will be worse for Democrats than 1994. While Democrats had more open seats in 1994, they had not made strong gains in 1990 or 1992, so there were not many Democrats sitting in seats that had been Republican. Democrats didn't carry into 1994 a lot of seats that had been won under fairly exotic conditions, with voter turnout among young, African-American and Hispanic voters at record levels. The unemployment rate in 1994 was 5.6 percent, not 9.5 percent. The Speaker of the House was Tom Foley and the Majority Leader of the Senate was George Mitchell, neither a well-known or polarizing figure threatening to push aside the local incumbents as the face of the Democratic Congress.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan swings the election </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Tago 9** (Atsushi, Associate Prof of International Politics, Grad School of Law, Kobe University, Japan, “When Are Democratic Friends Unreliable? The Unilateral Withdrawal of Troops from the `Coalition of the Willing'”, Journal of Peace Research, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The democratic political cycle is closely related to the reliability of commitment. During national elections, it is very important for a democratic political leader to secure the support of a majority of voters and hold on to power (Bueno de Mesquita et al., 2003; Mayhew, 2004). Therefore, to maximize her/his chances of winning the election, a leader may terminate unpopular policies during the election campaign, including costly international commitments. International commitments often entail unavoidable material costs for a state and thus sometimes come into disfavor among domestic audiences. A leader may reverse an ongoing committed policy in exchange for additional electoral support from the public.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A republican win and a divided congress is key to restart capital markets </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Panteli 10** (Chris, Cites Keith Wirtz, Fifth Third Asset Management president and CIO, “Wirtz eyes US capital market rally after mid-term elections”, March 15 2010,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.investmentweek.co.uk/investment-week/news/1596324/wirtz-eyes-us-capital-market-rally-mid-term-elections)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">He predicts the Democrats will lose seats in both the house and the senate in the mid-terms, resulting in congressional gridlock, which in turn will lead to a rally in the markets. “The US markets would cheer for a divided government,” Wirtz says. “The markets will perceive less risk coming from congress and less damage to the American taxpayer and that may lead to a pretty nice rally late in the year. “The markets respond quite favourably to congressional gridlock and I have every hope and expectation our congress is going to lock up in November.” Wirtz believes the US equity markets will lead equity markets across the world in 2010.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Collapse of capital markets leads to global nuclear war </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Bailey 90** (Norman, Professor, “The World Economy in the 1990s”, THE WORLD & I, January 1990, p. 33)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The thirties after all began three months after the inception of the Great Depression and ended four months after the start of World War II. This is not a coincidence. Tens of millions were killed and maimed in the Second World War. If another historical credit liquidation cycle is allowed to take place in the usual chaotic fashion the chances of another global armed conflict will be greatly increased - this time not only would hundreds of millions (rather than tens of millions) be killed or wounded but the very hopes and the future of mankind, as such, might well be destroyed in the process.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">China Relations CP</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Text: The United States federal government should cooperate fully in the Chang’E lunar mining mission.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Solvency: </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">CHANG’E MISSION IS DESIGNED FOR US COOPERATION </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Los Angeles Times 8**, “There’s Room for China in Space,” 1/16/08, page online: http://articles.latimes.com/2008/jan/16/opinion/oe-manber16</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">China’s space program has already conducted two manned missions, and it plans to put a three-man crew into space late this year. Since November, China’s Chang’e 1 satellite has orbited the moon, gathering data on the lunar surface and environment. Unfortunately, the Bush administration has reined in any ambitious efforts at cooperation with China in space. In discussing the Chinese program, a senior NASA official, speaking on background, stated, “There are still lots of differing opinions in Washington about whether we are going too slow or too fast.” Legitimate concern about China’s military space efforts has led the administration to take petty actions against the Chinese civil program, and as a result, the United States is losing out to other space programs. The U.S., for example, refused to help on the Chang’e mission. The United States’ space communications network – consisting of sites in California, Australia and Spain – was not made available for the mission</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">SPACE RELATIONS WITH CHINA ARE KEY TO OVERALL RELATIONS- SPILLS OVER TO OTHER SPHERES </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Solomone 5**, Stacey Solomone, “China’s Space Program: Tang and Tea Together At Last,” Futures Research Quarterly, Spring 2005, Ph.D</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Once the United States commits to space relations with China, the US can then nudge China into space fields that are less nefarious and military-oriented. For example, the US can urge the CNSA to focus on environmental monitoring and other space-related sciences, such as lunar mining techniques or even artificial gravity on the lunar base. In this way, the United States would be influencing China's space program into more productive and internationally friendly space programs. And concurrent with Sino-US space relations comes increased transparency into China's space program and, ultimately, into the PLA. As military transparency increases, the United States can expect more transparency in other areas, such as human rights, intellectual property, security and legal institutions, etc. As the two nations develop a joint space program, other economic, political, social, and military bilateral ties also will strengthen. Then, the two nations will be better equipped to deal with issues such as Taiwan independence, North Korean instability, and oil in the Spratly Islands, all of which would affect regional stability in Asia.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Exo</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Text: President Obama should issue an executive order to the effect of or stating that (Plan)**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">XOs have the force of law and can effectively implement policy </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Mayer 1** [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">These chronicles of presidential decisiveness and unilateral action are at odds with the prevailing scholarly view of presidential power. Among political scientists the conventional wisdom is that the president is weak, hobbled by the separation of powers and the short reach of his formal legal authority. Presidential power, far from being a matter of prerogative or legal rule, “is the power to persuade,” wrote Richard Neustadt in the single most influential statement about the office in the past fifty years.6 Yet throughout U.S. history presidents have relied on their executive authority to make unilateral policy without interference from either Congress or the courts. In this book, I investigate how presidents have used a tool of executive power—the executive order—to wield their inherent legal authority. Executive orders are, loosely speaking, presidential directives that require or authorize some action within the executive branch (though they often extend far beyond the government).They are presidential edicts, legal instruments that create or modify laws, procedures, and policy by fiat. Working from their position as chief executive and commander in chief, presidents have used executive orders to make momentous policy choices, creating and abolishing executive branch agencies, reorganizing administrative and regulatory processes, determining how legislation is implemented, and taking whatever action is permitted within the boundaries of their constitutional or statutory authority. Even within the confines of their executive powers, presidents have been able to “legislate” in the sense of making policy that goes well beyond simple administrative activity. Y ale Law School professor E. Donald Elliot has argued that many of the thousands of executive orders “plainly ‘make law’ in every sense,”7 and Louis Fisher finds that despite the fact that the Constitution unambiguously vests the legislative function in Congress, “the President’s lawmaking role is substantial, persistent, and in many cases disturbing.”8</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Executive orders are effective policy tools and cause momentum and defuses opposition </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Cooper 2** [Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Executive orders can also be used to hit quickly with policies aimed at important problems, providing a strong and immediate sense of momentum for a new administration. These messages are sent to reassure an administration’s supporters that the issue positions for which they campaigned are going to be acted upon. In the case of symbolic orders, which are often used for this purpose, the reward can be given to allies without a serious commitment of political resources in Congress, legal resources in administrative rulemaking, or financial resources associated with building really substantive programs. They also serve to send a message to potential adversaries that the administration is truly in charge and moving. Those seeking to mobilize opposition in such conditions find themselves reactive and defensive.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">President Key to armed forces, all other actors fail </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Barron and Lederman 8** [Barron, David J., Professor of Law, Harvard Law School and Lederman, Martin S., Visiting Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center, “THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF AT THE LOWEST EBB -- A CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY”, in the Harvard Law Review, from Lexis Nexis, 121 Harv. L. Rev. 941]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Although the constitutional text does not offer much guidance as to the substantive war powers of the branches, it is difficult to construe the words of the Commander in Chief Clause not to establish some indefeasible core of presidential superintendence of the army and the navy (and the militia when they are called into federal service). n649 As Justice Jackson put it, the Commander in Chief Clause "undoubtedly puts the Nation's armed forces under Presidential command." n650 In addition, as we have seen, there is a longer and much more distinct history of the executive branch asserting such a superintendence prerogative than of it claiming a preclusive authority to disregard substantive limitations on the Commander in Chief's authority. Congress, moreover, has not attempted to enact many statutes that would intrude on such superintendence in a controversial manner. Thus, although it is difficult to ascertain the precise content, or breadth, of this core superintendence prerogative, we think it would be hard to deny that there is some such superintendence core. n651</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deference</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The Winter decision shows the Roberts’ Court is making judgments based on military deference**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**McCarty, 10**- Recipient of the Jones Day Award for Best Researched and Summated Article (Richard T., “Note: Winter V. Nrdc: the Navy, Submarines, Active Sonar, and Whales - an Analysis of the Ninth Circuit Review and the Roberts Court Extension of the Military Deference Doctrine,” 47 Hous. L. Rev. 489, Spring 10, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The Roberts Court. Prior to the Winter decision, observers predicted that the Roberts Court was likely to continue this trend of invoking the military deference doctrine. n208 In considering a First Amendment challenge to the Solomon Amendment, which withdrew federal funding from any institution of higher education that denied military recruiters equal access to recruit students, the Chief Justice cited Rostker for the proposition that judicial deference reaches its high point when Congress legislates in its role of overseeing and maintaining the military. n209 In fact, the Winter decision served as an extension of the military deference doctrine, providing great weight to the opinions and professional expertise of those in the [*512] Navy. n210 In his majority opinion, the Chief Justice explained that the Court "gives great deference to the professional judgment of military authorities concerning the relative importance of a particular military interest." n211 Noting that the record contained "declarations from some of the Navy's most senior officers," the Chief Justice explained that the Court "accepted these officers' assertions that the use of MFA sonar under realistic conditions during training exercises is of the utmost importance to the Navy and the Nation." n212 Chief Justice Roberts provided the traditional explanation that deference to the military and its interests does "not always trump other considerations," but "in this case ... the proper determination of where the public interest lies does not strike us as a close question." n213</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Deference key to military cohesion and readiness—judicial interference kills it </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Wilkinson 96** – Chief Judge US Court of Appeals (Thomasson v. Perry, Fourth Circuit, Majority Opinion, 80 F.3d 915, 4/5, http://www.ncgala.org/cases/thomasson.htm, AD)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aside from the Constitution itself, the need for deference also arises from the unique role that national defense plays in a democracy. Because our nation's very preservation hinges on decisions regarding war and preparation for war, the nation collectively, as expressed through its elected officials, faces "'the delicate task of balancing the rights of servicemen against the needs of the military.'" Weiss, supra (quoting Solorio v. United States, 483 U.S. 435, 447-48 (1987)). To the degree that the judiciary is permitted to circumscribe the national security options of our elected officials, it "decreases the ability of the political branches to impose their will on another [nation and at] the worst, it permits the imposition of the will of another [nation] on the United States." James M. Hirschhorn, “The Separate Community: Military Uniqueness and Servicemen's Constitutional Rights,” 62 N.C. L. Rev. 177, 237-238 (1983). After all, "unless a society has the capability . . . to defend itself from the aggressions of others, constitutional protections of any sort have little meaning." Wayte v. United States, 470 U.S. 598, 612 (1985). National defense decisions not only implicate each citizen in the most profound way. Such decisions also require policy choices, which the legislature is equipped to make and the judiciary is not. "Congress, working with the Executive Branch, has developed a system of military criminal and administrative law that carefully balances the rights of individual servicemembers and the needs of the armed forces." Sam Nunn, “The Fundamental Principles of the Supreme Court's Jurisprudence in Military Cases,” 29 Wake Forest L. Rev. 557, 566 (1994). While Congress and the President have access to intelligence and testimony on military readiness, the federal judiciary does not. While Congress and the members of the Executive Branch have developed a practiced expertise by virtue of their day-to-day supervision of the military, the federal judiciary has not. The judiciary has no Armed Services Committee, Foreign Relations Committee, Department of Defense, or Department of State. As the Supreme Court has noted, "the lack of competence on the part of the courts [with respect to military judgments] is marked." Rostker, supra. In fact, It is difficult to conceive of an area of governmental activity in which the courts have less competence. The complex, subtle, and professional decisions as to the composition, training, equipping, and control of a military force are essentially professional military judgments, subject always to civilian control of the Legislative and Executive Branches. Gilligan v. Morgan, 413 U.S. 1, 10 (1973). Finally, the imprimatur of the President, the Congress, or both imparts a degree of legitimacy to military decisions that courts cannot hope to confer. Even when there is opposition to a proposed change --as when Congress abolished flogging in the 19th century or when President Truman ended the military's racial segregation in 1948, see Hirschhorn, supra --the fact that the change emanates from the political branches minimizes both the likelihood of resistance in the military and the probability of prolonged societal division. In contrast, when courts impose military policy in the face of deep social division, the nation inherently runs the risk of long-term social discord because large segments of our population have been deprived of a democratic means of change. In the military context, such divisiveness could constitute an independent threat to national security. Parallel to the deference owed Congressional and Presidential policies is deference to the decision-making authority of military personnel who "have been charged by the Executive and Legislative Branches with carrying out our Nation's military policy." Goldman v. Weinberger, 475 U.S. 503, 508 (1986). Judicial interference with the subordinate decisions of military authorities frustrates the national security goals that the democratic branches have sought to achieve. The Supreme Court has recognized the need for deference when facing challenges to a variety of military decisions: a policy that prohibited the wearing of headgear in certain circumstances, Goldman, supra (noting that the military is "a specialized society separate from civilian society"); an Air Force regulation that required service members to obtain permission before circulating petitions on bases, Brown v. Glines, 444 U.S. 348, 357 (1980) (noting that "the military must possess substantial discretion over its internal discipline"); a base policy that prohibited certain political activity on base premises, Greer v. Spock, 424 U.S. 828, 837 (1976) (noting "the special constitutional function of the military in our national life"); and military court-martial proceedings, Schlesinger v. Councilman, 420 U.S. 738, 757 (1975) (noting that "to prepare for and perform its vital role, the military must insist upon a respect for duty and discipline without counterpart in civilian life"). The need for deference also derives from the military's experience with the particular exigencies of military life. Among these is the attainment of unit cohesion--"the subordination of personal preferences and identities in favor of the overall group mission" and "the habit of immediate compliance with military procedures and orders." Goldman, supra. Should the judiciary interfere with the intricate mix of morale and discipline that fosters unit cohesion, it is simply impossible to estimate the damage that a particular change could inflict upon national security--"there is no way to determine and correct the mistake until it has produced the substantial and sometimes irreparable cost of [military] failure." Hirschhorn, supra.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Military effectiveness is key to deter large-scale aggression and prevent conflict escalation </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Spencer 03** (Jack, Senior Defense Policy Analyst @ Heritage, "Focusing Defense Resources to Meet National Security Requirements," 3/21, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg1638.cfm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Be prepared to fight with little or no warning in unanticipated places. The emergence of global communications, advances in technology, and the globalization of terrorism provide many opportunities for surprise attacks against the United States and its interests. Maintaining the ability to fight and win wars in diverse situations and environments can discourage many of America's enemies from hostile acts. Maintain adequate capability to deter aggression against America's allies. America faces enduring threats beyond terrorism, as demonstrated by North Korea's nuclear weapons program. There are nations in every region of the world that threaten America's vital interests in the near term. Assuring stability in those regions and protecting U.S. interests requires the ability to defeat any nation or group that threatens America's allies, which itself provides effective deterrence against large-scale aggression. This should include both conventional forces and other capabilities such as an effective ballistic missile defense and reliable nuclear forces. The Administration should take every step to strengthen its important alliances and be ready to respond forcefully and immediately to aggression against America's allies.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Civ K</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Reformism fails because progress itself is a myth, promulgated in the interest of maintaining the hegemony of civilization—The Beatles were wrong, its not getting better, only causing all of your impacts </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Mcquinn 2005** (Jason, writes for Anarchy AJDA issue 51, http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/notaprimitivist.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Additionally, the cumulative failures of both the revolutionary social movements of the last several centuries and the continuing march of capital and technology in reshaping the world have called into question as never before the illusory ideology of progress that underpins modern civilization (as well as most oppositional movements). A progress that has promised inevitable, incremental improvements in our individual lives and the lives of all humanity (if only we keep the faith and continue supporting capitalist technological development) has been proven increasingly hollow. It has become harder and harder to maintain the lie that life now is qualitatively better than in all previous epochs. Even those who most want to fool themselves (those on the margins of capitalist privilege, power and wealth) must face increasing doubts about their rationality and their ethical values, not to mention their sanity, in a world of global warming, mass extinctions, epidemic oil and toxic chemical spills, global pollution, massive clearing of rain forests, endemic Third World malnutrition and recurrent famine. All amidst an increasing polarization between an international elite of the superrich and vast masses of the powerless, landless and poor. In addition, it has become increasingly questionable whether the multiple pleasures of electric heat, chlorinated water, hydrocarbon-powered transport and electronic entertainment will ever outweigh the insidious costs of industrial enslavement, programmed leisure and our seeming reduction to objects of a scientific experiment to determine at what point we will finally lose all trace of our humanity.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE ALTERNATIVE: THE JUDGE SHOULD ISSUE THE WHOLESALE INDICTMENT THROUGH A NEGATIVE BALLOT IN ORDER TO FOSTER A RETURN TO PRE-CIVILIZATIONAL HARMONY. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Civilization only exists because we have come to believe in its inevitability—this is tragic because civilization was a mistake. It is bound to collapse, and our critique is necessary to begin readapting to the way that humans lived for 99% of their existence, otherwise we can just be ignorant of the coming universal biological holocaust </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Heinberg 1995** (Richard, “The Primitivist Critique of Civilization, presented at the 24th annual meeting of the International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations at Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/civilization.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Isn't civilization simply the inevitable expression of the evolutionary urge as it is translated through human society? Isn't primitivism therefore regressive? We are accustomed to thinking of the history of Western civilization as an inevitable evolutionary progression. But this implies that all the world's peoples who didn't spontaneously develop civilizations of their own were less highly evolved than ourselves, or simply "backward." Not all anthropologists who have spent time with such peoples think this way. Indeed, according to the cultural materialist school of thought, articulated primarily by Marvin Harris, social change in the direction of technological innovation and social stratification is fueled not so much by some innate evolutionary urge as by crises brought on by overpopulation and resource exhaustion. Wasn't primitive life terrible? Would we really want to go back to hunting and gathering, living without modern comforts and conveniences? Putting an urban person in the wilderness without comforts and conveniences would be as cruel as abandoning a domesticated pet by the roadside. Even if the animal survived, it would be miserable. And we would probably be miserable too, if the accouterments of civilization were abruptly withdrawn from us. Yet the wild cousins of our hypothetical companion animal--whether a parrot, a canine, or a feline--live quite happily away from houses and packaged pet food and resist our efforts to capture and domesticate them, just as primitive peoples live quite happily without civilization and often resist its imposition. Clearly, animals (including people) can adapt either to wild or domesticated ways of life over the course of several generations, while adult individuals tend to be much less adaptable. In the view of many of its proponents, primitivism implies a direction of social change over time, as opposed to an instantaneous, all-or-nothing choice. We in the industrial world have gradually accustomed ourselves to a way of life that appears to be leading toward a universal biological holocaust. The question is, shall we choose to gradually accustom ourselves to another way of life--one that more successfully integrates human purposes with ecological imperatives--or shall we cling to our present choices to the bitter end? Obviously, we cannot turn back the clock. But we are at a point in history where we not only can, but must pick and choose among all the present and past elements of human culture to find those that are most humane and sustainable. While the new culture we will create by doing so will not likely represent simply an immediate return to wild food gathering, it could restore much of the freedom, naturalness, and spontaneity that we have traded for civilization's artifices, and it could include new versions of cultural forms with roots in humanity's remotest past. We need not slavishly imitate the past; we might, rather, be inspired by the best examples of human adaptation, past and present. Instead of "going back," we should think of this process as "getting back on track."</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Growth, technology, language, development and what the aff calls sustainability is ONLY achievable when one dominates another which justifies all atrocities and ends in extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Abdel-Rahim 08** (Layla, “Beyond the Symbolic and towards the Collapse: Intro to John Zerzan’s conferences in Montreal,” May 2008, http://layla.miltsov.org/introduction-to-z/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The other side of the question, though, is that many of those who do not even have a chance at privilege, gobble up the whole value system and ensure that by their simple desire to “one day get there” (“there” is of course the ultimate abstraction) run the system to its logical end: the Total Collapse, the Apocalypse – that elitist knowledge and desire that will blow up the rest of the world. Some of the so-called “anarchists” at the fair seem to fall in this category: they do not associate themselves with the capitalist elites, they identify themselves as anarchists and yet scream in fear that it is Zerzan – and not those who order and finance Knowledge and technologies – who is going to take away their cosy computers, tasty bakeries, black uniforms, contraceptives and the medical establishment that makes their abortions and sex change operations, and the like. In other words, they are deaf to the fact that it is this Knowledge with its implicit and inherent logic that has killed off thousands of varieties of animal, plant, and human cultures around the world. When they scream that the collapse will kill millions of people, they obviously exclude all the Africans, Asians, Aborigines who have already been killed and continue to perish around the world. This logic, obviously, excludes these people from the category itself of “people” and we find ourselves facing the elitist eugenicist rhetoric, once again. When I voiced this concern during the last workshop, a woman responded to my comment with the cultural relativist jargon that veils the truth of murder: “you are the racist,” she said, “because the Africans, Aborigines, and the Asians have great cultures”. Here, I realised that this statement, like the rest of “relativist” rationale, is used to gloss over the intentional genocide by the culture of greed and megalomaniac need for the feeling/illusion of agency in a domesticated (i.e. disempowered) society, where control becomes possible only over the one rendered weaker and whose life and death are in the hands of the tamer who appropriates the decision to extinguish that life or let it be. The relativist cultural jargon in this context means: “those people have their own great cultures because we are tolerant of them and we have our technologies”. It is of course “our” agency that we are concerned with and “their” existence owes to our will; also these “agents” fail to work out the logic to its end: our appetite and greed kills off those people and their environments, because technologies depend on the exploitation of human and geophysical resources: it is the peasants who grew our food, the miners who brought us metal and light, the blacks of South Africa who dug out our diamonds and coal. A good example is the documentary film Darwin’s Nightmare that shows how the native communities around lake Victoria in Tanzania are devastated, dying or surviving by serving as prostitutes to foreigners, because the complex ecosystem of the lake and its surroundings - after having fed human and non-human life for millions of years - has, in a matter of a few decades, been completely destroyed, since the colonial rule left in Tanzania a structure of control that ensured food and profitable business for “Europe” even after the gourmet consumers went “home”. Successful control and exploitation of Tanzanian resources could have been ensured only by simplifying local diversity and curbing Tanzanian possibilities by cutting off the local populations from their surroundings and resources. Simply, introduce the Nile Perch and leave some, previously abused but now having the chance to redeem their income, foreigners in charge, the right kind of government that is “business” oriented and that respects the “advanced” monarchies and democracies - and you have the System of collapse in motion. The relativist logic continues: “Yes, once upon a time those brown and black people had their civilisations, and we acknowledge that. Yes, our white ancestors have amassed at the expense of the coloured people’s pain, but hey, they should stop sulking and feeling victimised, it’s time to move on, just don’t ask us to give up on what we have amassed and, anyway, today they have a right to either grow our “fair trade” coffee and chocolate and rice and the rest of it and, well, yes, they might be living their quaint little “third world” lives, but then people are different and have different needs – it just so happens that our needs are much more complex and sophisticated; hey, we’re civilised, while their needs are modest and simple, and it suits us just fine and it is their choice, which we OF COURSE respect and we shall not tolerate any other choice, such as them getting appetites like ours. We have the bomb and we’ll bomb them if they threaten our bomb and our way of life. But if they’re decent and want to, we’ll even let them lead their exotic lives, which are still useful to us, for, we can come and look at them or study and observe them, or they can entertain us when we go on our touristic vacations like when we visit the remnants of the animal populations we first made extinct then placed in the few areas that we designated as game parks (i.e. the domesticated “wilderness” of Safari “adventures”). We can make money by taking their pictures and selling the National Geographic, or by appropriating and copyrighting their music for our profit (Nick Cage, Peter Gabriel, etc.) We kill for lucrative civil engineer contracts in the brown cities that we’ve bombed. We receive fat grants for anthropological studies, that allow us to stomp all over their primitive existence with our violent salaries, unequal exchange rates and financial and scientific (i.e. symbolic) institutions that back us and impose our appetite as authority – we get the money, the computers, the food, and the machines and they get to admire us, for we are the symbols of justice and good life, we can teach them and domesticate them with our ever non-satiable demand for transcendence. We kill and consume them, and yet remain forever hungry and scared, bulimic and anorexic as we hoard for the future. Marshal Sahlins says something about the Affluent Society and the Society of Poverty and Fear, but surely, they have a right to their poverty, right? And we have a right to the eternal spectacle of the bloody symbolic?”</span>


=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Nietzsche K</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**WE REALLY DIDN’T WANT TO BREAK IT TO YOU, BUT PAIN AND SUFFERING ARE INEVITABLE.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE AFF SEEMS TO THINK THIS TOTALLY SUCKS, AND THEY HAVE GIVEN YOU A WAY TO CURE SEEMINGLY AWFUL PROBLEMS. HOWEVER, THE 1AC’S METHODOLOGY ASSUMES LIFE CAN ONLY BE GOOD WITHOUT PAIN AND INSECURITY, WHICH NEGATES LIFE AND CAUSES UNENDING VIOLENCE. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">SCOTT 90 </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Charles E., professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, “The Question of Ethics: Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger,” Ed. John Sallis, p. 173-174)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">One pathogenic aspect of our Western ethos that we have followed is the ascetic ideal. It is characterized by many types of refusal and denial regarding the manner in which human life occurs, and on Nietzsche's account the ascetic ideal reinforces this denial with a habitual insistence on the continuous presence of meaning in all dimensions of life and being. In our ascetic withdrawal from life we join forces with hopelessness, suffering, death, and helplessness by giving them meaning, in our appropriation of them, that far exceeds their occurrence and that subordinates them within a scheme of meaning and hope. The rule governing the ascetic ideal is found in its incorporation and blind expression of the hopelessness and meaninglessness that it is designed to overcome. This incorporation of what it is constitutes the ideal's nihilism for Nietzsche: the affirmations within the ascetic ideal project their opposites and produce a spiral of unwitting and inevitable violence in the spirituality that they create. The denial of life within the boundaries of the ascetic ideal continuously reestablishes the power of the ideal. But when this movement is broken by a self-overcoming like that in Nietzsche's genealogy of the ascetic ideal, the rule of the ascetic ideal is interrupted and a possibility is opened for life-affirmations that do not suppress the most fearful occurrences involved in being alive. The joyousness of life without the illusion of continuous meaning, the joyousness that Nietzsche found in early Greek culture, was lost, according to his reading, in the course of the increasing cultural dominance of those whose nerve has failed before the disheartening flow of life. The ascetic ideal expresses this failure in its insistence on meaning and in its persistent manufacture of hope out of illusions bred of the failure. Heidegger is perhaps at his most non-Nietzschean point when in his Rector's address he turns to the Greek division between the everyday and the question of being. This is an ironic moment in Heidegger's thought: he traces the origins of his own move to separate the future of the German university from the German Volkstum, (that is, from dominant popular culture) to the emergence of the separation of thought from everyday life in Greek culture. But this move is not associated with the joyousness that Nietzsche uses as his reference in delimiting the ascetic ideal. According to Nietzsche's genealogy we have lost an earthly affirmation of life in the midst of the specific suffering of everyday existence. Nietzsche countenances fully the brutality, the fateful shattering of hope, the disappointments that break people's lives, the individual and social tragedies. The debilitation of minds and bodies is juxtaposed to people's savoring food and drink, enjoying sexual pleasure. It is juxtaposed to friendship, the energy of ambition, the struggle between competitors, the mixture of desperation and exhilaration in efforts of accomplishment. Nietzsche's move is toward affirmation in the midst of chaotic living when he speaks of what is lost in the blind and self-deceived chaos of asceticism that is ordered by the illusion of continuous meaning. In this affirmation one has an awareness, presumably a full awareness, of the otherness to human interest that radically distresses us. People's attention is delimited by it. Rather than escape or turn away from it, people are delimited by it in their relations with things. Rather than appropriate the suffering of life in ascetic self-denial, human beings stand over against its otherness, its unthinkableness, its density. They need not attempt to embody it in forms that seem to shape it to human and thinkable dimensions. They live in the inappropriable, meaningless dark vacuity, with it and other to it, out of it and in it. They are angel and animal, Nietzsche said. Not to be lost, not to be redeemed, not to be overcome, it is juxtaposed to a will to live, an affirmation with, and not in spite of, the chaos.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">CRISIS POLITICS IN THE NAME OF PRESERVING SECURITY NECESSITATE A STATE OF EXCEPTION THAT DESTROYS INDIVIDUALISTIC DEMOCRACY AND CAUSES ENDLESS DEPOLITICIZED WAR </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AGAMBEN 02 </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Giorgio, Prof of Aesthetics @ U of Verona, Security aand Terror, Theory and Event 5:4, Muse, Trans by Carolina Emcke)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Neither Turgot and Quesnay nor the Physiocratic officials were primarily concerned with the prevention of famine or the regulation of production, but rather wanted to allow for their development in order to guide and "secure" their consequences. While disciplinary power isolates and closes off territories, measures of security lead to an opening and globalisation; while the law wants to prevent and prescribe, security wants to intervene in ongoing processes to direct them. In a word, discipline wants to produce order, while security wants to guide disorder. Since measures of security can only function within a context of freedom of traffic, trade, and individual initiative, Foucault can show that the development of security coincides with the development of liberal ideology. Today we are facing extreme and most dangerous developments of this paradigm of security. In the course of a gradual neutralisation of politics and the progressive surrender of traditional tasks of the state, security imposes itself as the basic principle of state activity. What used to be one among several decisive measures of public administration until the first half of the twentieth century, now becomes the sole criterion of political legitimation. Security reasoning entails an essential risk. A state which has security as its only task and source of legitimacy is a fragile organism; it can always be provoked by terrorism to turn itself terroristic. We should not forget that the first major organisation of terror after the war, the Organisation de l'Armée Secrète (OAS) was established by a French General who thought of himself as patriotic and who was convinced that terrorism was the only answer to the guerilla phenomenon in Algeria and Indochina. When politics, the way it was understood by theorists of the "Polizeiwissenschaft" in the eighteenth century, reduces itself to police, the difference between state and terrorism threatens to disappear. In the end it may lead to security and terrorism forming a single deadly system in which they mutually justify and legitimate each others' actions. The risk is not merely the development of a clandestine complicity of opponents but that the hunt for security leads to a worldwide civil war which destroys all civil coexistence. In the new situation -- created by the end of the classical form of war between sovereign states -- security finds its end in globalisation: it implies the idea of a new planetary order which is, in fact, the worst of all disorders. But there is yet another danger. Because they require constant reference to a state of exception, measures of security work towards a growing depoliticization of society. In the long run, they are irreconcilable with democracy. Nothing is therefore more important than a revision of the concept of security as the basic principle of state politics. European and American politicians finally have to consider the catastrophic consequences of uncritical use of this figure of thought. It is not that democracies should cease to defend themselves, but the defense of democracy demands today a change of political paradigms and not a world civil war which is just the institutionalization of terror. Maybe the time has come to work towards the prevention of disorder and catastrophe, and not merely towards their control. Today, there are plans for all kinds of emergencies (ecological, medical, military), but there is no politics to prevent them. On the contrary, we can say that politics secretly works towards the production of emergencies. It is the task of democratic politics to prevent the development of conditions which lead to hatred, terror, and destruction -- and not to reduce itself to attempts to control them once they occur.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THUS, THE ALTERNATIVE IS TO AFFIRM CHAOS AND EMBRACE DIFFERENCE. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">WE LIVE IN A DANGEROUS WORLD. EFFORTS TO CONTROL FEAR HAVE RESULTED IN MILLIONS OF DEATHS AND CREATED WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE ALTERNATIVE ALLOWS US TO LEARN TO LIVE WITH THE WORLD AS IT IS. ADMITTING THAT EVERYTHING IS DANGEROUS WILL END THE DEATH CYCLE. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">DER DERIAN 98 </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch, nor commands the disciplinary power of "security." In its name, peoples have alienated their fears, rights and powers to gods, emperors, and most recently, sovereign states, all to protect themselves from the vicissitudes of nature--as well as from other gods, emperors, and sovereign states. In its name, weapons of mass destruction have been developed which have transfigured national interest into a security dilemma based on a suicide pact. And, less often noted in international relations, in its name billions have been made and millions killed while scientific knowledge has been furthered and intellectual dissent muted. We have inherited an ontotheology of security, that is, an a priori argument that proves the existence and necessity of only one form of security because there currently happens to be a widespread, metaphysical belief in it. Indeed, within the concept of security lurks the entire history of western metaphysics, which was best described by Derrida "as a series of substitutions of center for center" in a perpetual search for the "transcendental signified." Continues... 7 In this case, Walt cites IR scholar Robert Keohane on the hazards of "reflectivism," to warn off anyone who by inclination or error might wander into the foreign camp: "As Robert Keohane has noted, until these writers `have delineated . . . a research program and shown . . . that it can illuminate important issues in world politics, they will remain on the margins of the field.' " 8 By the end of the essay, one is left with the suspicion that the rapid changes in world politics have triggered a "security crisis" in security studies that requires extensive theoretical damage control. What if we leave the desire for mastery to the insecure and instead imagine a new dialogue of security, not in the pursuit of a utopian end but in recognition of the world as it is, other than us ? What might such a dialogue sound like? Any attempt at an answer requires a genealogy: to understand the discursive power of the concept, to remember its forgotten meanings, to assess its economy of use in the present, to reinterpret--and possibly construct through the reinterpretation--a late modern security comfortable with a plurality of centers, multiple meanings, and fluid identities. The steps I take here in this direction are tentative and preliminary. I first undertake a brief history of the concept itself. Second, I present the "originary" form of security that has so dominated our conception of international relations, the Hobbesian episteme of realism. Third, I consider the impact of two major challenges to the Hobbesian episteme, that of Marx and Nietzsche. And finally, I suggest that Baudrillard provides the best, if most nullifying, analysis of security in late modernity. In short, I retell the story of realism as an historic encounter of fear and danger with power and order that produced four realist forms of security: epistemic, social, interpretive, and hyperreal. To preempt a predictable criticism, I wish to make it clear that I am not in search of an "alternative security." An easy defense is to invoke Heidegger, who declared that "questioning is the piety of thought." Foucault, however, gives the more powerful reason for a genealogy of security: I am not looking for an alternative; you can't find the solution of a problem in the solution of another problem raised at another moment by other people. You see, what I want to do is not the history of solutions, and that's the reason why I don't accept the word alternative . My point is not that everything is bad, but that everything is dangerous, then we always have something to do. The hope is that in the interpretation of the most pressing dangers of late modernity we might be able to construct a form of security based on the appreciation and articulation rather than the normalization or extirpation of difference. Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security through a genealogy of modes of being. His method is not to uncover some deep meaning or value for security, but to destabilize the intolerable fictional identities of the past which have been created out of fear, and to affirm the creative differences which might yield new values for the future. Originating in the paradoxical relationship of a contingent life and a certain death, the history of security reads for Nietzsche as an abnegation, a resentment and, finally, a transcendence of this paradox. In brief, the history is one of individuals seeking an impossible security from the most radical "other" of life, the terror of death which, once generalized and nationalized, triggers a futile cycle of collective identities seeking security from alien others--who are seeking similarly impossible guarantees. It is a story of differences taking on the otherness of death, and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.</span>




=<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Turkey Arms sales CP</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Text: The United States federal government should continue its arms sales to the Republic of Turkey if and only if Turkey agrees to enter post-plan bilateral negotiations with Iran with the goal of achieving Iranian de-proliferation. </span>**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The counterplan solves Middle East war and Israeli-relations--Turkey is uniquely key to Iranian deproliferation </span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**The Journal of Turkish Weekly, 9/13**/10, “Can Turkey Defuse Iran’s Nuclear Challenge?” http://www.turkishweekly.net/columnist/3378/can-turkey-defuse-iran-39-s-nuclear-challenge.html</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Now is the time for Turkey to play a meaningful role in curbing Iran's ambition to acquire nuclear weapons. As sanctions intensify - and before Israel or the United States seriously consider taking more coercive (including military) action against Iran's nuclear facilities - Turkey's unique position, influence over and experience with Iran could be utilized. But for Turkey to play such a role, it must display the moral equivalence and the kind of pragmatic leadership that can engender confidence in its meditation efforts in the region. At this time in particular, Turkey could deliver a clear and strong message to Iran: there is indeed a way out of isolation, before it is too late. The pressure on Iran has increased significantly following the adoption of a fourth round of sanctions by the United Nations Security Council in June, as well as more stringent measures, which were subsequently adopted by the United States, the European Union, Canada, Japan and Australia. The banking and energy sectors - and Iran's revolutionary guard - have been particularly affected. As Tehran becomes increasingly cornered, it should be induced to seek avenues to break its international isolation. Since Iran has never claimed to be pursuing nuclear weapons, with Turkey's unique position of influence, it provides a logical channel through which Tehran could make a deal that would meet the demands of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the five permanent members of the United Nation Security Council (the US, China, Russia, France and Great Britain) plus Germany (P5+1) without losing face. Turkey is uniquely suited to play this role. First, Turkey's success with Brazil in concluding a deal to swap Iran's nuclear fuel, although not addressing many of the key questions about Iran's nuclear program, demonstrates that Ankara can succeed in advancing diplomatic initiatives with Tehran. Second, as a Muslim majority state, Turkey is likely to be more trusted by Iran than others. In this regard, the current Islamic-oriented ruling party in Turkey - AKP - further augments Turkey's influence. Third, Turkey's position as a member of NATO enhances its credibility in communicating with both Iran and the West. Throughout the Cold War, Turkey's role in NATO was to serve as a counter-weight to Soviet influence in the region and as a strategic base of military resources. Today, Turkey could play a unique role within NATO to advance diplomatic initiatives such as re-engaging Iran, while representing the collective concerns and interests of NATO members. Finally, Turkey maintains good relations with both the United States and Iran. Despite Ankara's opposition to the United States-led effort to pass the latest round of sanctions against Iran in the United Nations Security Council, the strategic interests of Turkey and the United States for a stable, secure region remain aligned, warranting greater cooperation and collaboration between them. Turkey cannot afford the threat of regional violence that an Iran armed with nuclear weapons would engender. Playing a leadership role to curb Iran's nuclear ambition would not only advance Turkey's foreign policy doctrine, championed by Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, to seek "zero problems with neighbors," but would also safeguard its economic and security interests in the region. The increased sanctions against Iran have already affected Turkey's existing economic relationship with the Islamic Republic, with which Turkey's bilateral trade exceeds $10 billion per annum. Already, Turkey's refined oil exports to Iran have dropped significantly as a result of the international sanctions which Turkey cannot defy with impunity. But a violent conflict in Iran would lead to far worse consequences, such as considerable instability along Turkey's borders and increased threats to Turkey's significant economic interests throughout the region, including its ability to serve as an energy corridor from the Middle East and Central Asia to Europe. In order for Turkey to play a leadership role in addressing the Iranian nuclear dilemma, it must learn from its past mistakes. The Turkish-Brazilian deal achieved with Ankara to swap Iranian nuclear fuel was successful, but insufficient. On the one hand, it suffered from Turkey's miscommunication with the United States, and on the other hand the fact that it did not meet the full criteria that the U.S. and the international community had sought. In particular, Iran has continued to evade unimpeded inspections by the IAEA and, despite the Iran-Turkey-Brazil arrangement, Tehran has yet to disclose all of its nuclear plant locations. In addition, instead of ending enrichment of uranium in accordance with UN resolution 1929, Iran has pledged to continue enriching uranium beyond 20 percent, bringing it closer to weapons grade. Moreover, as confirmed by a recent report of the IAEA, Iran still refuses to comply with the demands of international inspectors to disclose the design plans of its nuclear plans and continues with its increasingly aggressive program to enrich uranium, which is unacceptable to the international community. Any future efforts by Turkey must be predicated on Ankara gaining the trust of the United States and significantly strengthening its coordination and cooperation with the global community. In this regard, the recent comment by Glyn Davies, United States Ambassador to the IAEA, suggesting that Turkey, and potentially Brazil as well, could play a meaningful role in the negotiations with Iran going forward, is a positive sign that the United States recognizes the importance of involving Turkey. However, for Turkey to ultimately succeed, it must learn to walk the moral high ground by setting a new tone to its regional leadership. The kind of heated rhetoric displayed by Prime Minister Erdogan in the wake of the flotilla incident, as well as following the United Nations Security Council resolution, harms Turkey's ability to reach its potential as an honest broker, not to speak of a regional and global leader. For example, Mr. Erdogan's comment during a breakfast meeting in Paris last April, that Israel was "the principle threat to peace" in the Middle East certainly did not serve to advance the cause of peace and security in the region. Turkey should avoid such rhetoric and instead gain moral authority by displaying political integrity and pragmatic leadership. It should start to do so by more publicly recognizing its own concerns regarding Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons. As Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said this past spring, "We don't want Iran to have nuclear weapons and we don't want any military tension in our region." This is a message that should be increasingly communicated to Iran, the United States and Israel. Turkey should also not dismiss Israel's genuine security concerns when it comes to Iran's nuclear ambitions. Even more, in the spirit of searching for a realistic solution, Turkey should delink the Iranian nuclear program from Israel's nuclear posture. Focusing on the question of Israel's nuclear capability will have the opposite effect of what Ankara would like to achieve. Israel will not relinquish its nuclear posture without a sustainable and comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace agreement in place that will include some of the leading Islamic states, especially Iran. Instead, Turkey should pro-actively call for both a stop to Iran's nuclear efforts and a comprehensive regional peace, which together would provide the foundation necessary for a Middle East free of nuclear weapons. By promoting regional peace and security in this way, Turkey could also begin to heal the current tensions with Israel, and provide Israelis with confidence in Turkey's diplomatic leadership vis-à-vis Iran. Finally, in coordinating its efforts with the United States and the international community, Turkey should be willing to convey to Iran the potential consequences of its continued defiance of the international community, including the likelihood of additional crippling sanctions by nations across the globe. Of course, there are those who will instinctively oppose Turkey playing a mediating role at this stage. They maintain that Turkey cannot address such problems when it continues to have unresolved conflicts of its own, including those with the Kurds, Armenians and Cypriots. Furthermore, many argue that the recent tensions between Turkey and the United States, and Turkey and Israel, obviate its ability to play such a leadership role in the region at this particular juncture. But such arguments too easily dismiss Turkey's emerging leadership role in the region and the significance of its national interests which are shared with the United States and Israel. Turkey has frustrated many in the West in recent months - and years - while claiming that it has been acting not only out of its self-interest, but the longer goal of regional stability and peace. But today, acting out of self or regional interest requires Turkey to cooperate with the United States and the international community and work to restore its close alliance with Israel. This is the only way for Turkey to enhance its credibility and be in a strong position to convey to Iran the ramifications of its pursuit of nuclear weapons, while providing an avenue for Tehran - should it relinquish its nuclear ambitions - to emerge from international isolation. With sanctions affecting and hurting Tehran, now is the time to capitalize on the potential of Turkey's leadership. If successful, Turkey will have averted a potential regional conflagration, safeguarded its security and economic interests, and solidified its role as the leading bridge between East and West.</span></span></span>




=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Communism K__</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**The 1ac has been misled by communist propaganda – Their depiction of America as fascist feeds the KGB’s secret plans – Their political strategy is doomed to fail because it has already been infiltrated and coopted**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 10</span>** (Jeffery, Brilliant analyst of Russian military policy, “Poisonous Ideas”, 6/18/10, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0618.html]])</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">There is one, simple, devastating reply to this criticism. The description of our country's system as fascist was originally set forth by the Communists. Much that people think today, was created by the disinformation specialists in Moscow and the strategists who guide the Communist Party USA, and coordinate Communist parties worldwide. Communist strategy is very sophisticated, and employs concepts as weapons. Contrary to popular opinion, the Communists who ruled the Soviet Union did not give up power. They merely went underground, to operate and coordinate their plans in secret. This operation, together with the collapse of Communism, was described by KGB defector Anatoliy Golitsyn in 1984. His book was titled New Lies for Old, wherein the future strategy of international Communism was laid bare. But nobody cared to accept the testimony of Golitsyn. More than 25 years ago I attended a Communist meeting on a university campus. I was invited to the meeting by one of my professors, who merely said that if I cared about education in the state of California I should come. At this meeting the future strategy of the Communist Party USA was explained. The speaker said that they were "infiltrating the Democratic Party in order to take it over through its left wing. He spoke of electing a stealth Communist president who would exploit a severe economic downturn in order to promote the nationalization of major industries, like health care or the oil industry. Through this process, the speaker noted, the "dictatorship of the bourgeoisie" would be curtailed and everything would be run like the Post Office. It sounded quite incredible at the time, as Ronald Reagan was president.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**Calls for military cuts are product of communist infiltration aimed at bringing down America**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 10</span>** (Jeffery, Brilliant analyst of Russian military policy, “Poisonous Ideas”, 6/18/10, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0618.html]])</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The Communists want to bring down capitalism. To do this they have infiltrated our schools, offering an agenda of multiculturalism, environmentalism, gay rights, advocacy for illegal aliens, and the promise of a world without nuclear weapons. At every step the critique of the Left pushes us into further "social spending" so that our federal budget is increasingly committed to non-military projects. In time we will find that cutbacks can only come from vital military programs. In that event, if the country should ever recognize its danger and turn against the domestic Communist apparatus, the Communists would call upon the military resources of their "friends" abroad.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**This is a suicidal policy that ensures Russian attack**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 10</span>** (Jeffery, Brilliant analyst of Russian military policy, “Communism on the March”, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0611.html]])</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In light of this, Lenin conceived of a special maneuver. He proposed that Communism might appear to lose control of the Soviet government, and Russia might swerve toward capitalism. "The deaf and dumb will believe it," he emphasized. "Telling the truth is a bourgeois superstition. On the contrary, it is the end that sanctifies the lie. While chasing profits in the Soviet market, the world's capitalists will close their eyes to reality and thus change into deaf and dumb blind men. They will give us credits that will help us to maintain Communist Parties in their countries and, by supplying us with essential materials, will rebuild the war industry we need for our future victorious attacks on our suppliers. In other words, they will be working toward their own suicide."</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**U.S.-Russia war is the only existential risk**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bostrom 02</span>** <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">(Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">)</span></span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**The alternative is to reject the language of the 1ac – This comes first**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 10</span>** (Jeffery, Brilliant analyst of Russian military policy, “Poisonous Ideas”, 6/18/10, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0618.html]])</span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">Suppose you were tasked with bringing down a civilization, and your only weapon was language. Could you accomplish your goal? Quite clearly, the answer is yes. To defeat a civilization language suffices if it can be used to divide man from women, parent from child, the owners of businesses from the employees, the state from the citizens, and God from the Church. This, of course, has been the pattern of Communist subversion for the better part of a century. And even though people imagine that Communism is dead, it is very much alive. Last week I wrote about Communism on the march. It is impossible to understand the Left without understanding the role of the Communist Party. It is difficult to write about this subject, as most readers are not educated in the history or theory of Communism. They do not know Communist tactics, which rely on the use of language to distort meanings, to confuse and stupefy political speech and thought. As Communist generals have attested, the various "active measures" initiated by the Communist Party Soviet Union during the 1960s and 1970s, were not simply disinformation programs. The primary task was to plant ideas that would corrupt people's thinking, leading them down a variety of false paths.</span></span>




=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Courts CP 1NC</span>__</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The United States Supreme Court should rule that (X) violates the United States constitution under the Kellog-Briand Pact and order its withdrawal. </span>**</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Competes via net benefits </span>**</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Solvency: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">COUNTERPLAN ISN’T NORMAL MEANS – SUPREME COURT DOESN’T CHOOSE TO EXERCISE AUTHORITY OVER THE MILITARY, BUT IT COULD </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Burrelli and Feder 9** *Specialist in Military Manpower Policy **Legislative Attorney (David F. and Jody, “Homosexuals and the U.S. Military : Current Issues,” July 22nd, 2009, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL30113.pdf)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A tradition of deference by the courts to Congress and the Executive in the organization and regulation of the military dates from the earliest days of the republic. Motivating development of this constitutional doctrine was the separation of powers among the executive, judicial, and legislative branches. The Constitution grants exclusive authority to raise and support the armed forces to Congress, which has “broad and sweeping” power to make all laws necessary for that purpose. Similarly, the Constitution grants exclusive command of the armed forces to the executive branch, designating the President as “commander-in-chief.”40 Nowhere does the Constitution delineate a specific role for the judiciary in military matters. Judicial authority over the armed forces arises only indirectly as arbiter of constitutional rights. Thus, the policy of extraordinary deference “to the professional judgment of military authorities” has emerged from case law,41 particularly “when legislative action under the congressional authority to raise and support armies and make rules and regulations for their governance is challenged.”42 Originally framed as a doctrine of noninterference, the early Court avoided all substantive review of military disciplinary proceedings, provided only that jurisdictional prerequisites were met. A more skeptical judicial attitude emerged during the Warren Court era, which frequently questioned the scope and operation of military rules, particularly as applied to on-base civilians and non-duty-related conduct of service members. But the pendulum returned to what has been described as the “ modern military deference doctrine” with a series of Burger Court decisions in the mid-1970s. Rather than abandoning all substantive review, the current judicial approach is to apply federal constitutional standards in a more lenient fashion which, with rare exception, favors military needs for obedience and discipline over the rights of the individual servicemen. “The fundamental necessity for obedience, and the consequent necessity for imposition of discipline, may render permissible within the military that which would be constitutionally impermissible outside it.”43</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">THE ROBERTS COURT WILL DEFER TO THE MILITARY NOW</span>

McCarty, 10- **Recipient of the Jones Day Award for Best Researched and Summated Article (Richard T., “Note: Winter V. Nrdc: the Navy, Submarines, Active Sonar, and Whales - an Analysis of the Ninth Circuit Review and the Roberts Court Extension of the Military Deference Doctrine,” 47 Hous. L. Rev. 489, Spring 10, Lexis)**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Prior to the Winter decision, observers predicted that the Roberts Court was likely to continue this trend of invoking the military deference doctrine. n208 In considering a First Amendment challenge to the Solomon Amendment, which withdrew federal funding from any institution of higher education that denied military recruiters equal access to recruit students, the Chief Justice cited Rostker for the proposition that judicial deference reaches its high point when Congress legislates in its role of overseeing and maintaining the military. n209 In fact, the Winter decision served as an extension of the military deference doctrine, providing great weight to the opinions and professional expertise of those in the [*512] Navy. n210 In his majority opinion, the Chief Justice explained that the Court "gives great deference to the professional judgment of military authorities concerning the relative importance of a particular military interest." n211 Noting that the record contained "declarations from some of the Navy's most senior officers," the Chief Justice explained that the Court "accepted these officers' assertions that the use of MFA sonar under realistic conditions during training exercises is of the utmost importance to the Navy and the Nation." n212 Chief Justice Roberts provided the traditional explanation that deference to the military and its interests does "not always trump other considerations," but "in this case ... the proper determination of where the public interest lies does not strike us as a close question.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">LINK - COUNTERPLAN SPILLS OVER TO END DEFERENCE</span>

Gilbert 98 **– Lieutenant Colonel in the USAF Academy, MSBA from Boston University, JD from McGeorge School of Law, Harvard Law School (Michael H, 8 USAFA J. Leg. Stud. 197, AD)**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Today, the military institution stands as a force to be reckoned with by government leaders in the formation of national and military policy and strategy. Its size and penetration into every aspect of American life since the 1950s have made the military an unexpected influence over the nation's domestic and foreign policies. As an institution, the military wields pervasive influence that can thwart effective oversight by traditional legislative and bureaucratic processes normally relied upon by the legislative and executive branches. The federal judiciary contributes to the military confidence of their authority by being unwilling to review cases presenting issues challenging military authority and control. Were the judiciary willing to pierce the seemingly impenetrable military shell, the military might not possess the same confidence.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">DEFERENCE DEVASTATES READINESS AND CMR – KILLS QUALITY RECRUITMENT AND CARVES OUT THE MILITARY FROM CIVIL SOCIETY</span>

Gilbert 98 – **Lieutenant Colonel USAF Academy; MSBA, Boston University; J.D., McGeorge School of Law; LL.M., Harvard Law School (Michael H., 1997, “The Military and the Federal Judiciary: an Unexplored Part of the Civil-Military Relations Triangle”, 8 USAFA J. Leg. Stud. 197, Lexis Law)**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">During drastic post-Cold War downsizing and greater operational commitments in a larger number of foreign nations than ever, the military must have the most qualified members possible. Quality is derived from obtaining highly educated individuals, providing specialized training and promoting and retaining the very best. If the public perceives the military policy-makers as an all-powerful force that can ignore normal legal precepts, they may avoid joining the all-volunteer armed forces unless they are in the most dire circumstances [*202] or without reasonable alternative. for this reason. In this way, the military may lose some of its best troops. In turn, this could further isolate those that remain in the military from their parent society and foster within the military a belief that they are different than society because they are treated differently by a judiciary that characterizes them as a separate and distinct community. Most importantly, however, military members deserve the protection of the judiciary, which is part of the checks and balances of our government. n14 Without the check of the judiciary, the executive and legislative branches can be out of balance with the Constitution and contravene the basic intent of our system of government.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">HEG IS GOOD</span>

Thayer 06 **(Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, "In Defense of Primacy", lexis)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power--Rome, Britain or the United States today. Scholars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we consider the current international order--free trade, a robust monetary regime, increasing respect for human rights, growing democratization--is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages followed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. Without U.S. power, the liberal order created by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Ral Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washington and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists , most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated relationships aligned --between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars.</span>


=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Environmental Security Kritik</span>__</span>= 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> THEIR RHETORIC OF ENVIRONMENTAL CRISIS DRIVES A LOGIC OF ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY THAT DEMANDS INEFFECTIVE STATE RESPONSES TO MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL THREATS </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ole Waever, 95,  </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Senior Researcher at the Center for Peace & Conflict Research, On Security, p. 63-64 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Central to the arguments for the conceptual innovation of environmen¬tal or ecological security41 is its mobilization potential. As Buzan points out, the concept of national security "has an enormous power as an instrument of social and political mobilization" and, therefore, "the obvious reason for putting environmental issues into the security agenda is the possible magni¬tude of the threats posed, and the need to mobilize urgent and unprece¬dented responses to them. The security label is a useful way both of sig¬nalling danger and setting priority, and for this reason alone it is likely to per¬sist in the environmental debates."42 Several analysts have, however, warned against securitization of the environmental issue for some of these very rea¬sons, and some of the arguments I present here fit into the principled issue of securitization/desecuritization as discussed earlier in this chapter. A first argument against the environment as a security issue, mentioned, for exam¬ple, by Buzan, is that environmental threats are generally unintentional.43 This, by itself, does not make the threats any less serious, although it does take them out of the realm of will. As I pointed out earlier, the field of secu¬rity is constituted around relationships between wills: It has been, conven¬tionally, about the efforts of one will to (allegedly) override the sovereignty of another, forcing or tempting the latter not to assert its will in defense of its sovereignty. The contest of concern, in other words, is among strategic actors imbued with intentionality, and this has been the logic around which the whole issue of security has been framed. In light of my earlier discussion, in which I stressed that "security" is not a </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">reflection of our everyday sense of the word but, rather, a specific field with traditions, the jump to environ¬mental security becomes much larger than might appear at first to be the case. I do not present this as an argument against the concept but, rather, as a way of illuminating or even explaining the debate over it. Second in his critique of the notion of environmental security, Richard Moss points out that the concept of "security" tends to imply that defense from the problem is to be provided by the state: The most serious consequence of thinking of global change and other envi¬ronmental problems as threats to security is that the sorts of centralized gov¬ernmental responses by powerful and autonomous state organizations that are appropriate for security threats are inappropriate for addressing most environmental problems. When one is reacting to the threat of organized external violence, military and intelligence institutions are empowered to take the measures required to repel the threat. By this same logic, when responding to environmental threats, response by centralized regulatory agencies would seem to be logical. Unfortunately, in most cases this sort of response is not the most efficient or effective way of addressing environ¬mental problems, particularly those that have a global character.44 Moss goes on to warn that "the instinct for centralized state responses to security threats is highly inappropriate for responding effectively to glob¬al environmental problems."45 It might, he points out, even lead to mili¬tarization of environmental problems .46 A third warning, not unrelated to the previous two, is the tendency for the concept of security to produce thinking in terms of us-them, which could then be captured by the logic of nationalism. Dan Deudney writes that "the 'nation' is not an empty vessel or blank slate waiting to be filled or scripted, but is instead profoundly linked to war and 'us vs. them' thinking ( . . . ) Of course, taking the war and 'us vs. them' thinking out of national¬ism is a noble goal. But this may be like taking sex out of 'rock and roll,' a project whose feasibility declines when one remembers that 'rock and roll' was originally coined as a euphemism for sex."47 The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">tendency toward "us vs. them" thinking, and the general tradition of viewing threats as coming from outside a state's own borders, are, in this instance, also likely to direct attention away from one's own contributions to environmental problems." Finally, there is the more political warning that the concept of security is basically defensive in nature, a status quo concept defending that which is, even though it does not necessarily deserve to be protected. In a paradoxical way, this politically conservative bias has also led to warnings by some that the concept of environmental security could become a dangerous tool of the "totalitarian left," which might attempt to relaunch itself on the basis of envi¬ronmental collectivism." Certainly, there is some risk that the logic of ecol¬ogy, with its religious potentials and references to holistic categories, survival and the linked significance of everything, might easily lend itself to totali¬tarian projects, where also the science of ecology has focused largely on how to constrain, limit, and control activities in the name of the environment.50 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT DIMINISHES BEING AND MAKES EXTINCTION THROUGH NUCLEAR WAR AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESTRUCTION INEVITABLE </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">McWhorter, 92  </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Ladelle, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State University Heidegger and the Earth, ed. by Ladelle McWhorter) </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">What is most illustrative is often also what is most common. Today, on all sides of ecological debate we hear, with greater and greater frequency, the word management. On the one hand, business people want to manage natural resources so as to keep up profits. On the other hand, conservationists want to manage natural resources so that there will be plenty of coal and oil and recreational facilities for future generations. These groups and factions within them debate vociferously over which management policies are the best, that is, the most efficient and manageable. Radical envi¬ronmentalists damn both groups and claim it is human population growth and rising expectations that are in need of management. But wherever we look, wherever we listen, we see and hear the term management. We are living in a veritable age of management. Before a middle class child graduates from high school she or he is already preliminarily trained in the arts of weight management, stress management, and time management, to name just a few. As we approach middle age we continue to practice these essential arts, refining and adapting our regulatory regimes as the pressures of life increase and the body begins to break down. We have become a society of managers - of our homes, careers, portfolios, estates, even of our own bodies - so is it surprising that we set ourselves up as the managers of the earth itself? And yet, as thoughtful earth-dwellers we must ask, what does this signify? In numerous essays - in particular the beautiful 1953 essay, "The Question Concerning Technology" - Heidegger speaks of what he sees as the danger of dangers in this, our age. This danger is a kind of forgetfulness, a forgetfulness that Heidegger thought could result not only in nuclear disaster or environmental catastrophe, but in the loss of what makes us the kind of beings we are, beings who can think and who can stand in thoughtful relationship to things. This forgetfulness is not a forgetting of facts and their relationships; it is a forgetfulness of something far more important and far more fundamental than that. He called it forgetfulness of 'the mystery'.  </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ALTERNATIVE TEXT- DO NOTHING AS A MEANS OF REFUSING TECHNOLOGICAL THOUGHT. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">SMALL CHANGES LIKE THE AFF DO NOTHING TO SOLVE THE UNDERLYING PROBLEM. WE MUST EMBRACE THE PARADOX OF INACTION AND INEVITABLE CRISIS TO BREAK THE WILL TO CONTROL. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">McWhorter 92 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Ladelle, Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies Department of Philosophy University of Richmond, “Guilt as Management Technology: A Call to Heideggerian Reflection,” Heidegger and the Earth, 1-9) </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our usual response to such prophecies of doom is to ignore them or, when we cannot do that, to scramble to find some way to manage our problems, some quick solution, some technological fix. But over and over again new resource management techniques, new solutions, new technologies disrupt delicate systems even further, doing still more damage to a planet already dangerously out of ecological balance. Our ceaseless interventions seem only to make things worse, to perpetuate a cycle of human activity followed by, ecological disaster followed by human intervention followed by a new disaster of another kind. In fact, it would appear that our trying to do things, change things, fix things cannot be the solution, because it is part of the problem itself. But, if we cannot act to solve our problems, what should we do? Heidegger's work is a call to reflect to think in some way other than calculatively, technologically, pragmatically. Once we begin to move with and into Heidegger's call, and begin to see our trying to seize control and solve problems as itself a problematic approach if we still believe that thinking's only real purpose is to function as a prelude to action, we who attempt to think will twist within the agonizing grip of paradox, feeling nothing but frustration, unable to conceive of ourselves as anything but paralyzed. However, as so many peoples before us have known, paradox is not only a trap; it is also a scattering point and passageway. Paradox invites examination of its own constitution (hence of the patterns of thinking within which it occurs) and thereby breaks a way of thinking open, revealing the configurations of power that propel it and hold it on track. And thus it makes possible the dissipation of that power and the deflection of thinking into new paths and new possibilities. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Heidegger frustrates us. At a time when the stakes are so very high and decisive action is so loudly and urgently called for, Heidegger apparently calls us to do- nothing. If we get beyond the revulsion and anger that such a call initially inspires and actually examine the feasibility of response, we begin to undergo the frustration attendant upon paradox: how is it possible, we ask, to choose, to will, to do nothing? The call itself places in question the bimodal logic of activity and passivity; it points up the paradoxical nature of our passion for action, of our passion for maintaining control. The call itself suggests that our drive for acting decisively and forcefully is part of what must be thought through, that the narrow option of will versus surrender is one of the power configurations of current thinking that must be allowed to dissipate. </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span> </span></span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]