[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Depending on judge paradigm we run the following affirmatives.

======﻿Drones Aff====== 
The United States federal government should withdraw all targeted killing and assassination forces from the topically designated countries. (see [[2010-2011 — University School (NJ) — Shagun Kukreja & Amna Tariq|http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2010-2011+%E2%80%94+University+School+%28NJ%29+%E2%80%94+Shagun+Kukreja+%26+Amna+Tariq]] fore cites)

======Afghanistan Aff====== 

**PLAN: The United States federal government should eliminate all of its military presence in Afghanistan.**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S. is surging troops into Afghanistan </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Farmer 10**</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">/Ben Farmer, writer for The Telegraph, “US troops in Afghanistan surpass number in Iraq”, The Telegraph, March 25, 2010, <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/afghanistan/7762893/US-troops-in-Afghanistan-surpass-number-in-Iraq.html>/ </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. US occupation of Afghanistan undermines the central government killing stability.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Naiman 10**</span> (Robert Naiman is the policy director at Just Foreign Policy and a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, “'Going Local' in Afghanistan”, Foreign Policy in Focus, February 17, 2010, http://www.fpif.org/articles/going_local_in_afghanistan) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. Troop withdrawal is vital to Karzai’s Taliban integration goals and destroys the fuel of against foreign occupation that ignites unrest. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite">**Khouri 7/3/10**</span> (Rami G. Khouri, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.dailystar.com.lb/article.asp?edition_id=10&categ_id=5&article_id=116660#axzz0tcvDWAil]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) HA</span></span>
You can contact me at [[mailto:Toddwickizer@gmail.com|Toddwickizer@gmail.com]]

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. US withdrawal leads Afghan central government to resolve civil war. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Naiman 10**</span> (Robert Naiman is the policy director at Just Foreign Policy and a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, “'Going Local' in Afghanistan”, Foreign Policy in Focus, February 17, 2010, http://www.fpif.org/articles/going_local_in_afghanistan) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">4. Conflict in Afghanistan escalates globally. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lal 2006</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Rollie, PhD, Asst. Prof. @ Vlerick Management School – Leuven, “Central Asia and its Asian </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Neighbors,” [[http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=A450305&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. US occupation is the biggest cause of terrorism.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="tagChar">**Pena 2009**</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">- Senior Fellow at the Independent Institute (Charles, “Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?” 12/09/09 </span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt;"> )</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. Terrorist attacks lead to extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Alexander 2003**</span> (Yonah, prof. and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the US, “Terrorism Myths and Realities”, Washington Times, 8/27, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/commentary/20030827-084256-8999r.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1. U.S. presence in Afghanistan causes Pakistan insurgency.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Bandow**<span style="font-weight: normal;">, senior fellow at the Cato Institute,</span> **2009**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Doug Bandow is a senior fellow athe Cato Institute. He is a former special assistant to President Reagan and the author of several books, including Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire. Cato Institute: “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan” October 31, 2009 [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924]])</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. Pakistan instability causes nuclear proliferation**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Albright**<span style="font-weight: normal;">, physicist and President of the ISIS,</span> **2001** </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">/David is President of the Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS) in Washington, D.C. He directs the project work of ISIS, heads its fundraising efforts, and chairs its board of directors. In addition, he regularly publishes and conducts scientific research. He has written numerous assessments on secret nuclear weapons programs throughout the world. //Securing Pakistan's Nuclear Weapons Complex//: Paper1 commissioned and sponsored by the Stanley Foundation for the 42nd Strategy for Peace Conference, Strategies for Regional Security (South Asia Working Group), October 25-27, 2001, [[http://www.isis-online.org/publications/terrorism/stanleypaper.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 9pt;">3. ﻿Extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Utgoff 2** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Victor A Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer 2002, Survival, p. 87-90 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline">1. US presence is the vital internal link to de-stabilizing Pakistan </span></span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span class="underline">Malou </span><span class="cite">Innocent</span><span class="underline">is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute, “Myth v. Fact: Afghanistan” – Huffington Post – September 4th, 200</span><span class="cite">9</span><span class="underline">– http://www.huffingtonpost.com/malou-innocent/myth-v-fact-afghanistan_b_277411.html.</span>** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2. NATO models US action. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__IRNA__**, Islamic Republic News Agency, November 26, **2006**, (distributed by United Press International newswire) lexis</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. The violence is linear: the larger the US presence, the greater the Pashtun’s discontent</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Selig </span><span class="cite">**Harrison**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, Director of the Asia Program at the Washington-based Center for International Policy, 10-28-</span>**200<span class="cite">9</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – [[http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/opinion/?id=35320]].</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">4. Withdrawal solves instability and precludes the reemergence of al-Qaeda</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Bandow,**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former assistant to pres. Reagan, 1/6/</span>**2010**</span>

=Negative= 
======Substantial T====== 
======Presense T====== 
======Non-Combat T====== 
======﻿Presense = Troops T====== 
======Appeasement DA====== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A. Uniqueness - Obama is a strong commander-in-chief. No troop withdrawals now. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Guardiano</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> - Writer and analyst who focuses on political, military, and public-policy issues. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[[http://spectator.org/people/john-r-guardiano|__John R. Guardiano__]] “[[http://spectator.org/archives/2010/02/04/obamas-defense-budget|__Obama's Defense Budget__]],” __The American Spectator__, 2.4.10 @ 6:07AM, pg. [[http://spectator.org/archives/2010/02/04/obamas-defense-budget]]] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">B. Link - A drawdown of troops signals weakness. Enemies will respond to his weakness </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Morris 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> - Former political adviser to Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.) and President Bill Clinton </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Dick Morris, “Obama's Weakness Issue,” __RealClearPolitics,__ </span><span class="dateline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">June 24, 2009, pg. [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/06/24/obamas_weakness_issue_97145.html]]]</span> </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C. Impact - Weak Obama makes global wars inevitable. One test of resolve will open the floodgates </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Hanson 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History @ Hoover Institution, Stanford University </span><span class="CharChar3"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Victor Davis Hanson, “Change, Weakness, Disaster, Obama: Answers from Victor Davis Hanson,” Interview with the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon|Oregon Patriots]]</span>, __Resistnet.com__, December 7, 2009 at 3:52pm, pg. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon/forum/topics/change-weakness-disaster-obama/showLastReply]]</span>.] </span></span></span>

======Start DA====== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">START prevents an Israeli preemptive strike on Iran</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**RIA Novosti**</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, Sept 22 </span><span class="cite">**2009**</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, “Can Medvedev help Obama?,” lexis </span></span>

**EXTINCITON BITHES**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Ivashov 2007** </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(General Leonid, vice-president of the Academy on geopolitical affairs. He was the chief of the department for General affairs in the Soviet Union’s ministry of Defense, secretary of the Council of defense ministers of the Community of independant states (CIS), chief of the Military cooperation department at the Russian federation’s Ministry of defense and Joint chief of staff of the Russian armies, Iran: the Threat of a Nuclear War, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=5309]])</span></span>
======Allied Prolif DA====== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A. Uniqueness & Link – strong military presence reassures our allies. That maintains alliances which prevent them from making moves to get their own nukes </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Thompson et al ‘2</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Senior Research Staff Member, Robert J. Atwell, Robert Bovey, William E. Cralley, James Delaney, Michael P. Fischerkeller, Kongdan Oh Hassig, Charles Hawkins, and Gene Porter, Institute for Defense Analysis, Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD”, July, [[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf]])</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">B. Decline in extended deterrence causes global proliferation. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Record ‘4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Jeffrey, Prof. Strategy and Int’l. Security – U.S. Air Force’s Air War College and Former Professional Staff – Senate Armed Services Committee, Cato Policy Analysis #519, 7-8, “Nuclear Deterrence, Preventive War, and Counterproliferation”, 7-8, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa519.pdf]])</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C. The impact is global nuclear war. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Taylor ‘1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html) </span></span>

====Rename Tactical nuclear weapons CP==== 
Renmae TNW to Foward delpoyment
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Capello, Hall and Lambert ’02</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[John, USAF Major, Assistant Director of Operations/Chief Long Range Planning. Gwendolyn, USAF Lieutenant Colonel, Commander of the Dean of Faculty Squadron Section and a Sequential Tour Officer at the Air Force Academy. Stephen, USAF Major, Special Air Missions Pilot with the 99th Airlift Squadron at Andrews AFB, MD “Tactical Nuclear Weapons: Debunking the Mythology” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://74.125.47.132/search?q=cache:AJAFouZ1UxkJ:www.usafa.af.mil/df/inss/OCP/OCP46.pdf+%22yost%22+%22tactical+nuclear+weapons%22&cd=3&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us]]]</span></span>

Fearing the bomb 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kimball ’03</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Daryl, Executive Director of the Arms Control Association, Nov. 7, “Arms Experts Rap Congress for Backing Bush Administration's Nuclear Weapons Ambitions; A "Setback" for Addressing Global Nuclear” [[http://www.armscontrol.org/print/2543]]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rajaraman ’02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Ran, Professor of Theoretical Physics, JNU, April 22, “Ban battlefield nuclear weapons” [[http://www.hindu.com/2002/04/22/stories/2002042200431000.htm]]]</span></span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]