=September-October= 
[[toc]]
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom: #cccccc 1px solid; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">DUE PROCESS AC </span>=== 

OBS 1:
Definition of charge:
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.
"To make an...in the indictment"

Value: Justice
VC: maintaining consistency with the law

First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.
"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."

Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?
"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."


Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)
"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".


CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.
First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."


Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.
"forty years after...in resources remain."


Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>
"By most accounts...to receive services."


Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.
The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"Perhaps the most...look as follows."

The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Util AC</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obs 1. Definition of charge</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"Charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge>.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"a. to make an accusation against...charged in the indictment"</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Value: Justice</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">VC: Minimizing suffering</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1. State has first order responsibility to protect citizens</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy, Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"If one truly...to save many."</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">2. The negative may not challenge the decision rule presented in the 1AC as long as the decision rule is structurally reciprocal</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">CI. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">A. Reducing crime is essential to this minimizing of suffering</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Scott and Steinberg. "Social Welfare and Fairness in Juvenile Crime Regulation" Louisiana Law Review 71 La. L. Rev. 35 (Fall, 2010)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"In cost-benefit evaluations...law enforcement and criminal proceedings."</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">B. The perception of procedural justice is an important link to stopping crime. When actors view criminal procedure as fair and legitimate, they are significantly more likely to obey the law.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Segadelli. ACCESS TO JUSTICE: Minding the Gap: Extending Adult Jury Trial Rights to Adolescents While Maintaining a Childhood Commitment to Rehabilitation, 2010 Seattle Journal for Social Justice.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"Procedural justice theory...pressure to conform."</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Perceived legitimacy impacts the public at large, so my impacts go way beyond recidivism.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director at the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], "Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice," Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"Fair process norms...controlling the procedures."</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Third, recidivism studies are flawed. Even if they do prove that recidivism increases, this is just because in the Affirmative world I am deterring more offenders from committing the crime in the first place.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Thus adults courts increase perception of fairness to juveniles.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">First, the widespread use of shackling in half of state jurisdictions worsens perception.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bernard P. Perlmutter, "UNCHAIN THE CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING, 2007 Barry Law Review; Assistant Professor of Clinical Legal Education University of Miami School of Law, Director of the Children & Youth Law Clinic</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"Dr. Marty Beyer...goals of court intervention."</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Second, since attorneys in juvenile court do not represent their clients zealously and cooperate with the judge and prosecutor, juveniles feel treated unfairly</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Barbara FEDDERS, LOSING HOLD OF THE GUIDING HAND: INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL IN JUVENILE DELINQUENCY REPRESNTATION, Lewis & Clark Law Review, 2010; Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Law.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">"As suggested by...predominate in juvenile court."</span>

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom: #cccccc 1px solid; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Recidivism NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"I ask the...as a burden."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.
"Studies have found...the short run."
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School

"experts have identified...and community reintegration.

Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"Findings from several...tried as adults."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
"The effects of...cannot be understood."

CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison
Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"


===<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 23px;">Competency NC</span>=== 


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Competency to stand trial is a fundamental right.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Elizabeth S. Scott[University of Virginia School of Law] and Thomas Grisso [University of Massachusetts Medical Center] “Developmental Incompetence, Due Process and Juvenile Justice Policy.” 2004. University of Virginia Law School.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> "It is generally...to stand trial."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> I contend that juveniles are not competent to stand trial.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> First, juveniles lack multiple markers of competency.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"Our results indicate...ethnicity or SES."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> If juveniles are immature, then they are incompetent to stand trial. This is consistent with Supreme Court precedent.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"The issue that...for criminal adjudication."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Second, A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"We believe that...rationally with counsel."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>=== 




===<span style="font-size: 120%;">KANSAS CP</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">A) IS THE TEXT: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The USFG will implement due process protections in juvenile courts consistent with those applied in the state of Kansas. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">B) IS THE COMPETITION: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The Kansas juvenile system operates separately from the adult judicial system in Kansas. The system of prisoner intake is different, the system of punishment is different, and the appointment of a court advocate is different. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">C) IS THE SOLVENCY:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The Kansas System guarantees all of the due process rights lacking in other systems. Treaster ‘09]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">D) </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">If the referral worker cho... from criminal court.95 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">This means that the affirmative has no unique offense, since separate adult and juvenile criminal justice processes can offer equal due process protections.</span>
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]