[[toc]]




==2AC Japan Alliance== 


**The alliance is resilient – can overcome anything**
**Bisley, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of IR at La Trobe University (Nick, “Securing the "Anchor of Regional Stability"? The Transformation of the US-Japan Alliance and East Asian Security”, Contemporary Southeast Asia: A Journal of International & Strategic Affairs, April 2008, Vol. 30, No. 1, p. 13-14, KONTOPOULOS) PDF </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The </span>US-Japan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">relationship</span> stands ...similar to that born by the United Kingdom.


**Link Turn - Japan doesn’t like BMD**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Monterey Institute, 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, March, “BMD and Japan”, http://www.nti.org/f_wmd411/f2d3_4.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Despite these efforts in missile defense, ...</span><span class="underline">critical of missile defense. </span>

**DPJ likes de-nuclearization and control Japanese politics**
**Wittner, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of History at SUNY-Albany (Lawrence, “Japan’s Election and Anti-Nuclear Momentum”, Foreign Policy in Focus, September 4th 2009, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/japans_election_and_anti-nuclear_momentum]], KONTOPOULOS) </span>
Although <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the</span> smashing <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">victory of the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> that has recently transitioned from an apparently utopian vision to pragmatic politics. 


**Alt. Cause - Futenma is the single issue harming the alliance**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 7/28</span></span>/10 –** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Sheila A., Senior fellow for Japan Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, July 28, 2010, “Successful U.S.-Japan Agenda Must Meet Public Expectations,” http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Our shared interests are broad, and the ...</span><span class="underline"> so many U.S. military bases on the tiny prefecture's main island.</span></span>

==2AC European BMD Answer== 



**European BMD causes Russia to withdraw from the INF creating global nuclear conflicts, terrorism, and collapse of the NPT** 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Arbatov** 7</span></span> (Corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, RUSSIA IN GLOBAL AFFAIRS VOL. 5 • No. 3 • JULY – SEPTEMBER, AV) 
Meanwhile, <span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S. plans to …. several major capitals of the world.</span> </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>

I**ndependently, European BMD would spark conflict with Russia – perceived as fencing them in**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sieff 7</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Martin, UPI Senior News Analyst, Feb 15, “Why Russia Fears Ballistic Missile Defense”, http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Why_Russia_Fears_Ballistic_Missile_Defense_999.html)  </span>

<span class="underline">Why does Russia oppose so fiercely ….</span><span class="boldunderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is a challenge to Moscow by Washington.</span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span></span>
**Russia would retaliate at Poland and the Czech Republic if the US put BMD in Europe**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coyle and Samson 8</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">(Philip, Senior Advisor to the World Security Institute, recognized expert on U.S. and worldwide military research, development, and testing, on operational military matters, and on national security policy and defense spending, and Victoria, Center for Defense Information, teaches on national security issues at the graduate International Relations program at St. Mary's University, April 23, “Missile Defense Malfunction: Why the Proposed U.S. Missile Defenses in Europe Will Not Work”, Ethics & International Affairs, Volume 22.1 (Spring 2008), http://www.cceia.org/resources/journal/22_1/special_report/001.html)</span>
Taken more broadly, <span class="underline">Europe ….enclave of Kaliningrad on the Polish border. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Russia war would lead to extinction </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, March 31, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html] </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President ….</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. </span>


==2AC Obama Good Politics== 

**GOP would support the plan – saves money and reduces deficit**
<span class="cite">**Garofalo 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Pat, July 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">th</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, “Conservatives Profess Support For Defense Budget Cuts, But Still Want Weapons The Pentagon Calls Unnecessary”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/2010/07/08/isakson-palin-defens/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">) </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">With the country facing unsustainable</span> ...</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> Pentagon has repeatedly said it doesn’t want should be cut:</span>


**Spending is their number one concern**
**<span class="cite">UPI 1/1</span>/11 –** United Press International, “GOP resolution: Cut government spending”, http://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2011/01/01/GOP-resolution-Cut-government-spending/UPI-38321293885696/

WASHINGTON, Jan. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. <span class="underline">'</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-weight: normal;">...</span>' "<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Garamond,serif;">job one is to stop wasteful</span> Washington <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">spending</span></span>." 


**Thats key to the agenda**
**<span class="cite">Zelizer 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Julian, Prof Public Affairs @ Princeton, CNN, 1/13)</span>
Obama will have to define ...<span class="SubtitleChar"> Capitol Hill and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">establish the groundwork for future compromise</span></span>.


I**ncreasing the size of the agenda makes it more likely to pass – Distracts the GOP**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohn 9 </span></span>- Jonathon, 3/11/09 [The New Republic, “The Case for Presidential Multi-Tasking”, http://blogs.tnr.com/tnr/blogs/the_treatment/archive/2009/03/11/the-case-for-presidential-multi-tasking.aspx]**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My friend William </span><span class="underline">Galston is not ...</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">landslide presidential election while building up huge congressional majorities</span>

**Obama will use Gates to shield himself**
<span class="Author-Date">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ricks, 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Pulitzer Prize Winning Former Reporter for the Wall Street Journal (Thomas E., “Gates in trouble with GOP?”, Foreign Policy, April 3rd 2009, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/04/03/gates_in_trouble_with_gop]], KONTOPOULOS) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Until now, Defense Secretary <span class="underline">Robert Gates ...</span>predict, Republicans will be crying, "Bobby, we hardly knew ye."</span>

**Winners Win**
**Singer 9** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(an editor of MyDD, a position he has held since November 2005. Singer is a Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law, 3/3/09 (Johnathan, My direct Democracy, By expending capital, Obama Grows His Capital, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]]</span>) </span>

<span class="cardtext-underlined">Peter Hart gets at a key point.... anything from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq. </span>