=Affirmative= 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The use of private military contractors, commonly known as PMCs, is increasing in Iraq </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Salzman 2008 -- ZOE SALZMAN, Clinical Contract Attorney @ Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, J.D. Magna Cum Laude from NYU Law, “PRIVATE MILITARY CONTRACTORS AND THE TAINT OF A MERCENARY REPUTATION”, 2008, http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv2/groups/public/@nyu_law_website__journals__journal_of_international_law_and_politics/documents/documents/ecm_pro_058877.pdf </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Ambiguous legal status and the lack of accountability grants PMCs immunity for their actions. This is used by the pentagon to bypass jurisdiction and oversight. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rothe and Ross (August 1, 2010 ).[ Dawn L. Rothe , Old Dominion University. College of Arts And Letters. Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice. Jeffery Ian Ross, Ph.D. a professor, writer, and consultant specializing in policing, political crime, "Private Military Contractors, Crime, and the Terrain of Unaccountability.". Justice quarterly (0741-8825), 27 (4), p. 593. /hnasser] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The issue is more pressing than ever. PMCs make every conflict escalate faster – they prompt first strikes and free market arms races.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Singer 2002 (P.W. Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution. Corporate Warriors: The Rise of the Privatized Military Industry and Its Ramifications for International Security International Security 26.3 186-220 TBC 6/26/10) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Thus we offer the following plan: </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The United States Supreme Court should grant writ of certiorari to Saleh at al. v. Titan et al. and mandate the prohibition of private military contractors operating in the Republic of Iraq on the grounds that they violate international law under Protocol 1 of the Geneva Convention by meeting the definition of the term “mercenary” under Article 47. We’ll clarify. </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2: Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Despite trying to avoid association by repackaging themselves, PMCs fit the definition of mercenaries under Protocol 1 of the Geneva Convention. The courts labeling PMCs is necessary – it reveals their true nature. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Salzman 2008 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Zoe Salzman, Clinical Contract Attorney, International Human Rights Clinic, Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, NYU School of Law, J.D. magna cum laude (2007) and a LL.M in International Legal Studies (2008) from New York University School of Law. “PRIVATE MILITARY CONTRACTORS AND THE TAINT OF A MERCENARY REPUTATION”, page 40, N.Y.U. J. Int’L L. & Pol. 858. Access- July 20th [KOO] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Saleh v. Titan is the perfect test case for this issue.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Center for Constitutional Rights, “Current Cases: Saleh et al v. Titan et al” Center for Constitutional Rights website, last updated July 13, 2010 </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Only using the Supreme Court can overrule the DC Court of Appeals’ dismissal and establish a legal precedent for the future. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Soder 2010 (Brenda, May 28, Media Relations Dir of Human Rights First, http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/media/usls/2010/alert/617/index.htm) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Mandating the prohibition of PMCs in this court case politicizes and problematizes PMCs – catalyzing demand for accountability and redetermining the necessary and the possible </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Ulrich Beck, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, British Journal of Sociology Professor at the London School of Economics and Sciences, ’92 (“Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity”, p. 76-77) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Attempts at regulation inevitably fail because of lobbying and conflicting interests – terminating their use is key. They are not mere tools of the state – rather, they are economically driven actors who exert power over the very governments that employ them. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Anna Leander, Assoc. Prof. of Poli. Sci. and Public Management – U. of Southern Denmark, 2005 (Millennium 33.3, “The Power to Construct International Security”) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Advantage 1: Executive Power** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">PMC’s destroy balance of power by eliminating public and legislative oversight and falling exclusively under executive power. PMC’s are uniquely bad. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thurer and Maclaren 2007 (DANIEL THÜRER & MALCOLM MACLAREN* Military Outsourcing as a Case Study in the Accountability and Responsibility of Power”, The Law of International Relations - Liber Amicorum Hanspeter Neuhold, p 353, http://www.ivr.uzh.ch/lstthuerer/forschung/FSNeuholdt.pdf)KM </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Overexpansion of executive war powers is a slippery slope and has limitless extensions. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Lobel 2008 (Jules, Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh Law School, Ohio State Law Journal, 69 Ohio St. L.J. 391, Lexis) jl </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Overexpansion of executive powers gets modeled – causes international preemptive wars, use of catastrophic weapons, destruction of human rights, and collapses US leadership. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Sloane 2008 (Robert D, Associate Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law, 88 B.U.U. Rev. 341, Lexis) jl </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Global human rights violations create conditions where extinction is inevitable </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Human Rights Web, 94 (An Introduction to the Human Rights Movement Created on July 20, 1994 / Last edited on January 25, 1997, http://www.hrweb.org/intro.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**This is key to universalize democratic peace between democracies and between nondemocratic states. None of their impact stories or takeouts assume changes in democratic structure.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Damrosch 95 (Lori Fisler, Professor of Law, Columbia University, 50 U. Miami L. Rev. 181, Lexis) jl </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Advantage 2: Public sphere** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Ending PMC presence is key to U.S. democracy and effective policymaking – privatized force divorces the public from political action and issues – there is no public, media, or internal governmental review. Warfare is committed on our behalf without our consent. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Blakely 2006 -- Gregg Blakely, staff writer for Peace Magazine, Political Science Honors B.A. from the University of Toronto, “Marketized Soldiering: How Private Military Companies Challenge Global Governance, Erode Accountability and Exacerbate Conflict,” Fall 2006. http://ir.lib.sfu.ca/retrieve/4187/etd2603.pdf. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">PMC’s threaten emerging democracies as well- they serve commercial, not humanitarian, interests </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Salzman 2008 -- ZOE SALZMAN, Clinical Contract Attorney @ Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, J.D. Magna Cum Laude from NYU Law, “PRIVATE MILITARY CONTRACTORS AND THE TAINT OF A MERCENARY REPUTATION”, 2008, http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv2/groups/public/@nyu_law_website__journals__journal_of_international_law_and_politics/documents/documents/ecm_pro_058877.pdf </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The inevitability of state formation means we must advocate democracy both domestically and in a broader international context—alternatives result in genocidal and catastrophic wars. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Martin Shaw 2001 Review of International Studies, The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations, http://nationalism.org/library/science/ir/shaw/shaw-ris-2001-27-04.pdf </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Circumvention of the public sphere makes war inevitable </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Salzman 2008 [Zoe,New York University School of Law 2008 “Private Military Contractors And The Taint Of A Mercenary Reputation” International Law And Politics [Vol. 40:853 /hnasser] http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv2/groups/public/@nyu_law_website__journals__journal_of_international_law_and_politics/documents/documents/ecm_pro_058877.pdf </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And incorporation of the public sphere solves extinction.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Diamond 95, senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s, [[http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html]])</span>


=Negative= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PGS DA </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Congress just rejected requests for PGS funding </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Elaine M Grossman, “Senate Panel Again Cuts Funds for Conventional Trident Missile,” Global Security Newswire – National Journal Group, September 22, 2010 </span>[[http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20100922_3608.php]] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Overseas basing is the justification for stopping PGS use – withoutit, Congress spurs PGS use. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Vince Manzo, Center for Defense Information Research Assistant, “An Examination of the pentagon’s Prompst Global Strike Program: Rationale, Implementation, and Risks” 2008 </span>[[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/PGSfactsheet.pdf]] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Unless PGS is justified now, it will be shelved – plan allows it to avoid being cut </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lawrence P. Farrell Jr., National Defense Industry Association, “’Perform Storm’ for Defense Is Here, For Real This Time” NDIA Business and Technology Magazine, August 2010 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2010/August/Pages/PerfectStormforDefenseIsHere,ForRealThisTime.aspx]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PGS puts the world on the brink of nuclear war – Russia says it will interpret a launch as a nuclear attack </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Vince Manzo, Center for Defense Information Research Assistant, “An Examination of the pentagon’s Prompst Global Strike Program: Rationale, Implementation, and Risks” 2008 </span>[[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/PGSfactsheet.pdf]] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A nuclear response causes retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The American Prospect, February 26, 2001 (newspaper,Lexis)  </span></span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Turkey Coup DA  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">The Turkish military has decided to forego a coup against the AKP for now but still consider it an option to protect Turkey’s secular nature. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">World Bulletin 2010 </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">World Bulletin, “WikiLeaks: ex-US envoy believes Turkish military has coup plans” November 29, 2010 [[http://www.worldbulletin.net/news_detail.php?id=66850]] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">American withdrawal would be popularly seen as a anti-secular shift in AKP’s favor sparking a coup. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Cagaptay 2009 </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Soner Cagaptay, senior fellow & director of Turkish Research Program @ The Washington Inst., December 3, 2009, Center for Strategic Research and Analysis, [[http://www.cesran.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=656%3Amr-erdogan-visits-washington-the-akps-foreign-policy-and-united-states-interests&catid=58%3Amakale-ve-raporlar&Itemid=99&lang=en]] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Turkish Instability spills over to the entire Middle East </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Wimbush et al 2007 </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Wimbush et al, Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations, Lehigh University Fellow, New America Foundation and Director, Center for Future Security Strategies, Hudson Institute. “Is The United States Losing Turkey?” Hudson Institute, 3-25-2007. [[http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf]] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Middle East instability means nuclear war. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach 2002 </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">John Steinbach, researcher, Center for Research on Globalization, March 2002. [CRG, Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]]] </span></span>