[[toc]]
=Contact Info=
For full cites, e-mail [first name][dot][last name][at]pcds[dot]org.

=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Berkeley/NatQuals== 
**Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.**

**Scenarios:**
**1. Global Economic Collapse**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Impact: Mead 9** <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Walter Russell, //The New Republic//, February 4, 2009)</span></span>

**2. International Relations**
**Impact: Khalilzad 2/8/11** (Zalmay, fmr Ambassador to Iraq, Afg, UN, Feb. 8, 2011, <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)</span>

=[[#Negative]]Negative= 
==[[#Negative-T]]T== 
(from NDI 2010 Juniors Topicality file)
Presence - combat forces only, non-combat troops only, troop only.
==[[#Negative-FEM IR]]**FEM IR**== 
(From the Southwest Debate Institute)
**The epistemology, literary grounding, and practical execution of the 1AC is steeped in exclusionary gender politics. That they advocate a withdrawal of troops is irrelevant to the foundational citation of objective masculinity in the calculation of war and peace.**
**Pankhurst 2k**
(Masculinity is key in creating violence and the negative peace of the status quo. By changing masculinity we create positive peace. Donna, "Women, Gender, and Peacebuilding," August 2000, [[http://www.brad.ac.uk/acad/confres/assets/CCR5.pdf]])

**Impact: the farce of masculine manageability in world politics perpetuates ongoing war, proliferation, environmental destruction.**

**Warren and Cady 94** <span class="underline">(Warren is the Chair of the Philosophy Department at Macalester College and Cady is Professor of Philosophy at Hamline University Karen and Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, p. 16, JSTOR, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3810167.pdf]], JB)</span>

**Our alternative: commit to a reduction of military presence without its masculine discourse.**

**Steans 98** (Jill Steans, Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, “Gender and International Relations, An Introduction,” 1998, page 108-109)
==Securitization== 
(From the Southwest Debate Institute)
**Affirmative discursive constructions of the middle east is a performance of racial power, even though the plan reduces troops, the approach legitimizes colonialism and ensures constant intervention.**
**<span class="cite">Volbjorn 2004.</span>** <span class="small">Morten Valbjorn, 2004 Middle East and Palestine: Global Politics and Regional Conflict, “Culture blind and culture blinded: Images of Middle Eastern Conflicts in International Relations,” 63-4</span>

**Put away your realism good cards—Realist security rhetoric maintains ever-present threats of destruction that justifies unending, state-sanctioned violence.**
**Coviello 2000** <span class="small">(Peter Coviello, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On, 2000)</span>

**The alternative is to reject security logic. Moving beyond security logic through the criticism enables us to imagine a world outside of the security order.**
**Neoclus 2008.** (Mark <span class="Author-Date">Neocleous</span>**, <span class="Author-Date">08</span>**,“Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government)
==[[#Negative-CP]]CP - Con Con== 
**Text: The states should exercise their authority under Article V of the United States Constitution to call for a constitutional convention to propose an amendment to the United States Constitution to [insert plan] and the states should ratify the resulting amendment.**

**Observation I – Counterplan is not topical. We don't use the USFG.**

**Observation II – Solvency**

**A con con can happen at any time and solves 100% of the case
Eidsmoe 92** (John A., Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force Reserve, Constitutional Attorney. Professor of Law, Thomas Goode Jones School of Law, Faulkner University, Montgomery, Alabama. BA, St. Olaf College) 3 USAFA J. Leg. Stud. 35 (lexis)
==K of the Resolution== 
**Questions such as the resolution which assume that state action can be for the good serve only to** **renaturalize the state as something that will do good things if it is decided that those things are** **good. Doing so is bad, because we actually need to shatter the confidence of dominance through** **critique of those claims.**
**Butler 2k** (Judith, Maxine Elliott Professor of Rhetoric, UC Berkeley, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality. p178-9)

**Furthermore, engaging in debate which presupposes the benign nature of the currently** **constituted mechanism of power is naïve utopianism, comparable to cosmetic surgery rather than** **to a cure.**
**Zizek 2k** (Slavoj, Cont. Heg. Univ. p357)

**Our attempt to investigate the structures of the constitutive field of debate must be engaged** **with on the substantive level—attempts to avoid the argument are only attempts to conceal andcongeal power/knowledge relationships, thus proving the truth of the critique.**
**Salih 4** (Sarah, prof English, U of Toronto, Judith Butler Reader. P303-4)

**Thus, the role of the ballot is to affirm our deconstruction of the discourse behind the resolution** **and vote for the team that provides the best education.**
**Cheah and Guerlac 9** (Peng and Suzanne, Profs UC Berkeley, Derrida and the Time of the Political. P7-8.)

**Affirmation of the deconstruction of political discourse becomes a philosophical action that** **intervenes rather than just an intellectual exercise.**
**Cheah and Guerlac 9** (Peng and Suzanne, Profs UC Berkeley, Derrida and the Time of the Political. P5)

**Their policymaking claims are even more absurd now than they've ever been. The recent** **Supreme Court Citizens United decision ensures policy-making dictated not by reasoned debate,** **but by corporate interests.**
**Dworkin 10** (Ronald, Law Prof @ Chicago, [[http://blogs.nybooks.com/post/354384835/the-devastating-decision]])

**And put away your polich-making good blocks, policy is directed by private interest groups like** **ALEC—SB1070 proves**
**NPR.org 10** ("Shaping State Laws with Little Scrutiny," [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130891396]])
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]