=Affirmative= 

for neg questions/cite requests contact Srikar Kalvakolanu: s<span class="gI"><span class="go">[[mailto:kalvakolanu@gmail.com|kalvakolanu@gmail.com]]</span></span>
for aff questions/cite requests contact Kevin Joo: [[mailto:Kevinj507@gmail.com|Kevinj507@gmail.com]]

<span class="Underline">US MILITARY PRESENCE AS WELL AS THE WAY WE CHOOSE TO DISCUSS THE US MILITARY PRESENCE “POLICES” THE PRESENCE OF ASIAN IDENTITY. OUR CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF THIS YEAR’S POLICY QUESTIONS RAISES OUR CONSCIOUSNESS OF HOW WE AS ASIANS EXIST & SEE THE WORLD THIS PEDAGOGICAL PRACTICE OF DEBATE IS CALLED CONSCIENTIZATION</span>
THIS IS HUMBLE THE POET 
“Just Us”- Humble the Poet


<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**__English:__** __You don’t know me. When you TRY to know me, you only change me. so since I am Korean, I will always be Korean.__</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**__Korean:__** __넌__ __내가__ __누군지__ __몰라____.__ __너가__ __날__ __알라고__ __하면은__ __너가__ __나를__ __바꾸는거__ __뿐이야____.__ __나는__ __한국사람이니까____,__ __난__ __영원이__ __한국사람일꺼야____.__ </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Lemme ask you a question: do you know me?</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">When I don’t even know myself and my identity is policed?</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">You don’t know my situation, my life so let me summarize</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ima tell you what we feel, real talk i hope you realize.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">So when i was seven years old my family moved to this land</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">With 60 dollars in the bank and i thought that i can</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Be whoever I wanna be, they said this country was free</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">But no i was forced to hide my identity</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">They call it ESL, but they’re really taking your language</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">And the thing is, you believe them, you don’t know that you’re changing</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The only Asian kid in school, the kid with slanted eyes</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">You think others are nice, but they’re really meant to lie</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">My parents realized, so we moved to an Asian community</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">In Howard County, and my new friends gave me immunity</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">But I hung out with too many Asians, and my parents said to stop it</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Korean language? Drop it, academics? You better top it</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Apparently, if you work hard you become one of the whites</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">That’s what we've all been doing, studying ‘til midnight</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">My mom sent me to school, tuna fish in my lunch bag</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Yet eating rice when I’m home, and i had a hunch, that</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">This kind of thing we're going through, trying so hard but never gettin there</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Will go on ‘til we talk about it cuz this ain’t fair</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">And you know it, so before this blows into another riot</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">My hope is for people to listen instead of forcin us to be quiet</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Yo I’ve done my speed drills, and i know I didn’t like it</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I hate this white form of debate, flowing ‘til your hands tighten</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">I do my schoolwork, get good grades yea its fine</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">But in here? This round is mine, this is my time</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">To disrupt this whiteness that’s designed to control</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">And make us imperial citizens, be a part of the whole</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">That we really are inside, but we can’t show it in this nation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">So we perform to assert our identity-being “Asian.”</span>


**U.S. MILITARY OCCUPATION OF BODIES AND LAND HAS CONSEQUENCES****.** 
US military PRESENCE creates an outflow of CULTURE. American ideas of racial hierarchies cross oceans on the backs of American soldiers changing racial lines FOREVER, forging racial inequalities, reinforcing notions of white superiority by its introduction of Hollywood movies, plastic surgery and enforced with VIOLENT military abuses that includes the rape of Korean womyn. Racial Stereotypes have travelled on the backs of Korean immigrants, the FOREVER FOREIGNERS, and the CONTRADICTIONS of American democracy has INFLAMED RESISTANCE. 
**MAISEL** **Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press** **2k8**
Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA;// June 2008; [[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]





**MILITARY PRESENCE BECOMES THE POLICING OF PRESENCE**
**KIRK 08** **(visiting assc. Professor of Womyn and Gender Studies @ U of Oregon, founding member of womyn for a Genuine Security; "Gender and U.S. bases in Asia-Pacific"; FOREIGN POLICY IN FOCUS [FPIF], March 14)**






**The PRESENCE of minorities is POLICED by hostility and DISCRIMINATION, LOCKED between inclusion and ostracism, a position between the DOMINANT and the SUBORDINATE which is UNJUST in a nation that promises REALIZED DREAMS**
The PRESENCE of minority peoples invokes stories of HOSTILITY, OVERT DISCRIMINATION and VIOLENCE as SUBSTANTIALLY DISENFRANCHISED populations are separated from channels of power by RACE, RELIGION and LANGUAGE, locked in a position between INCLUSION and OSTRACISM, DOMINANT and the SUBORDINATE that seems UNJUST in a nation-state whose IDEALS promise REALIZED DREAMS to ALL.
**PEFFER** **Ohio University Eastern** **2k7**
Tony-; Editor’s Preface; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. v





**WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY** **AS INTELLECTUALS** **TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE**
<span style="margin-left: 36pt; text-indent: -18pt;">Must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community</span>
**DR. CRENSHAW** **Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala.** **1997**
Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; 
//Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence//; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.




“Learn Chinese”- Jin tha Emcee


<span style="font-size: 16pt;">It’s time to lace some REVOLUTION inside of our syllables. Along with the voices of Jin, 1TYM, and Humble the Poet,  and I personally advocate US MILITARY OUT OF </span>대한민국 (<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Dae Han Min Guk) through our performance in order to stop the policing of presence within the community. We affirm this through a process of Conscientization to break down the CONSTRUCTIONS of WHITENESS around us and to serve as a PRAXIS to bring the Asian IDENTITY into the light and spit some true knowledge so we can grow epistemologically and become educated. It’s time to start makin some Changes.</span>



**DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE**
There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.
**OSAJIMA** **professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands** **2k7**
Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64





**THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE**
Conscientization allows us to NAME the world, a meaningful education that helps RECOGNIZE and UNDERSTAND the impact that societal conditions and oppression have on our lives, a constant clarification of what remains hidden within us that sees the world dynamically in the making, inspiring us to work against oppression and become active in efforts to TRANSFORM the world.
**OSAJIMA** **professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands** **2k7**
Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67





**THE 1AC SPEECH ACT IS A PERFORMATIVE TRANSFORMATION OF DEBATE INTO A PEDAGOGICAL TOOL OF CONSCIENTIZATION** 
Debate can be transformative. The methodology of evaluation and engagement must be one that seeks to liberate oppressed groups through the epistemological growth of the participants. In other words we must seek to transform our reality through the critical thinking skills we gain from our participation in the activity. The arguments we choose and how we validate the claims of those arguments must simultaneously shape who we can become, RAISE OUR CONSCIOUSNESS so that we may become active participants that can lead to progressive social change.
**OSAJIMA** **professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands** **2k7**
Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 74-76
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS





THE WHITE, SO-CALLED “SEARCH FOR THE BEST POLICY” IGNORES FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES BECAUSE THEY CANNOT BE WEIGHED AGAINST NORMAL “HUGE” POLICY IMPATS. THEIR WAY OF DEBATE DEVALUES INDIVIDUALS AND RELATIONS TO EACH OTHER, THE STATE, AND PUBLIC POLICIES THUS DESTROYING DEBATE, EDUCATION, AND POLICYMAKING.
Incommensurability is a barrier to the best policy option, preventing us from realizing the ideal in practice or principle. Ignoring incommensurability profoundly misconceives the value and dignity of individuals.
**WARNER** **Prof of Law Chicago Kent School of Law** **1998**
Richard-; //“Does Incommensurability Matter? Incommensurability and Public Policy”;//
University of Pennsylvania; June; 146 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1287





**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Traditional education privileges those with power while excluding other forms of knowledge. Our usage of the three-tier methodology makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse while validating our claims to create true knowledge</span>**
**THE DSRB** 20**08** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]

=Negative= 
K's
Cp's
Has run the aff on the neg at Wake + Bronx