[[toc]]
Email one of us for cite requests:
[[mailto:mc1101@gmail.com|mc1101@gmail.com]]
[[mailto:tvtrieu2012@gmail.com|tvtrieu2012@gmail.com]]


=Affirmative= 
==Wake 1AC== 

**Plan: The United States federal government** **should withdraw all troops and close all bases in the Okinawa prefecture of Japan.**
=== === 

**Contention 1 is Institutional Politics**

**Continued U.S.-Japan military presence has pushed the Okinawan people to statelessness. Japanese deference has allowed U.S. militaries to take control of Okinawa’s social and political institutions and destroyed the environment.**
**Mantle, 06—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Gavan McCormack describes Okinawa as ‘… <span class="DebateUnderline">__gains little from its profits__</span>__.__ </span>

**And this is part of a colonial military strategy. After colonizing Okinawa, Japan has treated the area as property to traded to achieve their security interest. Defaulting to the status quo’s realist politics ensures the sacrifice of Okinawa people in the name of U.S. Japan security**
**Tanji, 07—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, (Miyume <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Tanji</span></span>, “Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, [[http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf]])</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__The reason for deployment__</span> of … alliance from wider Japanese resentment. </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**And the willingness to sacrifice the lives of their own population in the name of greater security interest forwards bio-political control and makes war and bare life inevitable.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**Giroux, 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">(Henry A., Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While biopolitics in Foucault and Hardt and Negri … </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the hands of military and state power.</span></span>

**Contention 2 is Patriarchy**

**U.S. military presence in Okinawa promotes a domineering culture where exotic constructions of Japanese women justify the sacrificing of women for rape and prostitution.**
**Kirk & Feffer 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Kirk: policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist; Feffer: Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC, PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University, associate editor of //World Policy Journal//, worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee, studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia, taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, [Gwyn, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The power dynamics of militarism … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of Local People’s Self-Determination </span>

**And, this is structural. US military presence in Okinawa spurs the Japanese government to institutionalize the rape and prostitution of their own citizens.**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Zimelis 09</span>** Andris "Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea, and the Phillipines" PhD in comparative politics from UIC, Cooperation and Conflict
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Thus, many women volunteered to ‘… maintain good relations with the US. </span>
=== === 
**And, without removing bases, rape is inevitable. No legal mechanism in the US/Japan security treaties protects women and the military claims immunity from international law.**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Kirk 05</span>** New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies, PhD from University of London in Sociology “Women at War” Berkeley Journal of Gender, Law & Justice 
Violence against women in military … <span class="DebateUnderline">__is negotiation and maneuverability here.__</span>

**And, we’ll isolate two impacts.**
**First, gendered militarism and patriarchy in Okinawa makes warfare and domestic violence inevitable.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="color: #141414;">Hope, et. Al, 91— </span>**<span style="color: #141414;">Farren, American Friends Service … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__very base of patriarchal rule.__</span></span>

**Rape is dehumanizing.**
**Halley, 2008.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Janet is </span><span class="verdana">Royall Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. Fall 2008. “ARTICLE: RAPE AT ROME: FEMINIST INTERVENTIONS IN THE CRIMINALIZATION OF SEX-RELATED VIOLENCE IN POSITIVE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL LAW” Michigan Journal of International Law. 30 Mich. J. Int'l L. 1)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Emphasis on the gender dimension … __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">of terrorizing and subordinating women</span>__</span>


**And, Okinawa shows that we must attack militarism though a gendered lense. Notions of militaristic violence are rooted in patriarchal assumptions-without them, militarism cannot function.**
**Kirk & Feffer 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gwyn, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of //World Policy Journal//. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__The expansion of U.S. military bases …__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">them and to act accordingly.</span>

**Contention 3 is Green Apathy**

**The replacement facility in Henoko continues the prioritization of military strategy over environmental protection. Futenma expansion will decimate culturally significant ocean wild life.**
<span class="Author-Date">The Center for Biological Diversity, 09—a national, nonprofit conservation organization with more than 240,000 members and online activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places, et al., co-signed by representatives of conservation, animal protection, and peace and justice groups representing more than 10 million Americans </span>(“RE: Proposed U.S. Military Air Base Expansion Near Henoko, Okinawa,” Letter To The Obama Administration, December 3rd, Available Online at http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)

<span class="DebateUnderline">__The island of Okinawa has … in 2010 and years to come__</span>__.__

**Okinawa’s coral reef and island ecosystems are key to sustaining Pacific biodiversity.**
**Davies et al, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Gump South Pacific Research Station, UC-Berkeley (Richard B., July 2007, Makoto Tsuchiya, faculty of science, University of the Rukyus, Rene Galzin, Center of Insular Research and Observations of the Environment, “Biodiversity Research on Coral Reef and Island Ecosystem: Scientific Cooperation in the Pacific Region,” [[http://www.bioone.org/doi/full/10.2984/1534-6188%282008%2962%5B299%3ABROCRA%5D2.0.CO%3B2]] )</span>
Another worldwide trend that has … __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">region is an urgent priority</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>

**And, our failure to address environmental issues furthers the politics of disposability, making nuclear annihilation and population slaughter inevitable**
**Bookchin, 87—** co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, (Murray, "An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," //The Modern Crisis//, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)
<span class="DebateUnderline">__Industrially and technologically, we are … reproduce a green and living world__</span>__.__

**And, loss of biodiversity** **starts a domino chain to extinction. Oceans are key**
**Coyne and Hoekstra 7 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago, Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (Jerry and Hopi, The New Republic, “The Greatest Dying,” 9/24, http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from the Great Dying, … </span>__greatest dying of them all.__

**Contention 4 is Solvency.**

**Plan is a critical site to contest dominant security logic- acknowledging the struggles of Okiniwa problematize the status quo’s prioritization of security over human rights and opens up space for new IR discourse.**
Miyume **<span class="Author-Date">Tanji</span>****,** Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, **<span class="Author-Date">2007</span>** (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">As discussed in this paper, <span class="DebateUnderline">__… brave and grown up__</span> either.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">And, Okinawa shows that we must attack militarism though an intersectional lense. Patriarchy pervades gender it affects people across class, race and sexual roles. </span>**
**Prasso, 2006**—Professor of International studies and Public Affairs at Columbia University, Professor of Critical Asian studies for 12 years. 
(Sheridan, The Asian Mystique: Dragon Ladies, Geisha Girls, and Our Fantasies of the Erotic Orient.” Boston Globe.) 
__The failure of traditional … a new age of self determination and justice.__

**Intervening at the site of military prostitution allows us to challenge the masculine international order as a whole**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases” p. 16-18 MT)

__It's true that in international … have scarcely begun to fathom__.


**Identifying the everyday structural violence of the Okinawan people is key to challenging the status quo crisis-driven politics. That comes first**
Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy, ‘96
(Chris Cuomo is a <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">theorist</span></span>, <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">activist</span></span>, and artist, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies at the University of Georgia. Chris holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. She has been awarded grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the Charles Phelps Taft Center, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45 Published by: Blackwell Publishing, P. JSTOR//DN)//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Theory that does not__ __investigate__ __…__ </span>inevitability of war and militarism </span>//

//**And, the plan is key. Public spheres like debate rounds are the key arenas to allow discourse about the affects of gendered violence. Only by breaking this silence can we find solutions.**//
//**Enloe, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Government, </span>//
//(Ph.D. December 1967 University of California (Berkeley), M.A. January 1963 University of California (Berkeley), B.A. cum laude, June 1960 Connecticut College (New London), “The Curious Feminist,” UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS, 2004 by the Regents of the University of California, P.73-75// DN)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Violence against women almost everywhere … </span>__</span>such silencing can be challenged.</span>

**Finally—continued U.S. military presence on … Okinawa has no strategic value**
**<span class="Author-Date">Network For Okinawa</span>**, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, **<span class="Author-Date">2010</span>** (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S. </span>____Marine Corps <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">presence in … </span>socially destructive buildup in Guam__</span>__.__</span>

**The image of nuclear war invoked is fiction. Visions of the bomb’s power only make us want it more**
**Cordle**, Nottingham Trent University, **2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-variant: normal ! important; font-weight: normal;">[Daniel, “Cultures of Terror: Nuclear Criticism During and Since the Cold War,” //Literature Compass//, Vol. 3, No. 6, November]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, it is worth pondering … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">images we use in trying to imagine it</span>__
=== === 
**And, we solve spill-over. The plan spurs a global movement against US basing and militarism**.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Feffer</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **3-6-**</span>**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies “Okinawa and the new domino effect” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Wherever the US military puts … __the exit arrow is pointing.__ </span>
== == 
==Valley -- Octos v. Millard 1AC== 

[[#_GoBack]]<span class="Underline">My partner and I are not the bearers of knowledge the stories we tell are real but the discussion of their futures are not. We enter into this debate as part of an intellectual movement that seeks to rupture the notion that US security interests are more important than the individual autonomy of Okinawan people. Our goal to seek a solution to a specific problem is an important challenge to the status quo. We understand that we cannot challenge the entirety of the global system and that there is a very good risk all our efforts will fail, but that our attempt is crucial in establishing an ethical obligation to those in need of help.</span>

<span class="Underline">We begin with a description of a fascism- Okinawan women are forced to become part of prostitutions ring that sit on military basses and submit their bodies to colonial exploration because they are subjugated in name of U.S. security interest, they are forced to breath in toxic waste so thick that their lungs are inflated by cancerous viruses and their land turned into mutant toxic waste that kill culturally significant wildlife because they are viewed as the garbage. Military bases control so much of the Okinawan economy that Okinawans are forced into a service economy where they have to choose to become slaves to military forces or homeless. These descriptions parallel the strategies of dislocation used in by every historical example of fascism – seeing people as different as not deserving of citizenship, as risky to your own interest, creates the politics of otherness necessary for genocide.</span>


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Aronowicz**, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, **2006**</span></span>
Annette Aronowicz, professor of Judaic studies at Franklin and Marshall College, Summer 2006, “Levinas and Politics” http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en 

What remains after so much … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">not making the innocent suffe</span>r</span> (Levinas 1990


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**AND OUR**<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-transform: uppercase;"> call to act is not perfect, IT MAY FAIL, BUT WE HAVE AN ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY TO tRY.</span>** </span></span>
Violence begets violence-while there are instances where violence must be used to defend one Other, it is important that we realize that violence is inevitable in a world where there is a Third but that we must make every effort we can to stop this chain reaction 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Simmons,** associate prof social sciences ASU, **2003**</span></span>
William Paul Simmons, associate professor of social sciences at Arizona State University, 2003, “An-Archy and Justice: An Introduction to Emmanuel Levinas’s Political Thought”
Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline">the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">relationship with the Third </span> … the relationship between ethics, justice, and politics.</span>



<span class="Underline">Thus the role of the ballot is to determine whether or not desire to help people affected by U.S. military presence in Okinawa is a good idea</span>

<span class="Underline">My partner and I’s advocacy is that the United States federal government should not be in Okinawa and that current troops should be removed and current bases closed.</span>


**Contention 2- Is the plot**
**Act 1- Institutional politics**

**Okinawan people are being exploited in the status quo. The Japanese government, by bowing to US security interest has established fascist control of the island and have allowed the US military to take control of Okinawa’s political institutions and has resulted in dehumanization of Okinawan women and destruction of the local environment.**
**Mantle, 06—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Gavan McCormack describes Okinawa as ‘Japan’s virtual colony’ …<span class="DebateUnderline"> __gains little from its profits__</span>__.__ </span>


**And this is part of a colonial military strategy. After colonizing Okinawa, Japan has treated the area as property to traded to achieve their security interest. Defaulting to the status quo’s realist politics ensures the sacrifice of Okinawa people in the name of U.S. Japan security**
**Tanji, 07—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, (Miyume <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Tanji</span></span>, “Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, [[http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf]])</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__The reason for deployment__</span> … the alliance from wider Japanese resentment. </span>



<span class="DebateUnderline">**And the willingness to sacrifice the lives of their own population in the name of greater security interest is an instance of biopolitical managerialism**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**Giroux, 6** - Professor at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">(Henry A., Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">While biopolitics in Foucault … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the hands of military and state power.</span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Act 2 is Rape** </span>


**U.S. military presence in Okinawa promotes a domineering culture where exotic constructions of Japanese women justify the sacrificing of women for rape and prostitution.**
**Kirk & Feffer 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Kirk: policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist; Feffer: Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC, PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University, associate editor of //World Policy Journal//, worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee, studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia, taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, [Gwyn, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]</span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The power dynamics of militarism </span>__ __…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Violation of Local People’s Self-Determination </span>


**And, this is structural. US military presence in Okinawa spurs the Japanese government to institutionalize the rape and prostitution of their own citizens.**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Zimelis 09</span>** Andris "Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea, and the Phillipines" PhD in comparative politics from UIC, Cooperation and Conflict
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Thus, many women … efforts to maintain good relations with the US. </span>



<span class="Underline">**And rape is bad- dehumanizing**</span>
**Halley, 2008.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Janet is </span><span class="verdana">Royall Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. Fall 2008. “ARTICLE: RAPE AT ROME: FEMINIST INTERVENTIONS IN THE CRIMINALIZATION OF SEX-RELATED VIOLENCE IN POSITIVE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL LAW” Michigan Journal of International Law. 30 Mich. J. Int'l L. 1)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Emphasis on the gender dimension . . . __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">terrorizing and subordinating women</span>__ </span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**__Contention 3 Our voices Matter__**</span>


**Identifying the everyday structural violence of the Okinawan people is key to challenging the status quo crisis-driven politics. That comes first**
Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy, ‘96
(Chris Cuomo is a <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">theorist</span></span>, <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">activist</span></span>, and artist, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies at the University of Georgia. Chris holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. She has been awarded grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the Charles Phelps Taft Center, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45 Published by: Blackwell Publishing, P. JSTOR//DN)//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Theory that does not__ __investigate__ __. . .__ </span>the inevitability of war and militarism </span>//


//**And, the plan is key. Public spheres like debate rounds are the key arenas to allow discourse about the affects of gendered violence. Only by breaking this silence can we find solutions.**//
//**Enloe, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Government, </span>//
//(Ph.D. December 1967 University of California (Berkeley), M.A. January 1963 University of California (Berkeley), B.A. cum laude, June 1960 Connecticut College (New London), “The Curious Feminist,” UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS, 2004 by the Regents of the University of California, P.73-75// DN)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Violence against women almost everywhere </span>__ __. . .__ a</span>nd in which such silencing can be challenged.</span>


**We must constantly interrupt the political with the ethical-exposing the plight of the other in all available venues.**
<span class="Author-Date">**Jordaan**, prof Poli Sci at Stellenbosch, **2006**, we reject the gendered language</span>
Eduard Jordaan, Professor of Political Science at Stellenbosch, 2006, “Responsibility, Indifference, and Global Poverty: A Levinasian Perspective”

In light of the above preliminaries . . . <span class="DebateUnderline"> that issues from the fact of his otherness.</span>


**Lets not forget history. Our failure to attempt to fulfill our ethical response in the past has only led to the genocide of an entire population**
Peter **__Jowers__** Senior Lecturer in Politics at the University of the West of England. **__2005__** __Trust, Risk, and Uncertainty.__ “Risk, Sensibility, Ethics and Justice in the Later Levinas” Pgs. 47-73

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">During the Rwandan massacres</span></span> of 1997 . . . <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> substituting one’s life, for strangers.</span> </span>

=== === 

===**Valley -- Octos 2AC v. Millard**=== 

<span class="Underline">**Here’s the theatre, Scene ONE- Theatre as Domination – U.S. and Japan governments are using comedy and theatre as a way to convince Okinawa people to subdue to military domination**.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Meet Arai anzu – BBC published a story exposing a U.S. and Japan cartoon propaganda that depicts an Okinawan girl who meets her new best-friend from the U.S.- she asks why are you here and he replied “because it is good to have friends to protect you” she smiles complacently as an American flags hangs in the background behind her.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**This image shows the failure of their advocacy; fiction is co-opted by those in position of power to sustain unequal power relations- their advocacy will prop up the same media industrial complex that allowed Yellow face in this country to sustain racial prejudice.**</span>
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bai Ye</span>** "Remarkable: The Image of Chinese Americans in Current Film and Television." //Chinese Studies in History,// Spring **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2008</span>**
American theatre in the 1950s was dominated by . . . __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">where power is not situated in the hands of controlling images of yellow face</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**And this allows bio-political violence** </span>
**Shein, 2004** (Avital, A Foucauldian explanation of racism beyond Foucault's, [[http://www.panopticweb.com/2004conference/3.shein.pdf]],)
In the context of power over life . . . __the normalizing state replaces the “old sovereign.”__


**<span class="cite">Status quo military presence in East Asia is a tool of globalization. Plan takes the first step away from globalization politics</span>**
**<span class="cite">Stokes 05 </span>**(Doug, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Kent at Canterbury, The Heart of Empire? Theorising US empire in an era of transnational capitalism, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 26, No. 2, pp 217 – 236, 2005, [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content%7Edb=all%7Econtent=a713720197|http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~db=all~content=a713720197]] or [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3993726]]) 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Robinson argues that to analyse the USA . . . to underwrite and police the world for transnational capital. </span>

**The negative is wrong: the intersection of imperialism, environment, and patriarchy is the root cause of capitalism; this turns the K.**
Shor, 10**--**Francis <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Shor</span></span> teaches history at Wayne State University. A contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, he is the author of Dying Empire: U. S. Imperialism and Global Resistance, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10</span></span>, <http://www.dyingempire.org/>
<span class="DebateUnderline">Predictions about the ultimate collapse of capitalism</span>, . . . <span class="DebateUnderline">social costs of American “affluenza,” extravagance and wastefulness</span>.”

**And our speech act is uniquely empowering --- this imagination is critical to understand how the government reaches decisions, how to hold it accountable and determine how we should act**
**Rawls ‘99** (John, Professor Emeritus – Harvard University, __The Law of Peoples__, p. 54-7)
Developing the Law of Peoples within a liberal conception of justice, . . . it would be incompatible with freedom of speech.

**Our obligation to the other extends to addressing material misery**
<span class="Author-Date">**Van Der Merwe**, professor of philosophy at Stellenbosch, **2006**</span>
W.L. van der Merwe, professor of philosophy at University of Stellenbosch, South Africa, “The Ethics of Responsibility”, http://hdl.handle.net/10019/49
“<span class="DebateUnderline">The other concerns me in all his <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">material misery</span> . . . </span>the I in an equality and a reciprocity

**Politics and ethics are interdependent-only the state can make Levinas’s ethical dream a reality**
<span class="Author-Date">**Morgan,** prof philosophy Indiana, **2007**</span>
Morgan 7-Professor of philosophy at Indiana University (Michael L, “Discovering Levinas,” Cambridge University Press, May 2007)
For Levinas, then, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">ethics and politics are complementary</span> . . . </span>even corrupt and oppressive__.__ as we shall see.

===New 1AC ev and plan text (As of the UMich RR)=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce military presence by removing all troops and closing all bases in Okinawa.**

**<span style="color: #403838;">Justifies bio-politics. </span>**
**<span style="color: #403838;">Bulent Diken 5</span>**<span style="color: #403838;"> ” Becoming Abject: Rape as a Weapon of War”. Lancaster University, Department of Sociology. //Body and Society//. 2005 </span>
<span style="color: #403838;">Organized rape has been an integral aspect of warfare . . . </span>

==HoFlo Quarters 1AC (read against Dexter, now with full text!)== 
=====[[#_GoBack]]The Imperial Project 1ac===== 

**U.S. military expansionism, international bases, global security policies, is mere euphemism for colonial exploitation. Our attempt to secure the world, isolate and eliminate chaos, protect the innocent from the ruthless, are mere representational signifiers used to justify our interventionism on populations we desire to monitor, align with or against through democratization, or expand our imperial influence through coercive and exploitative economic relationships. As policy makers we have internalized our role as globocop-justified our calls to action based on realist international politics that position the U.S. as global sovereign. Even when these truth claims begin from a standpoint of criticizing failed U.S. policy, they sustain the securitizing logic which justifies global monitoring and interventionism. They maintain the empire by concealing critique with realist desires of peace, coercive diplomacy, and maintaining the possibility for interventionism. We refuse to become the status quo’s policy makers- we embrace this debate as a vehicle for critical reflection against the history of U.S. colonialism**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mooers in 6 </span></span>(Colin, Chair of the Department of Politics and School of Public Administration at Ryerson University, One world, The New Imperialists, p. 2-3)pl
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of this fact, contemporary </span><span class="underline0">imperialism has had to drape itself in new ideological clothes; its defenders invade public debates speaking seemingly neutral languages of democracy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and human </span><span class="underline0">rights</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; of freedom and dignity; of </span><span class="underline0">inclusiveness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and respect for difference; of gender </span><span class="underline0">equality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the alleviation of poverty; of good governance </span><span class="underline0">and sustainable development</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Alongside these decidedly modernist tropes, </span><span class="underline0">others have appealed to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the timeless verities of human nature or </span><span class="underline0">culture to justify the inevitability of war and empire.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Still others have touted the supposedly beneficent legacy of older imperialisms. Such juxtapositions are in keeping with “a deep and perplexing doubleness” of the new imperialism: a primal military atavism reminiscent of older forms of empire combined with the “spectacular” deployment of up-to-the-minute technologies of mass deception and distraction.4 Taken as a whole, the </span><span class="underline0">new ideologies of empire express the same contradictory combination of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the retrogressive and the modern: of civilizational clashes and democratic ideals; of virulent </span><span class="underline0">racism and postmodern multiculturalism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; of gender equality and religious oppression; </span><span class="underline0">of old-fashioned propaganda and newfangled forms of “soft power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”; of torture and human rights. Against this backdrop, it </span><span class="underline0">would be easy to lose sight of the difference between ideologies and lies.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, ideologies are different from lies even if they are sometimes (as in the case of Iraq) bolstered by lies. For ideologies to work, they must speak to some genuine longing on the part of those who believe in them, however distorted these desires have become by the realities of exploitation and domination. Hence the talk of democracy and freedom. But, </span><span class="underline0">like lies, ideologies often involve a good deal of self-delusion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the part of those who traffic in them – how else to explain the debacle of post-invasion Iraq? The systematic character of imperial self-delusion is perhaps best captured in U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld’s tortured explication of military ignorance: As we know, there are known knowns. There are things we know we know. We also know there are known unknowns. That is to say, we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also the unknown unknowns, the ones we don’t know we don’t know.5 As Slavoj Zizek observes, the one category that Rumsfeld failed to mention were the “unknown knowns”: </span><span class="underline0">beliefs or practices</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – like the horrors of Abu Ghraib – </span><span class="underline0">which must be quickly repressed since their knowledge is too much for consciousness to bear.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Zizek contends </span><span class="underline0">that the real danger for the American empire lies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not in the threats which lie undiscovered, but “</span><span class="underline0">in the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> disavowed </span><span class="underline0">beliefs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, suppositions and obscene practices </span><span class="underline0">we pretend not to know about</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”6 Be that as it may, </span><span class="underline0">a good deal of conscious effort has been expended to justify and normalize the “new imperialism.” Policymakers mask their neo-imperial agendas under the guise of realist conceptions of threats and international chaos. These representational signifiers often reproduce coincidentally imperialist interventionism that wage military warfare against, black, brown, and oriental bodies, in the name of their own welfare. And although these threats are sometimes commonly known to be false, we subconsciously accept them as truth to enjoy the promise of security and stability. Even when these dangers are not calculable we sit back while the state panoptically monitors and voyeuristically travels the globe in hopes of finding new borders on which we can establishes bases which often represent the beginnings of new political and economic control.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is a mark of the times in which we live that </span><span class="underline0">the discourse of empire and imperialism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – not so long ago considered an antique preoccupation of the Left – </span><span class="underline0">has been embraced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by mainstream intellectuals from across the political spectrum. But, before examining these apologias in detail in the essays that follow, we need to ask: what has prompted this sudden desire to reclaim the language of empire? What changes in the global balance of forces can change this ideological shift? </span>**__We must reformulate international relations theory and hegemonic security philosophy by drafting a new discursive project aimed at historically analyzing the material conditions which have produced and sustained the U.S. as a global imperial entity. We must invade public debates and academic spaces where bodies of knowledge are normatively produced in ways that exclude marginal voices and counter-hegemonic narratives of U.S. colonialism. We must embrace antagonism as a legitimate political strategy armed with the possibility of producing genuine public policies aimed at resolving the residuals of colonial domination; for policies that fail to center the history of colonialism will ultimately be unsuccessful as the empire intensifies its imperial rule when it convinces the masses to forget. I understand fully that a complete re-intellectualization of international relations theory is a daunting task, but unless we commit to transitioning away from dominate realist/imperialist security logic, we wont be able to de-legitimate the normative foundations of imperialism that justify conquest and domination.__** </span>
====<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 2- U.S. Imperialism on OKINAWA.</span>==== 

**We begin our critical reflection on U.S. imperialism by analyzing its current role in Okinawa. U.S. presence in Okinawa is justified under the auspices of U.S. Japan Security arrangements; this device has instrumented violence against Okinawans, subjected them to environ-pollution, and pushed them to the brink of statelessness. This manifestation not only displays the consequences of our imperial interests but also the diverse ways in which we extend colonialism.**
**Mantle, 06—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deborah </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Mantle</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">2006</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Gavan McCormack describes Okinawa as ‘Japan’s virtual colony’; ‘a dual colony in effect to the U.S. and Japan, a status unchanged in thirty years since reversion’ (McCormack, 2003: 93). <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="color: white;">Okinawa</span>____, which has 0.6% of Japan’s total landmass, houses 75% of the acreage of American bases. Thirty-eight military facilities cover 20% of Okinawa Island__</span>__.__ Not only does Okinawa bear the overwhelming majority of U.S. military bases within Japan, but <span class="DebateUnderline">__the bases are of a different type to the rest of Japan. Nearly all__</span> of the U.S. military bases <span class="DebateUnderline">__on the mainland are for ‘administration, communications, transport, logistics support, repairs and recreation__</span> (Gabe, 2003: 63), <span class="DebateUnderline">__while the bases in Okinawa are for marines and special-forces. The effects are different__</span>, too. As Gabe states, ‘<span class="DebateUnderline">__Because__</span> [end page 96] <span class="DebateUnderline">__these forces are next to 1.3 million residences, accidents and incidents are bound to occur’__</span> (Gabe: 2003, 64). <span class="DebateUnderline">__Accidents, ‘incidents’ (a euphemism used officially for crimes, such as rape__</span>__)__ and examples of environmental pollution abound in Okinawa. Eight areas within the islands are sites for conducting live ammunition exercises. On Torishima, an unpopulated island, <span class="DebateUnderline">__U.S. soldiers mistakenly used depleted uranium bullets in 1995. Washington did not notify Tokyo of the accident until a year later and then the central government failed to inform the prefectural government and public of Okinawa until a month after that__</span>__; ‘__ This reveals how marginalized Okinawa is by both the U.S. and the Japanese governments</span>’ (Asato, 2003: 233). However, the rape of a twelve-year-old girl by three U.S. servicemen in 1995 could not be covered up or ignored and created a surge of anger and resentment resulting in the largest mass demonstration in Okinawan history. The 1996 U.S. – Japan agreement to close Futenma airbase in the middle of the heavily-populated Ginowan City and relocate to the sparsely-populated Henoko area was a direct consequence of the protests. But the ‘incidents’ do not go away. <span class="DebateUnderline">__In__</span> August <span class="DebateUnderline">__2004, a__</span> U.S. <span class="DebateUnderline">__Marine__</span> Corps CH-53D heavy-lift <span class="DebateUnderline">__helicopter crashed into Okinawa International University injuring the three crew members, an accident that received little press coverage nationally__</span> (Simpson, 2004) <span class="DebateUnderline">__leading to ‘allegations that editorial decisions ... reflected a view that events in faraway Okinawa were of little importance to the nation as a whole’__</span> (Simpson, 1995). How is <span class="DebateUnderline">__this vastly unfair situation__</span>, a state of affairs that <span class="DebateUnderline">__would not be tolerated on the mainland__</span>, maintained? <span class="DebateUnderline">__Politically,__ __Okinawa has little voice and economically Okinawa has become both victim to and dependent on a base- construction economy__ __that is difficult to give up or be weaned from. Of the 452 members of the Japanese Diet only five represent Okinawa. A__</span> NIMP (<span class="DebateUnderline">__Not In My Prefecture__</span>__)__ attitude prevails. Since other prefectures are unwilling to have U.S. bases in their own areas, and since it is accepted that if the military bases were not in Okinawa they would have to be relocated somewhere else in Japan, any<span class="DebateUnderline"> __Okinawan formal protests are ignored or overruled. To question the ‘need’ for American bases in Okinawa would be to question the entire framework of Japanese defence policy, and whenever there is criticism of such a policy the government takes out the trump card of ‘national security’__</span>__.__ [end page 97] Okinawa is, of course, more than the sum of its military bases. The U.S. bases have had a profound and prolonged effect on the economy – during the U.S. occupation Okinawa was ‘in effect a provider of support services for U.S. bases’ (Hein & Selden, 2003: 6) – but this direct dependence on the bases in terms of finding employment and providing services has decreased markedly. Base-related revenue has dropped from 25.6% of the local Gross Domestic Product in 1970 to 5.7% in 1996 (Hook & Siddle, 2003: 5), while employment on the U.S. bases decreased from 40,000 to 8,000 over the same time period (McCormack, 2003: 93). The principal effect of the U.S. bases on Okinawa today is through the rental payments given to local landowners for the lease of their land. In contrast to the mainland where U.S. bases had usually been built on land previously owned by the government, in Okinawa 33% of the land occupied by U.S. military is privately-owned (Tanji, 2003: 169). For McCormack the lease of landowners’ land ‘fosters a passive culture of rental dependence, which blocks locally generated initiatives towards self-reliant, non-military dependent development’ (McCormack, 2003: 94). Opposition to the appropriation and lease of local land has been an expression of protest against the prevailing conceptions of development and security. The post- war confiscation of private land by ‘bulldozers and bayonets’ was a source of great local bitterness (Tanji, 2003: 169). The strength of feeling was exacerbated rather than alleviated by the eventual U.S. offer of small lump-sum payments to landowners. Following island-wide protests in 1956, the islanders finally got the right to annual rentals in return for their ‘agreement’ to the land leases (Tanji, 2003: 169). After the reversion of Okinawa to Japan in 1972 the U.S. bases remained and the rental payments continued, this time from the Japanese government at a rate six times that of previously (Tanji, 2003: 169). As an anti-war pro-Okinawa protest a minority of landowners refused to sign leases for their property, the numbers rising to 3,000 as a result of the 1982 hitotsuba (1 tsubo = 3.3 square metres) movement (Tanji, 2003: 170). Nonetheless, 30,000 landowners agree to their land being leased by the U.S. military. Although relatively few in number, the anti-military landowners’ struggle has been played out most importantly in the law courts whereb, unsuccessfully, they tried to prove that the compulsory use of non-contract landowners’ private property by the U.S. military was unconstitutional (Tanji, [end page 98] 2003: 171; George-Mulgan, 2000). In 1995, Okinawa governor Masahide Ota refused to sign on behalf of those landowners who objected to the renewal of their land leases. Ota was sued by the Japanese government, and the Supreme Court ruled against Ota. In 1999, the U.S. Military Special Measures Law was amended by the Japanese government to make it the Prime Minister’s responsibility to sign on behalf of landowners and to avoid Okinawan rebellion in the future (Tanji, 2003: 171__).__ In the formal political realm – the courts, committees and legislative – the Japanese state has repeatedly manipulated the system to maintain the status quo; ‘The primary requirements of the U.S. – Japan Mutual Security Treaty__,__ that U.S. troops be stationed in Japan, <span class="DebateUnderline">__has constantly taken precedence over the constitutional rights of Okinawa citizens’__</span> (Tanji, 2003: 172). Though the legal battle ultimately failed, the Prefectural Land Expropriation Committee public hearings gave anti-war landowners a space to voice their harrowing experiences of the Battle of Okinawa and the subsequent occupation by the U.S. military, and their passionate commitment to the ideals of peace and democracy enshrined in the Japanese constitution (Tanji, 2003: 172). __Thus, it is the citizens of Japan who are struggling to protect the constitution against a central government which should protect it (and them) but instead rides roughshod over the rights and interests of its people in the name of protecting Japan’s ‘national security’ **defined in military terms** (Tanji, 2003: 172-3). Without legal protection, the people themselves are treated like refugees in their own country;__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;">they are virtually stateless</span>__** __since both the U.S. and Japan continue to redefine their existence based on what is best for national security____<span style="text-underline: thick;">.</span>__ Next to the base economy, <span class="DebateUnderline">‘__development’ is the other sharp stake that keeps Okinawan dependence in place. In order to compensate the Okinawans for hosting the U.S. bases and to increase their standard of living__</span>__,__ which had been far below the mainland at the time of reversion, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the central government has invested huge sums of public money in the area__</span>__10__. The massive injection of funds has had its benefits, including much-needed infrastructural improvements and the establishment of five universities. <span class="DebateUnderline">__Nevertheless, Okinawa remains the poorest prefecture__</span> (70% of national average per capita) <span class="DebateUnderline">__with the highest unemployment__</span> (7.9% in 2000, compared to a national average of 4.7%) (Hein & Selden, 2003: 6). Furthermore, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the application of modern Japanese style development has resulted in the decimation of Okinawa’s important and fragile environment; ‘riverways, beaches and land have been bulldozed and concreted__</span>. What is worse, <span class="DebateUnderline">__air and water pollution, soil erosion and wider environmental degradation are ruining the__</span> __[end page 99]__ coastline, eating away at the coral and posing a danger to marine<span class="DebateUnderline"> __life’__</span> (Hook and Siddle, 2003: 5). <span class="DebateUnderline">__Okinawa bears the costs of this ‘mal-development’ but gains little from its profits__</span>__.__ 

**And this is rooted in the very history of colonialism we criticize. Japan colonized Okinawa in 1879 and has treated the area as property to be sold and traded to meet its own security interest after losing World War 2. Our continued presence illustrates our complicity with and furtherance of neo-realist imperialism.**
**Tanji, 07—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, (Miyume </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Tanji</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, [[http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf]])</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__The reason for deployment__</span> of US forces <span class="DebateUnderline">__in Okinawa__</span> for the past 60 odd years <span class="DebateUnderline">__is Japanese-US security relations__</span>, or alliance. <span class="DebateUnderline">__Policy-makers and commentators have explained the rationales for this alliance mostly from realist and neo-realist perspectives.__ __Anarchical outlook and basic lack of trust prevail__</span> in relevant discussions of the East Asian security environment. Balance of power and alliance politics are crucial means to survive in such an environment. <span class="DebateUnderline">__In the post-war period, the Japan-US alliance has been justified in precisely these realist terms__</span>. Realists consider that relations among states are naturally anarchical because there is no authority above states. Although it has long history reaching back to Hobbes or even Thucydides, this outlook became dominant in the aftermath of the Second World War as a critique of idealism and liberal institutionalism based on universal values (especially Carr 1946; Morgenthau 2005). Two world wars, a holocaust and nuclear warfare put an end to these dreams. Balance of power, especially military power, is considered a more reliable avenue for order in international relations. Given the anarchical character of the international [end page 3] system, individual states, should always behave in a way that maximises national interest defined in terms of securing safety and survival by increasing its relevant capabilities. According to realists, order-building should be the primary concern of diplomacy and foreign policy. Alliances and war preparation are among the most important instruments for states to achieve order in international relations that is inherently unstable. Neorealist theory radicalises the realist argument. It assumes a state’s behaviour to be structurally – and completely – determined by the anarchic international system. The state necessarily behaves so as to maximise its chance of survival. Imperatives within states are different. International politics, according to an influential neo-realist theorist Kenneth Waltz, needs to be considered separately from domestic politics. Affairs within the state related to society, history and even economics need to be understood in different structural constraints from those in international system (Waltz 1979: 79-80, 91-92, 100-101). Classical realism on the other hand, makes room for consideration of domestic affairs such as history, while neorealists are able to filter them out as ‘domestic affairs’. The neo-realist logic permits a more exclusive focus on power and maximizing of state safety; unconstrained by internal complications, especially where these might involve consideration of ethics and morality. For foreign policy-making, this neorealist thinking was particularly influential during the Cold War. In the <span class="DebateUnderline">__Okinawan__</span> context, US <span class="DebateUnderline">__bases have created dilemmas at historical, moral as well as economic levels__</span>. The first military bases in Okinawa were those constructed by the Japanese military during World War II. They were lost to the Americans in the bloody Battle of Okinawa and extended in the course of the US occupation. <span class="DebateUnderline">__The Okinawans__ __lost__</span> 160,000 or <span class="DebateUnderline">__one-third of their residents’ lives in the Battle of Okinawa. This experience is different from that of mainland Japanese experience of war__</span> – reified in Nagasaki and Hiroshima – <span class="DebateUnderline">__because of Okinawa’s identity. For over four centuries__</span>, from 1429 onwards, <span class="DebateUnderline">__Okinawa was a sovereign__ __nation__</span> – the Ryukyu Kingdom – <span class="DebateUnderline">__until it was annexed by Japan__</span> in 1__879,__ only 70 years before WWII. During that time<span class="DebateUnderline">, __Okinawan citizens were subjected to discrimination and described as ‘backward’ second-class citizens__</span>, who had to learn the Japanese language, and were pressured to assimilate. <span class="DebateUnderline">__Japanese military’s aggression towards the local residents__ __during the Battle of Okinawa continues to be a source of conflict between the residents and the Japanese government__</span> whose official position involves denial of all wrong doing.2 <span class="DebateUnderline">__It is important that__</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> __today’s US military presence is understood as an extension of the history of Okinawa’s abuse and marginalization by Japan.__ __The experience of war as a colonial appendage and__</span>__,__ quite [end page 4] literally, <span class="DebateUnderline">__as a battlefield__</span>__,__ gave rise to an absolute pacifism that constitutes what being ‘Okinawan’ means today. It also informs the collective identity of diverse anti-base social movements and energises their activism (Tanji 2006, Chapter 4). <span class="DebateUnderline">__Continuing complicity in war by hosting US forces__</span> – and the Japanese Self Defence Forces for that matter – thus <span class="DebateUnderline">__poses an acute moral dilemma for the__ __Okinawans__</span>. In addition to that, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the US military presence has contributed to Okinawa being the most impoverished, crowded, and polluted prefecture in Japan. Its economy continues to be dependent on the military presence in a variety of ways including the fostering of a large and abusive sex industry.__ __Autonomous city planning is impossibly restricted by the space occupied by the US forces. Okinawa remains a service industry economy and servicing the bases is its main business. It is a “base economy”__</span> and is reliant on direct revenues from the US military and, even more so, on Japanese government’s special budgets paid to the communities as compensation for hosting military bases. <span class="DebateUnderline">__These historical, economic and moral complications__</span>, however, <span class="DebateUnderline">__are not permitted to enter the sphere of foreign policy concern__</span>. They are dealt with between elected local political representatives and the Japanese government officials. The negotiation between the central government and the local representatives in the margin are of course influenced by power imbalance between Tokyo and Okinawa. But <span class="DebateUnderline">__the opinions of Okinawan citizens that might, for cultural and moral reasons, be hostile to a continuing US presence and its projects of renewal__</span> (e.g. the construction of Futenma Air Base) <span class="DebateUnderline">__are often manipulated at election time by economic insecurity and priorities__</span> (Miyagi and Tanji 2007; Yoshikawa 2007). In any case, <span class="DebateUnderline">__issues are typically discussed and resolved domestically in this limiting way__</span>. This does not mean that the US bases in Okinawa are irrelevant to Japan’s foreign policy. However, the established views prevent the issue from being brought together and debated in this way. <span class="DebateUnderline">__The neo-realist perspective and the radical independence and priority it assigns to foreign policy making is helpful__</span> here__.__ Foreign policy about the survival of Japan and maintaining the security alliance with the US is priority not to be disturbed by less important domestic concerns. In order<span class="DebateUnderline"> __to maintain the status quo of the alliance, the government of Japan chooses to allow[s] the US forces to keep using the base facilities in Okinawa__</span>__.__ Apart from that, Okinawa hosts 75% of all exclusively US facilities stationed in Japan. <span class="DebateUnderline">__If Okinawa’s cultural sensibilities or priorities are sometimes ignored, and its democracy or economy are a little damaged in the process,__ __then these are a small price to pay for a national security that cannot be compromised. Any way the proper place for these questions is away from the main game with a little money and media manipulation to ease the way__</span>. This approach also has the further advantage of minimising the offense of a foreign military presence that might be [end page 5] experienced by Japanese nationals outside Okinawa (out of sight, out of mind), thus shielding the alliance from wider Japanese resentment. 
**And Imperialism justifies sacrificial genocide and makes interventionism inevitable.** 
**Santos ‘3**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal) and Distinguished Scholar at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Law School. "Collective Suicide?" March 28, 2003 online </span>[[http://www.ces.fe.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php]]; ₦)
<span style="margin-left: 0in; tab-stops: decimal .25in left 405.0pt;"><span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it should try to save humanity by destroying part of it. This is</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span class="Style1Char">a salvific and</span> </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">sacrificial destruction</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span class="Style1Char">committed in the name of the need to radically materialize all the possibilities opened up by a given social and political reality over which it is supposed to have total power.</span> </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">This is how it was in colonialism, with the genocide of indigenous peoples, and the African slaves. This is how it was in the period of imperialist struggles, which caused millions of deaths in two world wars and many other colonial wars. This is how it was in Stalinism, with the Gulag and in Nazism, with the holocaust. And now today, this is how it is in neoliberalism, with the collective sacrifice of the periphery and even the semiperiphery of the world system. With the war against Iraq</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, <span class="Style1Char">it is fitting to ask whether what is in progress is a new genocidal and sacrificial illusion, and what its scope might be</span>. </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">It is above all appropriate to ask if the new illusion will not herald the radicalization and the ultimate perversion of the western illusion: destroying all of humanity in the illusion of saving it</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sacrificial genocide arises from a totalitarian illusion that is manifested in the belief that there are no alternatives to the present-day reality and that the problems and difficulties confronting it arise from failing to take its logic of development to its ultimate consequences. If there is unemployment, hunger and death in the Third World, this is not the result of market failures; instead, it is the outcome of the market laws not having been fully applied. If there is terrorism, this is not due to the violence of the conditions that generate it; it is due, rather, to the fact that total violence has not been employed to physically eradicate all terrorists and potential terrorists.This political logic is based on the supposition of total power and knowledge, and on the radical rejection of alternatives; it is ultra‑ conservative in that it aims to infinitely reproduce the status quo. Inherent to it is the notion of the end of history. </span></span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">During the last hundred years, the West has experienced three versions of this logic</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, <span class="Style1Char">and, therefore, seen three versions of the end of history:</span> </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">Stalinism</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span class="Style1Char">with its logic of insuperable efficiency of the plan;</span> </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">Nazism</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, <span class="Style1Char">with its logic of racial superiority</span>; </span><span class="UNDERLINEChar0">and neoliberalism</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, <span class="Style1Char">with its logic of insuperable efficiency of the market. </span></span><span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The first two periods involved the destruction of democracy. The last one trivializes democracy, disarming it in the face of social actors sufficiently powerful to be able to privatize the State and international institutions in their favour. I have described this situation as a combination of political democracy and social fascism. One current manifestation of this combination resides in the fact that intensely strong public opinion, worldwide, against the war is found to he incapable of halting the war machine set in motion by supposedly democratic rulers.</span></span> <span class="UNDERLINEChar0">At all these moments, a death drive, a catastrophic heroism, predominates, the idea of a looming collective suicide, only preventable by the massive destruction of the other. Paradoxically, the broader the definition of the other and the efficacy of its destruction, the more likely collective suicide becomes.</span> <span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">In its sacrificial genocide version, neoliberalism is a mixture of market radicalization, neoconservatism and Christian fundamentalism. </span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Specifically, sacrificing citizens for the security of others enables a bio-political decision-making that makes warfare inevitable.</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**Giroux, 6** - Professor at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">(Henry A., Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Bio politics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">While bio politics in Foucault and Hardt and Negri addresses the relations between politics and death, bio politics in their views is less concerned with the primacy of death than with the production of life both as an individual and a social category. In Giorgio Agamben's formulation, **__the new bio-politics is the deadly administration of what he calls "bare life," and its ultimate incarnation is the Holocaust with its ominous specter of the concentration camp. In this formulation, the__** Nazi death camps become the primary exemplar of control, the new space of contemporary politics in which **__individuals are no longer viewed as citizens but are now seen as inmates, stripped of everything, including their right to live. T__**he uniting of power and bare life, the reduction of the individual to homo sacer the sacred man who under certain states of exception "may be killed and yet not sacrificed “no [End Page 179] longer represents the far end of political life (1998, 8). That is, in this updated version of the ancient category of homo sacer is the human who stands beyond the confines of both human and divine law"a human who can be killed without fear of punishment" (Bauman 2003, 133). According to Agamben, **__as modern states increasingly suspend their democratic structures, laws, and principles, the very nature of governance changes as "the rule of law is routinely displaced by the state of exception, or emergency, and people are increasingly subject to extra-judicial state violence__**" (Bull 2004, 3). The life unfit for life, unworthy of being lived, as the central category of homo sacer, is no longer marginal to sovereign power but is now central to its form of governance. State violence and totalitarian power, which, in the past, either were generally short-lived or existed on the fringe of politics and history, have now become the rule, rather than the exception, as **__life is more ruthlessly regulated and placed in the hands of military and state power.__**</span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Linking militarism to imperialist histories provides the necessary discursive tool to create effective political strategy. It enables us to analyze our global exportation of our insecurities and draft policies that learn from our history of military domination.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peter Dickens, Department of Sociology University of Cambridge, The Monthly Review,</span></span>
“US Military Bases and Empire,” Volume 53, Number 10, March <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002,</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline0">U.S. global political, economic, and financial power thus require the periodic exercise of military power.</span> The other advanced capitalist countries tied into this system have also become reliant on the United States as the main enforcer of the rules of the game<span class="underline0">. The positioning of U.S. military bases should therefore be judged not as a purely military phenomenon, but as a mapping out of the U.S.-dominated imperial sphere and of its spearheads within the periphery.</span> What is clear at present and bears repeating is that such bases are now being acquired in areas where the United States had previously lost much of its “forward presence,” such as in South Asia, the Middle East/Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean, or in regions where U.S. bases have not existed previously, such as the Balkans and Central Asia. There can be no doubt, therefore, that <span class="underline0">the last remaining superpower is presently on a course of imperial expansion, as a means of promoting its political and economic interests, and that the present war on terrorism, which is in many ways an indirect product of the projection of U.S. power, is now being used to justify the further projection of that power. </span> For those who choose to oppose these developments there should be no illusion. The global expansion of military power on the part of the hegemonic state of world capitalism is an integral part of economic globalization. **__Resisting these processes of global imperialism require political strategist to begin drafting alternative modes of diplomatic engagement that decenter military hegemony and coercive diplomatic relations that favor only the most industrialized allies. We as political advocates have to be willing to be critical of ourselves as policy makers and recognize and refuse to partake in our insecurities about the world, its chaos, and our imagined enemies.__** **__For the country which has the largest military industrial complex and most grueling history of colonial violence to rebuke its military expansionism__**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">s,</span> would finally say no at the same time to our continued quest for capitalist globalization and imperialism and hence to capitalism itself. </span></span>

**Specifically, adopting a historical critique of U.S. colonial presence in Okinawa will enable a shift in realist policies toward Okinawa and enable local movements against militarism.**
Miyume <span class="Author-Date">Tanji</span>, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, <span class="Author-Date">2007</span> (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">As discussed in this paper, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the Okinawan problem has been predominantly understood as a domestic political issue that stands apart from foreign policy and national/international security questions. This view has been supported and strengthened by the realist and neo- realist perspectives in international relations that have dominated the making and the understanding of alliance politics__</span> in northeast Asia even after the Cold War. <span class="DebateUnderline">__The insecurity of__</span> [end page 11] <span class="DebateUnderline">__Okinawan residents and abuse of their minority status and rights within Japan have thus been considered ‘outside the scope of analyses’ as far as the Japan-US security alliance is concerned__</span>__.__ After the Cold War, <span class="DebateUnderline">__alternative international relations perspectives__</span> expanded theoretical horizons. It became possible to <span class="DebateUnderline">__open national security issues up to questions of national history, identity and culture. Constructivism is useful in addressing the oversights of realist and__</span> neo-realist, as well as <span class="DebateUnderline">__liberal institutionalist theory__</span>__.__ Within these expanded horizons Okinawa becomes an opportunity for Japan to begin reconstructing its identity in the international realm as well as vis-à-vis the US as an ally. The absolute closure of Futenma</span> (i.e. without relocation within Okinawa) <span class="DebateUnderline">__is__</span> also <span class="DebateUnderline">__a demand consistent with the international norms such as human security____, repudiation__ __of militarism and gender violence, as well as arms reduction. Adhering to such norms would enable Japan to \transform its image among nations in northeast Asia and the Asia-Pacific. Taking a more assertive position would also create breathing space in its currently exclusive relations with the US. Japan would become a sovereign rather than a ‘client state’. This would certainly contribute positively towards the building of a multilateral security regime in the region that is not controlled by the dominant US interests__</span>__.__ Historically speaking, Japan stands at a crossroad in a changing international landscape. Japan can choose a diplomatic path that either extends or begins to deviate from the basic trajectory established during the Cold War. It can remain a US client state__, a junior ally,__ seeking to avoid offending the superior partner at any cost. This will involve a greater military contribution to the US global mission and Japan is on course to considerably upgrade (as well as legalise) its own military capability of overseas military offense. <span class="DebateUnderline">__The opportunity costs of this course of action are high__</span>. So, one might argue, are the costs of change: it might cost the US alliance. But is this a real fear? Today, alliance with Japan is clearly indispensable for the US too. Of all US allies, Japan is the most generous host nation. The 7th Pacific Fleet permanently stationed in Yokosuka is more important than any other overseas US facility. These factors alone make Japan one of the most important allies to the US. What does this mean? It means, finally, that <span class="DebateUnderline">__after the kicking and screaming, a Japanese refusal to allow the relocation of Futenma Air Base within Okinawa is unlikely to permanently damage the alliance with the US. This is not a credible excuse for the Japanese government not to be brave and grown up__</span> either.
**And U.S. policy makers have an obligation to admit their complicity in the imperialism of Okinawa.**
Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">‘The twentieth century has not been kind to Okinawa. In many ways its geography determined its fate’ (McCormack, 2003: 109) <span class="DebateUnderline">__Okinawa’s situation__</span> __or ‘problem’__ is often explained away in terms of geography__. A curve of stepping-stones between larger neighbouring countries, Okinawa was fated to be dominated; or was it?__ This argument downplays the active policy of the Japanese government in first expropriating, and then marginalizing Okinawa economically and politically</span>__.__ Okinawa is now considered a ‘war prefecture’ within a peace state __(Hook & Siddle, 2003b: 243).__ However, it was once a state at peace. As a united and independent kingdom that had chosen not to have a military force, the Ryukyu Islands were a centre for trade from the fifteenth century onwards__. ‘Given’ to the daimyo (lord) of Satsuma province from 1609 by the shogun (military leader) Tokugawa Ieyasu,__ the Ryukyu kingdom retained a semi-independent status until its forced incorporation into the modern state of Japan in 1879 __8.__ Representatives from the new prefecture of Okinawa requested that the islands should not be sites of military garrisons, but without success __(Kerr, 1958: 370). A strict top-down assimilation policy was introduced while the newly-named Okinawans debated the benefits and drawbacks of being ‘Japanese’ (Rabson, 1996). Although heavily taxed,__ it took twenty-two years before the people of Okinawa were represented in the ‘democratic’ government of the state__.__ After decades of Japanese rule, Okinawa was still perceived as marginal, backward and vulnerable because of questionable loyalties to the Japanese state__. Rabson describes it as a cruel irony that__ in 1945 the Battle of Okinawa was thus seen ‘as an opportunity to prove, once and for all, their loyalty to Japan and full assimilation as Japanese’ __(Rabson, 1996).__ Over 200,000 Okinawan people were killed in the Battle of Okinawa – a quarter of the population. Thousands died at the hands of Japanese soldiers, killed directly or indirectly through mass forced ‘suicides’ __(Hein & Selden, 2003: 14).__ The Battle of Okinawa has since been __[end page 95]__ described as a reckless and unnecessary sacrifice of lives; ‘Okinawans died simply to put off the inevitable surrender just a little longer’ __(Hein & Selden, 2003: 14). National security at this time did not cover the security of all Japan; ‘the wartime state was oppressor far more that it was protector of Okinawans’ (Hein & Selden, 2003: 14).__ The idea of Okinawa as ‘expendable’ to a callous central government__, a recurring theme in anti-Tokyo critiques,__ had its foundations laid in the graves of Okinawa’s too many dead__. At the end of the Second World War, Okinawa could still not rely on the protection of its national government.__ The U.S. took and retained control of Okinawa until its reversion to Japan in 1972__. At first Japan had little choice but to accept the situation, and later, in exchange for allowing U.S. bases on its territory (Tokyo had ‘residual sovereignty’ over Okinawa) it gained economic benefits including ‘preferential access to the American market’ while the U.S. would ‘tolerate [Japan’s] protectionism and mercantilism’ (Johnson, 2002).__ Unfortunately for Okinawa it was deemed a strategic military post within Asia and so the U.S. policymakers insisted that they ‘must retain administrative control over most of the Ryukyu Islands which entailed forcible land seizures, denials of legal rights, and numerous inconveniences and indignities’ __(Rabson, 1996). Japanese writers have commented acidly that__ while Okinawans lost their families, their land and their livelihoods, Tokyo did nothing__;__ ‘**__Both the U.S. government and Japan have a colonial lineage of oppressive political, economic, and military practices over Okinawa, ranging from forced renaming of the area, to military expansionism., and racist sexual exploitation. Unfortunately, these histories are washed away by a realist security logic that separates “domestic” and international issues and prioritizes threat prevention over human rights. Confronting this securitization requires a remembering of colonial histories and a constructivist critique of knowledge production which exposes the political incentive to forget centuries of colonial take over. This issue is not only a Japan issue, as U.S. policymakers we have to remember our support of and complicity in Okinawa’s history of genocide and domination. We have an obligation to acknowledge and address our genocidal behaviors and militaristic agendas. We have an obligation to stand up in the face of ugly colonial past and refuse to let it live another day. Our ignorance to our own artifacts of colonialism will only become a self-fulfilling prophecy that reproduces the reliving of histories worst genocides.__**
**Identifying the everyday structural violence of the Okinawan people is key to challenging the status quo crisis-driven politics. That comes first**
Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy, ‘96
(Chris Cuomo is a <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">theorist</span></span>, <span class="debateunderline0"><span style="color: black;">activist</span></span>, and artist, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies at the University of Georgia. Chris holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. She has been awarded grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the Charles Phelps Taft Center, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45 Published by: Blackwell Publishing, P. JSTOR//DN)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Theory that does not__ __investigate__ __or even notice the__ __omnipresence of militarism cannot represent__ __or address the depth and specificity of the__ __everyday effects of militarism on women____, on people living in occupied territories, on members of military institutions, and on the environment__</span>. These effects are relevant to feminists in a number of ways because <span class="DebateUnderline">__m____ilitary practices and institutions help__ __construct gendered and national identity, and because they justify__ __the destruction of natural nonhuman entities__ </span>and communities <span class="DebateUnderline">**__during__** **__peacetime__**  __Lack of attention to these aspects__ </span><span class="apple-style-span">of</span> the business of making or preventing <span class="apple-style-span">military violence</span> in an extremely technologized world <span class="apple-style-span">results </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__in theory that cannot accommodate the connections among__</span> the constant pres- ence of <span class="DebateUnderline">__militarism, declared wars, and__ __other__ __closely related social phenomena__</span>, such as nationalistic glorifications of motherhood, media violence, and current ideological gravitations to military solutions for social problems. <span class="DebateUnderline">__Ethical__ __approaches that do not attend to the ways in which warfare and military practices are woven into the very fabric of life in twenty-first century technological states lead to crisis-based politics and analyses. For any feminism that aims to resist oppression and create alternative social and political options,__ __crisis-based ethics and politics are__ __problematic because they distract attention from the need for sustained resistance__ __to the enmeshed, omnipresent systems of domination and oppression that so often function as givens in most people's lives. Neglecting the omnipresence of militarism__ __allows the false belief that the absence of declared armed conflicts is peace,__ __t__</span>he polar opposite of war. It is particularly easy for those whose lives are shaped by the safety of privilege, and who do not regularly encounter the realities of militarism, to maintain this false belief<span class="apple-style-span">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__The belief that militarism is an ethical, political concern only regarding armed conflict, creates forms of resistance to militarism that are merely exercises in crisis control. Antiwar resistance is then mobilized when the "real" violence finally occurs, or when the stability of privilege is directly threatened, and at that point it is difficult not to respond in ways that make resisters drop all other political priorities. Crisis-driven attention to declarations of war might actually keep resisters complacent about and complicitous in the general presence of global militarism. Seeing war as necessarily embedded in constant military presence draws attention to the fact that horrific, state-sponsored violence is happening nearly all over, all of the time, and that it is perpetrated by military institutions and other militaristic agents of the state. Moving away from crisis-driven politics__</span> and ontologies concerning war and military violence also <span class="DebateUnderline">__enables consideration of relationships among seemingly disparate phenomena, and therefore can shape more nuanced theoretical and practical forms of resistance.__</span> __For example,__ investigating the ways in which war is part of a presence allows consideration of the relationships among the events of war and</span> __the following:__ how militarism is a foundational trope in the social and political imagination; how the pervasive presence and symbolism of soldiers/warriors/patriots shape meanings of gender; the ways in which threats of state-sponsored violence are a sometimes invisible/sometimes bold agent of racism, nationalism, and corporate interests<span class="DebateUnderline">;</span> the fact that vast numbers of communities, cities, and nations are currently in the midst of excruciatingly violent circumstances. <span class="DebateUnderline">__It also provides a lens for considering the relationships among the various kinds of violence that get labeled "war.__</span><span class="apple-style-span">"</span> Given current American obsessions with nationalism, guns, and militias, and growing hunger for the death penalty, prisons, and a more powerful police state, one cannot underestimate the need for philosophical and political attention to connec- tions among phenomena like the "war on drugs," the "war on crime," and other state-funded militaristic campaigns. I propose that the constancy of militarism and its effects on social reality be reintroduced as a crucial locus of contemporary feminist attentions, and that feminists emphasize how wars are eruptions and manifestations of omnipresent militarism that is a product and tool of multiply oppressive, corporate, tech- nocratic states.2 Feminists should be particularly interested in making <span class="apple-style-span">this shift</span> because it better allows consideration of the effects of war and militarism on women, subjugated peoples, and environments. While giving attention to the constancy of militarism in contemporary life we need not neglect the impor- tance of addressing the specific qualities of direct, large-scale, declared military conflicts. <span class="DebateUnderline">__But the dramatic nature of declared, large-scale conflicts should not obfuscate the ways in which military violence pervades most societies in increasingly technologically sophisticated ways__</span> and the significance of mili- tary institutions and everyday practices in shaping reality. Philosophical <span class="DebateUnderline">__discussions that focus only on the ethics of declaring and fighting wars miss these connections, and also miss the ways in which even declared military conflicts are often experienced as omnipresent horrors.__</span> These approaches also leave unquestioned tendencies to suspend or distort moral judgement in the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism 
====Plan==== 
**__Thus, Mitchell and I demand, The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan by withdrawing all troops and closing all bases in Okinawa.__**

<span style="tab-stops: 202.5pt;">**We defend that military presence in Okinawa is bad and that withdrawal is better. We also defend the consequences of that withdrawal. However, our argument is that our justifications for withdrawing are just as important as the withdrawal itself. A congressman does not stand up and read a policy and neither should we. Our entire 1ac is a reason why the current normative practices of debates on international relations refuse to acknowledge critical epistemologies that challenge U.S. realism, and why such practices lead to flawed policy. Thus your framework of evaluation cannot view our withdrawal in a vacuum the role is to view our withdrawal through the lenses of our representations.**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 202.5pt;">Here s the offense</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their framework arguments lay the foundational claims which allow imperial domination- epistemologically excluding certain forms of knowledge and advocacy, maintains the myth of neutrality and intellectual superiority which allows U.S. colonialism. Our departure from normative pedagogy is the only way to expose and challenge imperialism.</span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McLaren and Kincheloe in 5 </span></span>(Peter Professor of Education, Graduate School of Education and Information Studies @ UCLA and Joe, professor and Canada Research Chair at the Faculty of Education, McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. __The Sage Handbook of Qualitative Research__, Third Edition, Eds Norman Denzin and Yvonna Lincoln)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this context, it is important to note that </span>**__we understand__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a </span>**__social theory as a__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">map or a </span>**__guide to the social sphere__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a research context, </span>**__it__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">does not determine how we see the world but </span>**__helps us devise__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">questions and </span>**__strategies for exploring it__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__A critical__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">social </span>**__theory is concerned__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in particular </span>**__with issues of power and justice and the ways__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that the economy; matters of race, class, and gender; </span>**__ideologies; discourses__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; education; religion </span>**__and other__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">social </span>**__institutions__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; and cultural dynamics </span>**__interact to construct a social system__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Beck-Gernsheim, Butler, & Puigvert, 2003; Flccha, Gomez, & Puigvert, 2003). Thus, in this context we seek to provide a view of an evolving criticality or a reconceptualized critical theory. </span><span class="underline0">Critical theory is never static</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; it is always evolving, changing in light of both new theoretical insights and new problems and social circumstances. The list of concepts elucidating our articulation of critical theory indicates a criticality informed by a variety of discourses emerging after the work of the Frankfurt School Indeed, some of the theoretical discourses, while referring to themselves as critical, directly call into question some of the work of Horkheimer, Adorno, and Marcuse. Thus, diverse theoretical traditions have informed our understanding of criticality and have demanded understanding of diverse forms of oppression including class, race, gender, sexual, cultural, religious, colonial, and ability-related concerns. The evolving notion of criticality we present is informed by, while critiquing, the post-discourses—for example, postmodernism, poststructuralism, and postcolonialism. In this context, </span>**__critical political__** <span class="underline0">theorists become detectives of new theoretical insights, perpetually searching for new and interconnected ways of understanding power and oppression and the ways they shape everyday life</span> **__and policy. In this context__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="underline0">criticality and the research it supports are always</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> evolving, always </span><span class="underline0">encountering new ways to irritate dominant forms of power, to provide more evocative and compelling insights.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Operating in this way, an evolving criticality is always vulnerable to exclusion from the domain of approved modes of research. </span><span class="underline0">The forms of social change it supports always position it in some places as an outsider, an awkward detective always interested in uncovering social structures, discourses, ideologies, and epistemologies that prop up both the status quo and a variety of forms of privilege. In the epistemological domain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, white, male, class elitist, heterosexist</span><span class="underline0">, imperial, and colonial privilege often operates by asserting the power to claim objectivity and neutrality.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed</span><span class="underline0">, the owners of such privilege often own the "franchise" on reason and rationality. Proponents of an evolving criticality possess a variety of tools to expose such oppressive power politics.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Such proponents assert that critical theory is well-served by drawing upon numerous liberatory discourses and including diverse groups of marginalized peoples and their allies in the nonhierarchical aggregation of critical analysts {Bello, 2003; Clark, 2002; Humphries, 1997). </span><span class="underline0">In the present era, emerging forms of neocolonialism and neo-imperialism in the United States move critical theorists to examine the wavs American power operates under the cover of establishing democracies all over the world. Advocates of an evolving criticality argue</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—as we do in more detail later in this chapter—</span><span class="underline0">that such neocolonial power must be exposed so it can be opposed in the United States and around the world. The American Empires justification in the name of freedom for undermining democratically elected governments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from Iran (Kincheloe, 2004), Chile, Nicaragua, and Venezuela to Liberia (</span><span class="underline0">when its real purpose is to acquire geopolitical advantage for future military assaults, economic leverage in international markets, and access to natural resources) must be exposed by critical-ists for what it is—a rank imperialist sham</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (McLaren, 2003a, 2003b; McLaren & Jaramillo, 2002; McLaren & Martin, 2003). </span><span class="underline0">Critical researchers need to view their work in the context of living and working in a nation-state with the most powerful military-industrial complex in history</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that is shamefully using the terrorist attacks of September 11 to advance a ruthless imperialist agenda fueled by capitalist accumulation by means of the rule of force (McLaren & Farahmandpur,2003). Chomsky (2003), for instance, has accused the U.S. government of the "supreme crime" of preventive war (in the case of its invasion of Iraq, the use of military force to destroy an invented or imagined threat) of the type that was condemned at Kuremburg. Others, like historian Arthur Schlesinger (cited in Chomsky, 2003), have likened the invasion of Iraq to Japan's "day of infamy'' that is, to the policy that imperial Japan employed at the time of Pearl Harbor. David G. Smith (2003) argues </span><span class="underline0">that such imperial dynamics are supported by particular epistemological forms. The United States is an epistemological empire based on a notion of truth that undermines the knowledges produced by those outside the good graces and benevolent authority of the empire.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, in the 21 st century, </span><span class="underline0">critical theoristsmust develop sophisticated ways to address not only the brute material relations of class rule linked to the mode and relations of capitalist production and imperialist conquest (whether through direct military intervention or indirectly through the creation of client states) but also the epistemological violence that helps discipline the world Smith refers to this violence as a form of "information warfare" that spreads deliberate falsehoods</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> about countries such as Iraq and Iran. </span><span class="underline0">U.S. corporate and governmental agents become more sophisticated in the use of such episto-weaponry with every day that passes.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Obviously, </span><span class="underline0">an evolving criticality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> does not promiscuously choose theoretical discourses to add to the bricolage of critical theories. It </span><span class="underline0">is highly suspicious</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—as we detail later—</span><span class="underline0">of theories that fail to understand the malevolent workings of power, that fail to critique the blinders of Eurocentrism, that cultivate an elitism of insiders and outsiders, and that fail to discern a global system of inequity supported by diverse forms of ideology and violence. It is uninterested in any theory</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—no matter how fashionable—</span><span class="underline0">that does not directly address the needs of victims of oppression and the suffering they must endure.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The following is an elastic, ever-evolving set of concepts included in our evolving notion of criticality. With theoretical innovations and shifting Zeitgeists, they evolve. The points that are deemed most important in one time period pale in relation to different points in a new era. <P306-307></span></span>
**Finally, Reps must precede policy discussion.** 
<span style="color: black;">Neta </span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">Crawford</span> <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200</span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">2</span><span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21</span>
<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">are unlikely to take place unless</span></span><span style="color: black;"> and until </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">actors,</span></span><span style="color: black;"> at least on some level, </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">agree on what they are arguing about</span></span><span style="color: black;">. The at least temporary </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">resolution of meta-arguments- regarding</span></span><span style="color: black;"> the nature of the good (the content of </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">prescriptive norms);</span></span><span style="color: black;"> what is out there, </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">the way we know the world,</span></span><span style="color: black;"> how we decide between competing beliefs (</span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">ontology and epistemology); and</span></span><span style="color: black;"> the nature of the situation at hand( </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">the proper frame or representation)- </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">must occur before specific arguments that could lead to decision and action may take place.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Meta-arguments over epistemology and ontology, relatively rare, occur in instances where there is a fundamental clash between belief systems and not simply a debate within a belief system. Such </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">arguments over the nature of the world and how we come to know it are </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">particularly rare in politics</span></span><span style="color: black;"> though they are more frequent in religion and science. Meta-arguments over the “good” are contests over what it is good and right to do, and even how we know the good and the right. They are about the nature of the good, specifically, defining the qualities of “good” so that we know good when we see it and do it. Ethical arguments are about how to do good in a particular situation. </span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">More common</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> are meta-arguments over representations</span></span><span style="color: black;"> or frames- </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">about how we out to understand a particular situation.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Sometimes actors agree on how they see a situation. More often there are different possible interpretations. Thomas Homer-Dixon and Roger karapin suggest, </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">“Argument and debate occur when people try to gain acceptance for their interpretation of the world”.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> For example, “is the war defensive or aggressive?”. </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">Defining and controlling representations and images</span></span><span style="color: black;">, or the frame, </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">affects whether one thinks there is an issue at stake and </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">whether a particular argument applies</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> to the case</span></span><span style="color: black;">. An actor fighting a defensive war is within international law; an aggressor may legitimately be subject to sanctions. Framing and reframing involve mimesis or putting forward representations of what is going on. In mimetic meta-arguments, </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">actors</span></span><span style="color: black;"> who are struggling to characterize or </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">frame the situation accomplish their ends by drawing vivid pictures of the “reality” through </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">exaggeration</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">, analogy, or differentiation</span></span><span style="color: black;">. </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">Representations of a situation </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">do not re-produce accurately</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> so much as they </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">creatively re-present</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> situations in a way that makes sense</span></span><span style="color: black;">. “mimesis is a metaphoric or ‘iconic argumentation of the real.’ </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">Imitating not the effectivity of events but their logical structure and meaning</span></span><span style="color: black;">.” </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">Certain features are emphasized and others de-emphasized </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">or completely ignored</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> as their situation is</span></span><span style="color: black;"> recharacterized or </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">reframed</span></span><span style="color: black;">. </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">Representation</span></span><span style="color: black;"> thus </span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">becomes a “constraint on reasoning in that it limits understanding to a specific organization of conceptual knowledge</span></span><span style="color: black;">.” </span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">The dominant representation delimits which arguments will be considered legitimate, framing how actors see possibities</span></span><span style="color: black;">. As Roxanne Doty argues, “</span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">the possibility of practices presupposes the ability of an agent to imagine certain courses of action</span></span><span style="color: black;">. Certain background meanings, kinds of social actors and relationships, must already be in place.” If, as Donald Sylvan and Stuart Thorson argue, “</span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;">politics involves the selective privileging of representations, “it </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">may not matter whether one representation or another is true or not</span></span><span style="color: black;">.</span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> **Emphasizing whether frames articulate accurate or inaccurate perceptions misses the rhetorical import** of representation- how frames affect what is seen or not seen, and subsequent choices. </span></span><span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black;">Meta-arguments over representation are thus crucial elements of political argument</span></span><span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black;"> because an actor’s arguments about what to do will be more persuasive if their characterization or framing of the situation holds sway</span></span><span style="color: black;">. But, as Rodger Payne suggests, “No frame is an omnipotent persuasive tool that can be decisively wielded by norm entrepreneurs without serious political wrangling.” Hence framing is a meta-argument. </span>



=Negative= 
===== ===== 
=====**Kritik of Western Conventionalism**===== 

[[#_GoBack]]**The linguistic representation of countries as failed or irrational is part of a neo-colonial discourse of otherness that supports an interventionist politics of social and economic takeover. The aff’s interests are not driven by the protecting of potential victims of violence but rather in controlling non-western states.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Morton ‘5** (Adam David, School of Politics @ Univ. of Nottingham, ‘5 [Sept, New Political Economy 10.3, “The ‘Failed State’ of International Relations,” muse])</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; text-decoration: none;">This policy-making approach represents a pathological</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> . . . </span></span>as self-defence and as humanitarian or public-spirited’.22 
**Specific links go here**
**See through the smoke – the affirmative uses humanitarianism to disguise their true imperial interest. Representing danger as imminent and intervention as humanitarian and moral, convinces us as citizens to support the worst form of bio-political violence-bare life.**
**Ibur, 9** – Professor of Political Science at the CUNY Graduate Center <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Aaron M. “Humanitarian Intervention, the Responsibility to Protect, and Abuse of the Law: The Internationalization of States of Exception,” February 15-18, All Academic)</span>

It would appear that the emerging responsibility . . . <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">with impunity for the sake of political expediency</span>

**And the affirmatives representation underlies the motivations for every major imperial frontier the Western World has embarked on. Giving in will result in yet another sacrificial genocide, where we are willing to exterminate a whole population to secure our own. Soon we may be victim to the next collective suicide.**
**Santos ‘3**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal) and Distinguished Scholar at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Law School. "Collective Suicide?" March 28, 2003 online [[http://www.ces.fe.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php]]</span>; ₦)

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Style1Char">According to Franz Hinkelammert</span>, <span class="UNDERLINEChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the West</span> . . . </span><span class="Style1Char">market radicalization, neoconservatism and Christian fundamentalism. </span> </span>

**And this guts case solvency- the construct of western idealism results in failed policy action, as policies are designed in ways that ignore historical and cultural differences between non-western countries.**
**Boas and Jennings 2005 [**Morten and Kathleen M., Researchers at the Fafo Institute for International Studies "Insecurity and Development: The Rhetoric of 'Failed States'" The European Journal of Development Research Vol.17 No. 3 pp.385-395] 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">Few would disagree with general statements such as . . . </span>improve outcomes in the states and regions in question.</span>


**And our Alternative- Text- Vote negative to reject the 1ac’s representation of deviancy from western norms, in favor of an examination of strategies of colonial domination**
**And the alt solves, A shift in focus would open analysis to the different processes of state formation and historical circumstances of developing states and permit the appreciation of alternative modes of social organization that stand in opposition to colonialism**
Bilgin and Morton ‘4
Pinar BILGIN IR @ Bilikent AND Adam David MORTON Senior Lecturer and Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice IR @ Nottingham ‘4 
(“From ‘Rogue’ to ‘Failed’ States? The Fallacy of Short-termism” Politics 24 (3) p. Wiley Interscience//DN)

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">An alternative approac</span>h would therefore . . . international conflict might be within developing states.
**And, resistance begins at the level of the academy. Knowledge production inscribes social hierarchy; we must depart from normative discourse.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>
This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional . . . , or choose not to understand them, and why?

**Finally, Reps must precede policy discussion.**
<span style="color: black;">Neta </span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">Crawford</span> <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. Argument and Change in World Politics, 200</span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">2</span><span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21</span>
<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">are unlikely to take place unless</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> . . . </span></span><span style="color: black;">Hence framing is a meta-argument.</span>

===== ===== 
=====**Security 1NC**===== 

**The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices</span></span><span style="font-size: 3pt;"> in . .</span>. . . <span style="font-size: 3pt;"> . </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">It is through this very practice of normative statecraft,17 which produces threatening Others, that the international sphere comes into being.</span></span><span style="font-size: 3pt;"> David Campbell adds that it is by constantly articulating danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

<span class="Underline">[We read specific links here]</span>

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their descriptions will be used to justify massive violence**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Karsten **Friis,** UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="Underline">The problem with societal securitization is one of representation. . . where truth is never questioned. </span></span>

**Vote negative to reject the violent logic of security. Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">inability to give meaning to global changes reflects</span> . . . </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">through policy-making processes. Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Representations must precede policy discussion</span></span>**
<span style="color: black;">Neta </span>**<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span></span>** <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200</span>**<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21</span>
<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">are unlikely to take place unless</span><span style="color: black;"> . . . </span></span><span style="color: black;">Hence framing is a meta-argument. </span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]