[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**India/Pakistan Plan AC**</span>=== 

OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:
V: Morality

Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.
Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

"But the human...or go forward."

Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.
Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

"This question brings...to have it?"

Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.

Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29

"The fact that...as an individual."

S: Treating people as ends in themselves.

OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament

ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:

The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers

Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.

"In South Asia...restriction on India."

A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.
Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.

"What is morally...kind of case."

B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.
Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.

"What is also...about to do."

ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:

A) Accidental Launch is likely.
Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service

"In addition to...strike from India."

B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE
Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.

"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."

C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.
V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.

"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."

Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.
Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”

"Even a limited...a global scale."

ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:

The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.
Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.

"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."

Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.
J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.

"in terms of...might be used."

Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.
Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.

"Last week's brutal...global security concerns."

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Security Dilemma NC**</span>=== 

Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."


In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"But let us...for disarmament research."

The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.
Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.

"Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."

preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.

Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2

"War accounts for..of our civilization."


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The risks to the population are growing rapidly. Something must be done.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov—December 2001. [Strathdee is at the Department of Epidemiology, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhsph.edu/|Bloomberg School of Public Health]]</span>, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov is a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Effectiveness of Needle Exchange Programs: A Review of the Science and Policy. AIDS Science, Vol. 1, No. 16.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "multiperson use of...epidemic takes hold."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Total HIV/AIDS deaths and mortality rates in injection drug users are high. In just 33 States, over 8 years, nearly 6,000 HIV/AIDS deaths were caused by injection drug use.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Anna Grigoryan, H. Irene Durant, Tonji Durant, and Xiangming Wei—13 February 2009. [Grigoryan, H. I. Durant, and T. Durant work in the Centers for Disease Control Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. Wei works at the McKing Consulting Corporation]. Late HIV Diagnosis and Determinants of Progression to AIDS or Death after HIV Diagnosis among Injection Drug Users, 33 US States, 1996–2004. PLoS ONE, Vol. 4, No. 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "of 232,685 persons...IDU's had survived."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "From the year...of HCV acquisition."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: </span>


Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Affirmative-NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED]]NEEDLE EXCHANGE PLAN AC--UPDATED**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We must not...to save many."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S: Minimizing suffering</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John B. Wong M.D., Geraldine M. McQuillan, PhD, John G. McHutchison M.D., and Thierry Poynard, M.D.—October 2000. [Wong is with the Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. McQuillan is with the National Center for Health Statistics. McHutchison is with the Division of Gastroenterology–Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation. Poynard is with Groupe Hospitalier in France]. Estimating Future Hepatitis C Morbidity, Mortality, and Costs in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 90, No. 10.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the United...to 20 years."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. The literature on this question is rock solid. Harm reduction is literally the definition of the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The above findings...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "SEP's have been...infected with HIV."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Reflecting on this...of our communities."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative]]Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-SOCIAL MESSAGING NC]]SOCIAL MESSAGING NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Institutions of criminal justice play a unique role in society; they vindicate the moral authority of the community as against the individual’s assertion of moral superiority to shared moral sensibilities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Criminals victimize the community writ large by placing themselves above the law.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We tend by...as he wishes."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment conveys moral censure and so rejects the offender’s assertion of his own moral superiority.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 308.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "so how can...offender's wrongful action."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Punishment vindicates the rights of the victim and communicates a moral message to society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "moreover, the censure...up requiring it."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I contend that the public health paradigm shifts the focus away from punishment and so fails to vindicate the rights of society and the victim.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#November-December-Negative-START DA]] START DA </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass by the end of the year.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As President …over national security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. Obama’s capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Unfortunately, the polarizing …votes is not a given.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Without political capital, opposition can’t be solved and START will never pass.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hurlburt 10 (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Jonathan Cohn falls …they are not."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-T: ILLEGAL]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: ILLEGAL</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Illegal means prohibited by law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Illegal.” Law Dictionary. Baron’s Educational Series, Inc. 2003. Accessed from Answers.com.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Against the Law..injunctions, is illegal."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION: The AFF legalizes drugs, making drugs legal rather than illegal.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on fairness.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important. </span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-THEORY: LEGALIZATION NEEDS TEXT]]THEORY: LEGALIZATION NEEDS TEXT**</span>=== 

A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: <span style="font-family: Calibri;">If the affirmative defends drug legalization, they must provide a text for their advocacy in which they specify regulatory mechanisms and methods of implementation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First is Link Ground.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The implementation of any legalization scheme is key to assess its impact upon society. Absent a specified advocacy, there is almost no way for the negative to generate offense against the 1AC.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Charles Stimson—13 September 2010. [Senior Legal Fellow in the Center for Legal & Judicial Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Fmr. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. Fmr. local, state, federal, and military prosecutor. Fmr. defense attorney and law professor]. Legalize Marijuana: Why Citizens Should Just Say No. The Heritage Foundation. Legal Memorandum #56.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Theoretical arguments in...theft and assault."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second is Stable Advocacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-T: DRUGS--PLURAL]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: DRUGS--PLURAL</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Drugs is plural</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-T: NOT CRIMINAL JUSTICE]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: NOT CRIMINAL JUSTICE</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: Not criminal justice means the AFF may not treat drug abuse as a matter of criminal justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grammar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-T: EFFECTS]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T: EFFECTS</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: The planks of the AFF advocacy must be topical. It may not derive topicality from its effects.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Predictable Limits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Topicality is especially important</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Negative-THEORY: AFF SPECIFICATION NEEDS ADVOCACY]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THEORY: AFF SPECIFICATION NEEDS ADVOCACY</span>**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) IS THE INTERPRETATION: The affirmative must defend a specific policy proposal that treats the abuse of illegal substances as a matter of public health not of criminal justice. The advocacy must specify the actor, policy, regulatory mechanisms, and implementation methods and be backed by a solvency advocate with an advanced degree in a relevant scholarly field.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B) IS THE VIOLATION:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C) IS THE STANDARDS:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stable Advocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> -Without specifying its advocacy the AFF can no-link or permute any negative argument.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> -Stable advocacies are also better for the AFF.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [1] Michael Greenstein—No Date. [Fmr. Director of Debate at Georgetown. Current Director of Debate at Glenbrooks North High School]. What Should Debate Be About. The Rostrum. 35.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The framework for...the entire debate."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D) IS THE IMPACT:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vote on Fairness </span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#November-December-Negative-A2: NEEDLE EXCHANGE]] A2: NEEDLE EXCHANGE </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative has it backwards, needle exchange programs only increase drug use by providing the necessary tools to use drugs and sends a message that drug use is ok.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MaLina Church-2010 [Professor at Pacific Lutheran University], “Is the Needle Exchange Project Beneficial or Harmful?”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Needle Exchange...drug using population."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Needle exchange programs simply increase the amount of dirty needles on the streets available to drug users.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MaLina Church-2010 [Professor at Pacific Lutheran University], “Is the Needle Exchange Project Beneficial or Harmful?”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Needle exchange programs...their drug habit."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recent studies aren’t accurate. According to a meta-analytical study which examined 5 leading needle exchange policy studies, the studies are subject to many limitations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Amy Norton. Rueters. “Do needle-exchange programs really work?” March 11, 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Studies looking at...in needle-exchange."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NEP'S don't solve HCV.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Palmateer N, Kimber J, Hickman M, Hutchinson S, Rhodes T, Goldberg D (May 2010). "Evidence for the effectiveness of sterile injecting equipment provision in preventing hepatitis C and human immunodeficiency virus transmission among injecting drug users: a review of reviews". Addiction 105 (5): 844–59.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The core reviews...evidence is insufficient (table 3)."</span>
<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Negative**</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> DUE PROCESS AC </span>=== 

OBS 1:
Definition of charge:
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.
"To make an...in the indictment"

Value: Justice
VC: maintaining consistency with the law

First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.
"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."

Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?
"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."


Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)
"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".


CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.
First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."


Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.
"forty years after...in resources remain."


Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>
"By most accounts...to receive services."


Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.
The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"Perhaps the most...look as follows."

The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."
==Negative== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Recidivism NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.
Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.
Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.
"I ask the...as a burden."

Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.
R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.
"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.
"Studies have found...the short run."
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School

"experts have identified...and community reintegration.

Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"Findings from several...tried as adults."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
"The effects of...cannot be understood."

CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison
Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"</span>March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]