[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 
Email [[mailto:flurpleman@gmail.com|flurpleman@gmail.com]] for more information
=Affirmative= 
=***Space Guard= 
==1AC-UGA== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its real time civil Space Situational Awareness capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">TEXT: The United States federal government should develop a real time Space Guard civil Space Situational Awareness sensor network beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">China</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">China is NOT militarizing against us—our relationship is based on the security dilemma</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL:[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311|**__http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311__**]] .] </span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">China’s military space program and … space planning and/or activity.”</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">6 </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This action-reaction planning will escalate to space warfare</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hitchens 2k8</span>** <span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa, president of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February,[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern …</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Our impacts are a whole new game</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Krepon & Clary 2k4</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Krepon Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of …</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">than in dominance</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and compellance.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Brink is now—PLA will push militarization</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">BBC 1/17</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(British Broadcasting Company, “How China is advancing its military reach,” [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-16588557]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">While much attention has been … generation leadership handover this year. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Prefer Advantage framing—the probability of problems that requires cooperation is larger than their one shot disads</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Yudkowsky 2k6</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at [[http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to probability theory, adding … or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The first internal link is our approach toward code of conducts—it solves trafficking and interference</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Krepon et al 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[February 2011, Michael Krepon is the President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and Michael Katz-Hyman is a Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Chapter 20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">We view a</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">code of conduct</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">drawn together as a coherent regime.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This will fail in the status quo because SSA is under the jurisdiction of the Air Force</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bennett 2k10</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute,[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the … </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Commandant</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooperation solves conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deudney 2k9</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">No offense—code of conduct norms are inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kueter 2k7</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jeff, Masters in PoliSci and Security Policy/Science and Technology Studies and President of the George C. Marshall Institute, “China’s Space Ambitions—And Ours” The New Atlantis, Number 16, Spring 2007, pp. 7-22, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/chinas-space-ambitions-and-ours]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Another diplomatic tack contemplated by …</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">be proof enough of that.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The second internal link is verification which fails without civil SSA</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, PhD in International Economics and a senior fellow and program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy” Frontier Volume 7 Number 2, pg 30]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The idea that there are … associated with the Cold War.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">DoD efforts will always fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">GAO 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Despite</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">recent</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">investments, existing SSA … cost, schedule and performance goals. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Only the aff solves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bennett 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue,[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. New responsibilities. In addition … search, rescue, and recovery operations.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Prefer the specific claims of our authors over their general critiques—Decades of research by space policy experts provides the foundation for the 1AC</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bowers et al 8</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008, pg. 8]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Communications, global commerce and national … **<span style="background-color: white;">clarity</span>**</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to space-faring entities.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Nanosats</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nanosats are inevitable in the future</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kelley 10/26</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel”[[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">HUNTSVILLE, Alabama –</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The military has …</span>__ <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">coverage needed by the Army.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">These Nanosats are useless without accurate civil SSA</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Williamson 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ray A. and Agnieszka Lukaszczyk, Secure World Foundation, [[http://swfound.org/media/3559/safeguardingspace-al-2008.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space situational awareness (SSA) should … community in some coordinated way.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">DoD SSA data will fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">GAO 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Despite recent investments</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, existing</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> SSA … cost, schedule and performance goals.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nanosats are key to mitigate global illegal arms trafficking</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Xefteris et al 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Panaiotios Xefteris and Maurizio Fargnoli, Research analysts at NahuelSAT, a Satellite developer and program in Argentina, “Using Small Satellite Constellations to Track and Monitor the Illicit Trafficking in Weapons and Sensitive Technologies” March 30, 2010 Chapter 11, pg 1-2]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Using Small</span> <span class="underline" style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Satellite</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Constellations to … or for law enforcement purposes.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Arms trafficking makes global instability inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stohls 5</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Rachel Stohl 5, senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information in Washington, DC, CDI – Center for Defense Information, “Fighting the Illicit Trafficking of Small Arms,” Winter/Spring 2005 edition of SAIS Review, [[http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?DocumentID=2996]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This trade encompasses illicit trafficking</span> <span class="underline" style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">… arms and light weapons fire.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, it causes failed states</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stohls 5</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Rachel Stohl 5, senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information in Washington, DC, CDI – Center for Defense Information, “The Tangled Web of Illicit Arms Trafficking,” Center for American Progress, 10-12-04, [[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/terrorinshadows-stohl.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Small arms trafficking in the …</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">terrorist organizations emerge and thrive.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cutting off access to small arms undermines terrorist groups</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Freier 5</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jason Freier 5, intelligence specialist currently on contract with the U.S. Department of Defense. He is a Captain in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves and a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom, “Arms and the Terrorist,” The Journal of International Security Affairs, No. 9, Fall, 2005,[[http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2005/09/freier.php]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">March 14, 2005,</span> <span class="underline" style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">eighteen members of an …</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“exacerbate” and “prolong” regional instability.2</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Europe</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Secretive DoD policy is the impediment between US-Europe cooperation over GMES</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gleason 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Col Michael, PhD in IR and is the core division chief of Department of Political Science at US Air Force Academy and associate director and founding team member of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, High Frontier: “Shaping the Future with a New Space Power: Now is the Time” pg 43, Frontier Volume 6, No. 2, pg]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As well, the need for</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">… __secrecy than the US does.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perception of military bias increasing now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chow 9/22</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Tiffany, Writer for Secure World Foundation, a private operating foundation that promotes cooperative solutions for space sustainability and the peaceful uses of space, “Space Situational Awareness Sharing Program: An SWF Issue Brief”, [[http://swfound.org/media/3584/ssa_sharing_program_issue_brief_nov2011.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recent announcements and policies in … accessible SSA data and information.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The reason it fails is SSA’s status under the DoD</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bennett 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute,[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the …</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Commandant</span>__ <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Only the aff solves it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bennett 11</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue,[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. New responsibilities. In addition …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> search, rescue, and recovery operations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">GMES is key to solve Arctic navigation and ice info</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">M&E 11</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Maritime and Energy, “New GMES sea ice information service being established”,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.ksat.no/News/Press-release-GMES.html]]. 8/18/11]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A new three-year 2 million … operating in ice-infested waters.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Leads to broader SSA integration</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gleason 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Col Michael, PhD in IR and is the core division chief of Department of Political Science at US Air Force Academy and associate director and founding team member of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, High Frontier: “Shaping the Future with a New Space Power: Now is the Time” pg 43, Frontier Volume 6, No. 2]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Shaping the Future</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The time … more rapidly than otherwise possible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">That solves Arctic insecurities and miscalc scenarios</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rogers & Gulledge 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Will and Jay,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> *Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security and Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for New American Security, April,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Change in the Arctic will … prepared to meet future challenges.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">These provocations would cause nuclear submarine deployment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">McDonough & Ware 8</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Alexa McDonough MP, Chair PNND Canada and Alyn Ware, PNND Global Coordinator, “Freeing the Poles of Nuclear Conflicts? Time for an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone!” April 17, 2008 pg online @ disarmsecure]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In October 2007 the National Snow …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> such as Canada or Denmark.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">These oil spills will cause a collapse of critical keystone species</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SNS 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[State News Service, “Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexis]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The lawsuit, filed last January, … the Center for Biological Diversity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It also guarantees underwater collisions and “popcorn”-ing</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Edwards 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Rob, freelance journalist who specializes in environmental issues, “Could Nuclear Warheads Go Off ‘like popcorn’”, June 26th,[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg19826625.000-could-nuclear-warheads-go-off-like-popcorn.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">If you thought that the …</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. "It's a very, very scary thought."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Bioaccumulative toxins are guaranteed to cause extinction of the human species—we will only realize once it’s too late</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Montague 91</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter, editor, Rachel’s Health and Envt. Weekly, “Real Hope For The Great Lakes: Local Groups Form 'Zero Discharge Alliance,” Rachel’s Health and Environment Weekly, March 20th 1991, #225]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bioaccumulative toxin</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">s are dangerous because … to the extinction of humans.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Brink is now—ecological collapse causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Donahue 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, 3/7/11, “Pushing The Mother’s Reset Button,” published author of five books, former reporter for The Times Herald, JPL]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is no secret …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to our planet and ourselves**.**</span>

=***SSA= 
==1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan</span>=== 
TEXT: The United States federal government should develop an integrated Space Situational Awareness sensor network beyond the Earth's mesosphere.

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hegemony</span>=== 

**Currently, the U.S. has leveraged advantages in space- cross domain superiority prove**
**Zhang 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311] </span>
__The U.S. is the leader in …__ __atmosphere, space and electromagnetic spectrum.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">16</span>

<span class="Underline">**Countries closing the gap on space capabilities—SSA’s key to prevent parity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bowen and Spier 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip D and Clifton, Director Surveillance and Intelligence Systems at Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company and Director Strategic C4ISR Capabilities Unit Lockheed Martin Information Systems and Global Services, “Space Situational Awareness Architecture Assessment,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, N0. 1, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States holds an … military and civil decision-makers.</span>

**__Scenario 1 is China__**

**China is militarizing in the status quo- ASAT tests and PLA defense trajectory**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zhang 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311 .] </span>
__China’s military space program__ __and … space planning and/or activity.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6 </span>

**China will asymmetrically attack US satellites—empirics**
**Choong 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [William, Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, articles appear in The International Institute of Strategic Studies, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAST month, China lofted a navigational … Soviet Union in 1962 and 1969 respectively.</span>

**Absent strong SSA, deterrence will fail- Recognizing capabilities ‘closes the loop’ on American vulnerabilities**
**Adams & France 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard J and Martin E, Major, Air Force Space Command and Colonel, Air Force Space Command “The Chinese Threat to US Space Superiority,” Winter, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 1, Num. 3, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070622-057.pdf] </span>
__If the US wishes to … neutralize or defeat a stronger foe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Escalation causes extinction – causes resource depletion and destroys MAD**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bhagwat 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat, former Chief of the Naval Staff, India “The Weaponization of Space: Corporate Driven Military Unleashes Pre-emptive Wars” October 17, 2010 http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21432] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As early as 1996, General Joseph … </span>__-sustaining resources__ __of mother earth.__


**__Scenario 2 is First Strike Stability__**

**Rapid space weaponization is occurring in the status quo- threatens U.S. primacy due to a lack of strong SSA capability**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Defense News 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Experts: Deterrence Won't Protect U.S. Satellites - Defense News” By william matthews Published: 13 Nov 17, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3820260&c=AME&s=AIR] </span>
<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the past two years, … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">" to budget cuts, Sheldon warned. </span>

**SSA key to 1st strike credibility – key to deterrence against potential aggressors**
**Morgan 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Forrest E. Morgan Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, //Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment,//Prepared for the United States Air Force 2010] </span>
__While many options exist for … an effective space deterrence regime__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**SSA is key to Early Warning – mitigates the impacts to a space attack and allows us to avoid escalation and deflect attacks**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Wiest 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Todd Wiest, Major USAF, April 2007, “Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030” A Research Report Submitted to the Faculty In Partial Fulfillment of the Graduation Requirements Air Force Command and Staff College] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">With small satellite technology available … </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">other countries’ potentially threatening satellites</span>__

**U.S. first strike credibility checks every global conflict**
**Lieber & Press 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Nukes We Need. By: Lieber, Keir A., Press, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program, Foreign Affairs, 00157120, Nov/Dec2009, Vol. 88, Issue 6] </span>
__The primary purpose of U.S. nuclear … -fire and remain in power.__

**__Scenario 3 is Space Dominance__**

**SSA is key to Information Superiority and space dominance – key to sustain hegemony**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Baines 5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This leads to an argument … opposing space-based weapon deployment. </span>

**SSA is critical to tightening OODA loops – it’s the crucial internal link to heg**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Baines 5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, it is also … </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">discern the absence of a weapon.</span>__

<span class="Underline">Maintaining space superiority key to heg—SSA’s critical</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kitfield 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James, defense correspondent for National Journal in Washington, D.C., “Crowded, Congested Space,” August, Air Force Magazine, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the “commons” above Earth, … </span>__achieving that space situational awareness.__

**American hegemony is necessary to prevent conflict in every region of the world – trade, competition, Indo-Pak war, Russia war, and East Asian War – collapse causes transition wars**
<span class="Heading2Char">Kagan 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History, 6-19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html] </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The jostling for status and … **will provide an easier path**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Heg is best**
**a. Peace isn’t a natural state**
**Kagan 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald, Hillhouse Professor of History at Yale “Roles and Missions.” Orbis, Spring, Volume 41, 1997)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Few, if any, nations in … </span>__uphold the existing international structure.__

**b. Their Kritik/Heg bad args sanction genocide**
**Willis 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ellen, Professor of Journalism & Director of Concentraion in Cultural Reporting and Criticism at NYU, The Village Voice, 12-19-95)</span>
__If intellectuals are more inclined …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">resolving those "implacable ancient rivalries."</span>

**__Scenario 4 is Cooperation__**

**US Heg on SSA is key to NATO cooperation over SSA**
**ISAB 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Study on Space Policy: Report of the International Security Advisory Board. . Washington, D.C.: U.S. State Department, April 27, 2007]</span>
__Requirements to improve our own …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with allies and other nations.</span>

**That’s Key to Nato Deterrence**
**Single 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas Single, Major for USAF, Expert on Space, “Considerations for a NATO Space Policy”, European Space Policy Institute, 2008</span>
__The Alliance will maintain the … a top priority for the Alliance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Solves nuclear war**
**Brzezinski 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI, 2009, U.S. National Security Adviser from 1977 to 1981. His most recent book is Second Chance: Three Presidents and the Crisis of American Superpower, September 2009 - October 2009, (Foreign Affairs, SECTION: Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 5, HEADLINE: An Agenda for NATO Subtitle: Toward a Global Security Web, p. Lexis)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ADJUSTING TO A TRANSFORMED WORLD And … and the West more generally</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Miscalculation</span>=== 
**Miscalculation is inevitable in the status quo- data sharing exists, however opacity will overwhelm accuracy**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NSTAC 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[The President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf] </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Operators continuously and accurately track … resources or appropriately skilled technicians.</span>__

**Additionally, space debris is increasing – ASAT tests and lack of infrastructure**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">David 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Leonard, “Orbital Debris Cleanup Takes Center Stage,” October 7, http://www.space.com/7377-orbital-debris-cleanup-takes-center-stage.html] </span>
<span class="underline0">Active discussion is underway as … the value of space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Enhanced SSA solves miscalculation- tracking abilities creates distinctions between threats and non-threats**
**MacDonald 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce W, former assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as well as senior director for science and technology on the National Security Council staff, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security,” i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/China_Space_CSR38.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> SSA is the ability … </span>__effective retaliation or deterrence strategy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Miscalculation in space escalates to nuclear and biological warfare**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any clear-cut distinction between … </span><span style="background-color: lime;">destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Solvency</span>=== 
**The devil is in the details—while the Obama NSP commits itself to increases in SSA, these increases are underfunded and doomed to fail**
**Smith 6/17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marcia S. Smith is the founder and editor of SpacePolicyOnline.com and President of Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC. Previously she was Director of the Space Studies Board and of the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the U.S. National Research Council (2006-2009). Before that she was a specialist in aerospace and telecommunications policy at the Congressional Research Service (1975-2006), part of the U.S. Library of Congress, which provides objective, non-partisan research and analysis exclusively for the Members and committees of the U.S. Congress. She also was Executive Director of the U.S. National Commission on Space (1985-1986). “Impact of the Obama Space Policy One Year On -- Experts Say It’s All in the Implementation”, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1639:impact-of-the-obama-space-policy-one-year-on-experts-say-its-all-in-the-implementation-&catid=91:news&Itemid=84]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The upshot of the Secure … the "law of unintended consequences."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Current funding fails—it’s a question of integration**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chaplain 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Cristina T, Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]</span>
__Recent events, such as the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global Positioning System IIIA program.</span>

**A credible SSA system strengthens both military and civilian components of space- ensures communication and integration**
**Brown 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick A, Major, USAF Space Protection Program (Integration) “Promoting the Safe and Responsible Use of Space: Toward a 21st Century Transparency Framework,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, Num. 1, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf, Note: We Do Not Endorse Gendered Language] </span>
__Past proposals for international confidence … value and benefits are exponential__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span class="Underline">US SSA systems facilitates international cooperation and data sharing—infrastructure already in place</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Boltz and Owen 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard W and Zachary D, *Col, commander, 614th Air and Space Operations Center, and director, Joint Space Operations Center, the central node for the command and control of the Department of Defense’s space assets and Maj, chief of operations assessment, Strategy Division, 614th Air and Space Operations Center and the Joint Space Operations Center, “Steps Towards International Space Situational Awareness,” February, High Frontier Vol. 6, No. 2, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100226-085.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our assessment is that Mr. Johnson’s … </span>__a crucial component of international SSA.__



=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===Commissions=== 
**Text: The United States Congress should establish an independent commission to determine how to implement [INSERT MODIFIED PLAN TEXT]. The United States federal government should implement the recommendations.**

**Commissions solve the aff and avoids the link to politics**
**Glassman & Strauss 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Jacob R. Straus, Analysts on the Congress at the Congressional Research Services, “Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations”, http://www.wise-intern.org/orientation/documents/CRS%20commissions.pdf , February 2, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Solutions to policy problems produced … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">unpopular</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, but necessary, policy solutions</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.34</span>


===ORS Multiplank=== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of military launch infrastructure that allows for rapid reconstitution of military satellites, and small satellite development. The United States federal government should develop an integrated Space Situational Awareness sensor network beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. The United States federal should utilize full transparency regarding the development and deployment of its space capabilities. The United States federal government should sign a comprehensive treaty limiting the deployment of space weapons. The United States should increase China’s space infrastructure by increasing its data sharing.</span>**

**Solves the aff with no link to weaponization**
**<span style="color: #101010;">Putman, 9</span>**<span style="color: #101010; font-size: 8pt;">– USAF Major, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief, DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron</span><span style="color: #101010; font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event</span>

__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__has taken …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58</span>

====Weaponization Link Differential==== 
**Defensive measures are consistent with a code of conduct – but combining it with weaponization will destroy international support**

**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space

Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])



__Because the use of weapons …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">are both unwise and unnecessary.</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Synoptic Delusion K=== 
**Knowledge is fragmented and therefore attempts to use centralized planning rely on a synoptic delusion by oversimplifying a vast and unknowable body of information. Like a two-dimensional map for our three-dimensional world – the plan’s beauty and simplicity is possible only by stripping the world of its messy complexity and distorting its real shape to fit on a piece of paper.**
**Crowley, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Montreal Economic Institute, Montreal Economic Institute Paper, “The Man Who Changed Everyone’s Life: The Ubiquitous Ideas of F. A. Hayek (Conclusion),” 4-16-2001, www.iedm.org/library/crowlerB_en.html, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The synoptic delusion TO THE … study of a massive coordination challenge. </span>

**The affirmative relies on many problematic synoptic tools, turning to government to implement its vision of collective responsibility – this only papers over the inherent problems of government**
**Carson,** **81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Clarence B., specializes in American Intellectual History, The Freeman, “Reformer Watching,” vol. 31, no. 4, April, 1981, www.libertyhaven.com/politicsandcurrentevents/governmentreformitsrealrole/reformerwatching.html, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reformer watching will probably never … who may derive pleasure from it.</span>

**<span class="Author-Date">By allowing State institutions attempt to control space and define spaces they pave the way for how we know and see space</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span class="Author-Date">Foucault, 67 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michel Foucault ,1967, published by the French journal Architecture /Mouvement/ Continuité in October, 1984, “s (1967), Heterotopias” http://foucault.info/documents/heteroTopia/foucault.heteroTopia.en.html</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">despite all the … </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">speak now of external space.</span></span></span>

**The alternative is to reject the assumption that the government has the knowledge and power to effectively organize and manage the sociopolitical world. Failure to adopt the alternative will result in the death of civilization.**
**Rockwell,** **3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Llewellyn H. Jr., president of the Mises Institute, The Free Market, The Mises Institute Monthly, “The Hayek Moment,” May 2003, vol. 21, no.5, www.mises.org/freemarket_detail.asp?control=439&sortorder=articledate, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The relevance of Hayek in … </span>__fatal striving to control society."__

===Ocularcentrism K=== 
**The affirmative attempts to judge its problems solely on its sight, but this ocularcentric reliance on vision and light blinds from the true oppression and violence in the world**
**Taylor 06.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taylor, Chloi. "Hard, Dry Eyes and Eyes That Weep: Vision and Ethics in Levinas and Derrida." Postmodern Culture. University of Toronto, 2006. Web. 22 June 2011. <http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt>. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Returning to "Violence and Metaphysics," … </span>__the other__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ("Violence and Metaphysics" 130 [87]).</span>

**The blindness that accompanies our static vision causes violence, rage and inhumanity through the inability to face the victims of our actions**
**Taylor 06.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taylor, Chloi. "Hard, Dry Eyes and Eyes That Weep: Vision and Ethics in Levinas and Derrida." Postmodern Culture. University of Toronto, 2006. Web. 22 June 2011. <http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt>. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Michael Levin has repeatedly … </span>__of modern forms of violence.__

**Only by embracing a discourse that is not defined by a certain sensory line will we avoid marginalization and oppression**
**Hibbitts 1994** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bernard J. is a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, Making Sense of Metaphors Visuality, Aurality, and the Reconfigurations of Law, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/27642367/Making-sense-of-Metaphor-law-history-Bernard-J-Hibbitts]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here, one might offer several … </span>__to others, but to themselves.__

===Frontier K=== 
**Space is the final frontier – the affirmative’s unilateral expansion into space is a strategy to free the American empire of material constraints – this narrative justifies violent, infinite expansion through technology**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Williamson, 87</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ray, Office of Technology Assessment, United States Congress, “Outer Space as Frontier: Lessons for Today,” Western Folklore, October)</span>
<span class="Underline">Folklorists have a distinctive contribution to … </span>and ecocatastrophes in our future<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."7</span>

**They identify a type of “national insecurity” that has to be solved but rather it justifes genocide and state-initiated war in the name of the state**
**Béland ’07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Béland, Daniel, //Department of Sociology// University of Calgary, The Canadian Journal of Sociology, Volume 32, Number 3, Summer 2007, pp. 317-340 (Article) http://www.ces.fas.harvard.edu/publications/docs/pdfs/Beland.pdf VB</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before sketching a theoretical framework for … </span>__fully determine the political dynamic.__

**The impact is endless apocalypse in the name of security – it makes every war inevitable**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Burke 07</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Senior Lecturer in Politics and IR, University of New South Wales, Anthony, Theory & Event, 10.2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I see such </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a drive for</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> … commitments but their own substance'. </span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#_edn21|21]]</span>__

**Security rhetoric furthers the perpetual threat of destruction and justifies unending, state-sanctioned violence.**
**Coviello 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter Coviello, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, “Apocalypse From Now On”, 2000]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that … </span>__can scarcely be done without.__

**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable but efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions the possibility of our utter annhiliation. Instead seeking this impossible fantasy where we are able to suppress and control conflict— The Alternative is to reject the Affirmative’s security discourse and affirm difference. This will allow us the break out of the infinite cycle of violence that created their harms in the first place**
**Neocleous, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark Neocleous Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, 2008 “Critique of Security”]</span>
__The only way out of … enough to return the gift__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Fear of Death K=== 
**a. the aff’s ‘at risk attitude’ normalizes fear**
**furedi 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank Furedi (professor of Sociology at The university of Kent) 4 April 2007 <”The only thing we have to fear is the ‘culture of fear’ itself” [[http://frankfuredi.com/pdf/fearessay-20070404.pdf]]> Pg6-8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__the autonomisation of fear …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">today’s harsh regime of uncertainty.</span>

**b. the affirmative focus’s on managing feelings of fear in order to offset their damaging impact. they can’t solve because their intent is to factor us into their risk calculus in order to sway action by affirming what we should and should not fear. this action prevent focus on the source of the problem and only rejection solves**
**furedi 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank Furedi (professor of Sociology at The university of Kent) 4 April 2007 <”The only thing we have to fear is the ‘culture of fear’ itself” [[http://frankfuredi.com/pdf/fearessay-20070404.pdf]]> Pg 5</span>
__When we witness the autonomisation …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">further encouraged and culturally affirmed.</span>

**c. the scenario for nuclear escalation and war they imagine will always be prevented by deterrence. however, the <span class="highlight">fear</span> of nuclear war is used to justify a state security apparatus that freezes the social and maintains a system of perfect control.**
**baudrillard 81** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The apotheosis of simulation: </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-the whole world is satellized).</span>

**d. the true damage of nuclear weapons is not the war that could result, but in the <span class="highlight">fear</span> and mental destruction that <span class="highlight">fear</span> of them demands. instead of trying to avoid the catastrophe, we must embrace its simulation and break the mental chains of deterrence.**
**baudrillard 81** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because </span>__an explosion is always a **…**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Besides, therein lies terrorism's ambiguity.</span>

==Disadvantages== 
===Nuclear Tradeoff=== 
**a. transition to solar energy redirects capital investment from nuclear power crushing the industry**
**Farmer and Makhijani 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Members of the Santa Fe Institute and the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research (J. Doyne and Arjun, “A US Nuclear Future?,” Nature, 9/23/10)</span>

__The costs of nuclear power__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>__difficulties are political__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not technological.</span>

**b. that’s key to the Russian economy**
**Bukharin 04 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> member of the research staff at Princeton University's Center for Energy and Environmental Studies (Oleg, “Understanding Russia’s Uranium Enrichment Complex,” Science and Global Security, 1/24/04, http://www.ipfmlibrary.com/sgs12bukharin.pdf.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over a period of 50 years, the … significant importance to international security.</span>

**c. extinction**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Filger, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sheldon, correspondent for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” [[http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356]]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In Russia</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> historically, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">economic health … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

===Spending=== 

**US economy is slow but strong with the help of lessened spending**

**Rampell 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- (Catherine Rampell, Catherine Rampell writes about economics for The New York Times and was honored with an award from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers. She has also received the Weidenbaum Center Award for Evidence-Based Journalism and is a Gerald Loeb Award finalist, 1/27/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/28/business/economy/us-economy-grows-at-modest-2-8-percent-rate.html]]</span>

__The American economy__ __picked up a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a whopping annual rate of </span>__12.5 percent____.__


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Any space venture will require heavy spending</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Kaku</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Michio, 7/16/</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, (professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York, “The Cost of Space Exploration”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/16/apollo-moon-landing-anniversary-opinions-contributors-cost-money.html]], Accessed 1/5/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After all is said and … expensive as it always was.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Failure to stop spending will result in economic collapse**</span>

<span class="Underline">**ROE** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 – 18 –</span><span class="Underline">**11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">member of the Education and Workforce Committee. Representative from Tennessee [Phil Roe Cut, cap and balance: A fight toward fiscal responsibility [[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05/navy_plebes_scale_herndon_monu.html]]</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Monday, the United States … </span>collapse<span class="Underline"> in the long-term. </span>


**A U.S. economic collapse will destroy the global economy**

<span class="Author-Date">Mead 04 </span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Walter Russell, Foreign Policy,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> April 1, pg. Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, in the last 60 years, … . U.S. economic might is sticky power.</span>


**Global economic crisis causes war—__…__ account for global crises properly**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the answer to the … considered ancillary to those views.</span>


===Weaponization=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation**

**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details. </span>


**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**

**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive … </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of responsible space-faring nations.</span>


**--INSERT PLAN SPECIFIC LINK—**


**Extinction**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

===Politics - UGA=== 

<span class="Underline">**Obama political capital can get tax reform passed—multiple warrants assume their evidence**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Yellin 2/21**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jessica Yellin, CNN Chief White House Correspondent; “Obama to offer corporate tax plan”; February 21, 2012; [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/02/21/politics/obama-corporate-taxes/index.html?eref=rss_politics&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+rss%2Fcnn_allpolitics+%28RSS%3A+Politics%29]]) SV</span>

The Treasury Department will … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">statement to the Senate panel. </span>


**[Insert Link]**



**No Reform guarantees economic collapse and kills competitiveness**

**Engardio**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, P. (200</span>**9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">). CAN THE FUTURE BE BUILT IN AMERICA? (cover story). //BusinessWeek//, (4147), 46-51. Retrieved from EBSCO//host//.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: baseline;">From its headquarters in a modest … approach to developing a manufacturing base. </span>


**Economic collapse causes war**

**Harris and Burrows ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__a more dog-eat-dog world.__

==Strategies== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Big Lex w/ Joey Brett </span>=== 
(Note: I'm not this much of a K hack, but if you drop/mishandle it, I will devote my 2NC to it)
====Round 1-BMD==== 
Aff-BMD [Stuyvesant]
2NR-Fear of Death

====Round 3-BMD==== 
Aff-BMD [Stuyvesant]
2NR-Fear of Death

====Quarterfinals-SBMD==== 
Aff-SBMD [Bishop Guerten]
2NR-Fear of Death

====Semifinals-SPS==== 
Aff-SPS [Bronx]
2NR-Fear of Death

====Finals-SBMD==== 
Aff-SBMD [University of Chicago]
2NR-Code of Conduct, Weaponization

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Emory w/ Shaun Verma</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Strategy-Emory w/ Akash Gogate-Round 2-ORS]]Round 2-ORS</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff-ORS [Edina]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR-Commissions, Politics</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Strategy-Emory w/ Akash Gogate-Round 4-Asteroids]]Round 4-Asteroids</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff-Asteroids [Edina]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR-T Exploration</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Strategy-Emory w/ Akash Gogate-Round 5-ORS]]Round 5-ORS</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff-ORS [Pace]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR-Commissions, Politics</span>

===First Year (Novice) State w/ Jesse Livingston=== 
====Round 1-SPS==== 
Aff-SPS
2NR-Commissions, Politics

====Round 4-LSP==== 
Aff-LSP [Alpharetta]
2NR-Synoptic Delusion, Debris

====Round 5-SPS==== 
Aff-SPS [Westminster]
2NR-Synoptic Delusion

===UGA (Novice) w/ Meghana Nallajerla=== 
====Round 1-Asteroids==== 
Aff-Asteroids [GDS]
2NR-Commissions, Politics

====Round 4-LSP==== 
Aff-LSP [Alpharetta]
2NR-Lacan, Case

====Round 5-LSP==== 
Aff-LSP [Alpharetta]
2NR-Heidegger, Case

====Octofinals-SPS (Critical)==== 
Aff-SPS [Sequoyah]
2NR-Agamben

====Quarterfinals-SPS==== 
Aff-SPS [Westminster]
2NR-Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]