[[toc]]
Aff cites: [[mailto:dthibeau94@gmail.com|dthibeau94@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: [[mailto:connoro7168@gmail.com|connoro7168@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==RAMOS Aff== 
===Syria scenario (broken quarters state)=== 
**Russia’s also key to a peaceful resolution in Syria**
**Washington Post 1/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Post’s View , “Saving Syria requires Russia’s cooperation,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/saving-syria-requires-russias-cooperation/2012/01/30/gIQA40fYdQ_story.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Arab League plan is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… for the opposition should not be. </span>

**Causes escalating proxy wars**
**Erlanger 2/25**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Steven, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 8pt;">Paris bureau chief of the New York Times, “Syrian Conflict Poses the Risk of Wider Strife,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/26/world/middleeast/syrian-conflict-poses-risk-of-regional-strife.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the dead pile up … </span>__Israel__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is in there, too.” </span>

**Global nuclear war**
**Primakov 9** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of //Russia in Global Affairs//. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">in the Context of International Relations”] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The</span> __Middle East conflict is **…**__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

===1AC - Emory=== 
**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement.**
====False Alarms Advantage==== 


**Advantage one is false alarms**

**Russian early warning systems are failing making false alarms inevitable**
**Forden et al 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Geoffrey Forden, Pavel Podvig and Theodore A. Postol, “False alarm, nuclear danger,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://russianforces.org/podvig/2000/03/false_alarm_nuclear_danger.shtml]]</span>; Geoffrey Forden is an analyst in the National Security Division of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. He holds a Ph.D. in experimental high-energy physics, a field in which he has done research in the United States and Europe. Pavel Podvig is a researcher at the Center for Arms Control, Energy, and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. He graduated from the general and applied physics department there in 1988. Podvig has written about the politics of missile defenses, the future of Russian strategic forces, and the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. He is the editor of Russian Strategic Nuclear Weapons (IzdAT, Moscow, 1998). Theodore A. Postol has been professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, since 1989. Before that, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory as a research physicist, at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment as an analyst studying the MX missile, and at the Pentagon as the assistant for weapons technology to the chief of naval operations.</span>

Those satellites, known as Defense Support Program (DSP) satellites, … these signatures were observed in the radar data.

**Incomplete information will force Russia to retaliate**
**NTRC 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]</span>]</span>

The deficiencies in Russia’s E-W system create dangers for …whether to launch a retaliatory response.9

**Rapid escalation is inevitable – none of their defense assumes C3I vulnerability**
**Ford 10** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse: Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders,” http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]</span>

Yet this is not the end of the story, for sophisticated advocates of de-alerting measures do not … the kind of retaliatory strike it deemed necessary.33

**The reset doesn’t solve – lingering tensions and inevitable crises mean conflict is still possible**
**Arbatov and Dvorkin 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexei Arbatov, Scholar-in-Residence and Program Co-chair of Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Carnegie Moscow Center and head of the Center for International Security at the Institute for International Economy and International Relationships of the Russian Academy of Sciences; Vladimir Dvorkin, senior researcher at the Center for International Security at the Institute for World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences and former director of the Fourth Central Research Institute in Moscow, “Beyond Nuclear Deterrence: Transforming the U.S.–Russian Equation,”</span>
http://books.google.com/books?id=P0oFjYRgzNYC&pg=PA1&lpg=PA1&dq=%22Even+when+dramatic+changes+occur+in+the+political+relations+between+nuclear+states%22&source=bl&ots=8-1mTpd_C_&sig=tI9ALDjxH_qG5nRWfra6ZXDC1cg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OqCMT_nFOMSniAKP7f2gCA&ved=0CCEQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22Even%20when%20dramatic%20changes%20occur%20in%20the%20political%20relations%20between%20nuclear%20states%22&f=false
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

Even when dramatic changes occur in the … picture of global stability. We are to take it into account in our military planning.1

**The impact is extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]]</span>, 3/31/9 //GBS-JV] </span>

Since the end of the Cold War, many have … including perhaps our own, would become extinct.
====Cooperation Advantage==== 
**Advantage two is cooperation**
**Space cooperation is failing now**
**RADYUHIN 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Vladimir, Moscow correspondent of The Hindu, July 29, 2011, “Now begins the era of the Soyuz,” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece]</span>

The pooling of resources could … sees as a threat to its security, is likely to hamper cooperation in the development of new space hardware.

**Cooperation is key to relations and prevents a space arms race**
**Savelyev 04**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]]</span> NEH)</span>

Space, for many very understandable reasons…of developing a positive strategy for space exploration.

**That causes global WMD conflict**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions …destructive military conflict ever seen.

**It’s reverse causal – failure to cooperate undermines overall relations**
**__Logsdon and Millar 01__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, __<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]]</span>__ DH) </span>

Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else, … at least giving them a psychological fig leaf."

**Relations are key to effective international cooperation**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]]</span>,)</span>

A year and a half after … refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.

**That solves nuclear war and global instability**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fareed </span>**Zakaria**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/</span>**08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249</span>

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying … will flounder and perhaps reverse.


**Independently, Russian cooperation salvages climate talks and prevents rapid warming**
**__Charap et al 9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Samuel Charap, Fellow in National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Laura Conley, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Peter Juul, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress; Andrew Light, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress specializing in climate, energy, and science policy; Julian L. Wong, Senior Policy Analyst with the Energy Opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, July 2009, “After the “Reset”: A strategy and new agenda for U.S. Russia policy”]</span>

Enhancing cooperation on energy efficiency and climate … finger-wagging approach will only backfire in the Russian context.

**Extinction**
**__Costello 11__**__,__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a … making many environments uninhabitable.

**Greenhouse effect proves warming**
**Braganza 6/14/11** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, AM)</span>
In public discussions of climate change, the full range and weight of evidence … greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable

**Recent observations prove**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">1n</span> early <span style="text-decoration: none;">2007</span>, at the time of the publication of WG1 of AR4… reaching near zero well within this century.
====**Solvency**==== 
**Contention three is solvency**
**In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest**
**Samson 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]</span>

When the Missile defense … be able to get moving in this area."52

**Reviving the program creates a mechanism for shared early warning and prevents miscalc**
**Ford 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]</span>]</span>

The idea of improved mutual transparency as a …actually be implemented in the future.

**Ramos tech allows Russia to repair its early warning**
**Forden 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]</span>

U.S. assistance to Russia’s future … chance to improve its own long-term security.

**RAMOS overcomes mistrust and spills over to further space cooperation**
**Glass 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]</span>

In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed congressional staffers that … changes to program plans and objectives illustrates why.

**Russia supports the original agreement in which each country builds its own satellite – any other approach requires re-negotiation which empirically causes massive delay and program collapse**
**Glass 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The original RAMOS concept called for each country to develop its own …summer if a new government-to-government agreement is not signed in the near future.</span>

**Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities**
**Humpherys et al 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf</span>

RAMOS is a unique program in many ways. … evolution and potential impact on human health and safety.

**RAMOS technology is key**
**Bartschi et al. 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]]</span>, Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]</span>

ENVIRONMENTAL--- RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility … distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.
Disasters cause extinction
SID-AHMED 05 Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The extinction of the species has become a very real possibility, whether by our own hand or asa result of natural disasters of a much greater magnitude than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, exposing planet Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life. Today, human conflicts have become less of a threat than the confrontation between [Humanity] Man and Nature. At least they are less likely to bring about the end of the human species. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the devastatingearthquake and tsunamis that hit the coastal regions of South Asia and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion that the extinction of the human race will not occur before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

Solves extinction from disease
Ford et. al 11 (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]])

The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26).

Original agreement key – anything else forces renegotiation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In his letter of July 14, 2000 to his Russian counterpart, Dr. Mikhailov, State-Secretary, First Minister of Defense, Dr. Gansler stated the need to "underpin this (revised) program with a government-to-government agreement to underscore the commitment of both our governments to the program and outline our specific roles." BMDO officials have interpreted Dr. Gansler's words to mean that a new government-to-government agreement is required before the program could resume at full throttle. Consequently, BMDO officials determined that the release of Congressionally-authorized and appropriated funding for RAMOS should be withheld pending a new agreement. Of $30 million appropriated to fund Russian participation in the program for FY 2002, MDA has released only $2 million thus far this year.
While BMDO withholds critical funding for the program, the Russian side wrestles with the nature and the form of a new government-to-government agreement. During meetings in Moscow between members of the Russian RAMOS team and representatives of the Center for Defense Information (CDI), Russian scientists and officials in the Ministries of Defense and Foreign Affairs stated their view that the government-to-government agreement reached between Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin for the initial two-satellite RAMOS program still pertained despite the adjustments proposed by Gansler in July 2000. BMDO officials, however, have taken the view that those adjustments are sufficiently significant that a new agreement is warranted.

Causes delay and rollback
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span class="Underline">Given the disparity in viewpoints on this crucial issue, it is likely to take a significant amount of time for US and Russian officials to negotiate detailed terms of a new government-to-government agreement. Meantime, MDA could effectively kill the program by withholding funds the program needs to continue. During CDI's recent meetings with US and Russian program contract personnel, both sides indicated that the technical teams that have been working side by side on the program for a number of years will soon be dissolved if funding is not made available in coming weeks. The cooperation and trust built among Russian and American technical personnel could soon be lost if the teams are disassembled. Aside from the issue of funding availability, Congressional staff familiar with the program have indicated to CDI that MDA intends to formally discontinue the program this summer if a new government-to-government agreement is not signed in the near future.</span>

===1AC - New Trier Quarters=== 
Contention one is impacts
Space arms racing causes global WMD warfare
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

Diplomacy solves nuclear war and global instability
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Fareed </span>Zakaria<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/</span>08<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The "</span>__Global Trends" report identifies …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__will flounder and perhaps reverse__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Warming is real and causes extinction – cutting CO2 solves
<span class="Underline">Costello 11, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Advocacy about the health consequences … </span><span class="Underline">, therefore </span>making<span class="Underline"> many </span>environments uninhabitable<span class="Underline">. </span>

Nuke war with Russia escalates within minutes and wipes out the species
Helfand and Pastore ‘9 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 //GBS-JV] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since the end of the … </span>__our own, would become extinc__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">t</span>.

Contention 2 is cooperation

Current space cooperation with Russia is limited by mistrust and lack of engagement
RADYUHIN 11 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Vladimir__,__ Moscow correspondent of … .com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece__]__</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Once the Cold War ended, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">development of new space hardware.</span>

Increasing US-Russia defense cooperation in space is key to prevent an arms race – spills over to broader cooperation
Savelyev 04, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]] NEH)</span>

__Space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, for many very understandable … </span>__a positive strategy for space exploration.__

Robust military space cooperation is necessary for all other cooperation
<span class="Underline">Logsdon and Millar 01</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Yet, to one participant, "If … </span>giving them a psychological fig leaf<span class="Underline">."</span>

Cooperation is key to effective multilateralism – now is key
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)</span>

A __year and a half after__ … barriers to investment or trade.

Cooperation also solves warming
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">4. </span>__Russia's environment matters__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. As … of freshwater than continental Europe.</span>


Contention 3 is accidental war

Russian early warning systems are failing – this makes false alarms inevitable
Forden et al 2K<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Geoffrey Forden, Pavel Podvig and Theodore A. Postol, “False alarm, nuclear danger,” [[http://russianforces.org/podvig/2000/03/false_alarm_nuclear_danger.shtml]]; Geoffrey Forden is an analyst in the National Security Division of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. He holds a Ph.D. in experimental high-energy physics, a field in which he has done research in the United States and Europe. Pavel Podvig is a researcher at the Center for Arms Control, Energy, and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. He graduated from the general and applied physics department there in 1988. Podvig has written about the politics of missile defenses, the future of Russian strategic forces, and the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. He is the editor of Russian Strategic Nuclear Weapons (IzdAT, Moscow, 1998). Theodore A. Postol has been professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, since 1989. Before that, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory as a research physicist, at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment as an analyst studying the MX missile, and at the Pentagon as the assistant for weapons technology to the chief of naval operations.</span>

<span class="Underline">Those </span>satellites<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, known as Defense … </span><span class="Underline">observed in the radar data.</span>

The lack of reliable early warning data makes a mistaken launch inevitable
NTRC 5<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” [[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>deficiencies in Russia’s <span class="Underline">E-W </span>system … whether to launch<span class="Underline"> a retaliatory response.9</span>

The risk of a launch is high
Martin 8<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Matt, program officer in Policy Analysis and Dialogue at the Muscatine-based Stanley Foundation, “Avoiding an Accidental Nuclear War,” http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?ID=498]</span>

<span class="Underline">Under the best of circumstances</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … avoid an accidental nuclear war.</span>

The US would retaliate immediately
Blair 4<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bruce PhD in Operations Research and President of the World Security Institute, Former President of Military Strategy @ Princeton. “Keeping Presidents in the Nuclear Dark (Episode #2: The SIOP Option that Wasn’t)” [[http://www.cdi.org/blair/launch-on-warning.cfm]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What is misleading about the … </span>__sitting ducksfor very long.__

Contention 4 is solvency

In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest
Samson 7 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]</span>

__When the M____issile defense Agency …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">get moving in this area."52</span>

Committing to the program could revive cooperation – that fosters transparency that prevents miscalculation
Ford 8<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” [[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>idea of improved<span class="Underline"> mutual </span>… be implemented <span class="Underline">in the future.</span>

RAMOS technology would allow Russia to repair its early warning system
Forden 1 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. assistance to Russia’s future … its own long-term security.</span>

RAMOS establishes groundwork for space cooperation with Russia – a stable US commitment is key to overcome mistrust
Glass 2<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed … plans and objectives illustrates why.</span>

Committing to stable funding is key – solves relations and accidental war
Glass 2<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In his letter of July 14, 2000 … program becomes and remains "cooperative".</span>

Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities
Humpherys et al 4 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf</span>

__RAMOS is a unique program__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in … on human health and safety.</span>

Thus the plan: the United States federal government should fund the Russian American Observation Satellite program.
===1AC - University of Michigan=== 
SAME AS ABOVE +

RAMOS technology is key
Bartschi et al. 98 [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” [[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]], Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ENVIRONMENTAL--- </span><span class="Underline">RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">oil spills, etc. </span>to help develop multispectral algorithms for large-area, distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.
===Plan Texts=== 

Thus the plan: the United States federal government should fund the Russian American Observation Satellite program.

Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement.

Plan: the United States federal government should carry out its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement.
==Asteroids Aff== 

===1AC - Greenhill, Niles West, New Trier=== 
Inherency
Contention 1 is Inherency

Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered
<span style="text-decoration: none;">NRC</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">10 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs coming toward Earth from near the Sun’s direction </span>because their close proximity to the Sun—as viewed from Earth—causes sunlight scattered by Earth’s atmosphere to be a problem and also poses risks to the telescopes when they point toward these directions. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Objects remaining in those directions have orbits largely interior to Earth’s; the understanding of their number is</span> as yet <span style="text-decoration: none;">very uncertain</span>. In addition, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are objects that remain too far from Earth to be detected almost all of the time</span>. The latter include Earth-approaching comets (comets with orbits that approach the Sun at distances less than 1.3 astronomical units [AU] and have periods less than 200 years), of which 151 are currently known. These represent a class of objects probably doomed to be perpetually only partly known, as they are not likely to be detected in advance of a close Earth encounter. These objects, after the completion of exhaustive searches for NEOs, could dominate the impact threat to humanity. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Thus, assessing the completeness of the NEO surveys is subject to uncertainties: Some groups of NEOs are particularly difficult to detect. Asteroids and comets are continually lost from the NEO population because they impact the Sun or a planet, or because they are ejected from the solar system. Some asteroids have collisions that change their sizes or orbits. New objects are introduced into the NEO population from more distant reservoirs</span> over hundreds of thousands to millions of years. The <span style="text-decoration: none;">undiscovered NEOs could include large objects</span> like 2009 HC82 as well as objects <span style="text-decoration: none;">that will be discovered only months or less before Earth impact</span> (“imminent impactors”). <span style="text-decoration: none;">Hence, even though 85 percent of NEOs larger than 1 kilometer in diameter might already have been discovered</span>, and eventually more than 90 percent of NEOs larger than 140 meters in diameter will be discovered, <span style="text-decoration: none;">NEO surveys should nevertheless continue, because objects not yet discovered pose a statistical risk: Humanity must be constantly vigilant</span>. Finding: Despite progress toward or completion of any survey of near-Earth objects, it is impossible to identify all of these objects because objects’ orbits can change, for example due to collisions. Recommendation: Once a near-Earth object survey has reached its mandated goal, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the search for NEOs should not stop. Searching should continue to identify as many of the remaining objects and objects newly injected into the NEO population as possible</span>, especially imminent impactors.

Despite these failures feasible solutions exist—this outweighs all other impacts
<span style="text-decoration: none;">POLYCAPITALIST</span> 10-28-20<span style="text-decoration: none;">10 (I am an independent investor with private sector experience in investment banking, strategy consulting and venture capital. I have worked with both multinationals and startups, and I have served on the board of directors of both publicly traded and private companies. My academic training consists of graduate/postgraduate studies in accounting, finance and economic history. “Cheap Insurance Against the Ultimate Black Swan,” http://seekingalpha.com/instablog/489997-the-polycapitalist/105674-cheap-insurance-against-the-ultimate-black-swan)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">I thought it could be a nice, light distraction to write about the greatest known threat to life on earth. What is it? Global warming, infectious disease, and thermonuclear war are some of the more common answers to this question. However, there is another threat of perhaps even greater danger which doesn't receive nearly as much airtime, or resources devoted to its prevention. Former astronaut Russell Schweickart recently penned a NY Times piece on the very real risks posed by asteroids to life on earth. I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Schweickart several years ago, and he is generally considered the leading advocate for increasing awareness and addressing this threat. Asteroids -- as any T-Rex fan will attest -- can be absolutely devastating. Strong scientific evidence suggests that 65 million years ago an asteroid of approximately seven to eight miles in diameter struck near Mexico and wiped out the dinosaurs and over half of all species. It doesn't take an eight mile asteroid to cause significant damage. The 'Tunguska event', which featured an asteroid with a diamater of only 120 feet, leveled approximately 800 square miles of (thankfully) relatively empty Siberian forest. An asteroid much smaller than Tunguska could hit a heavily populated area and cause a loss of life in the millions. Can Anything Be Done? There is some good news. We already possess the technical knowledge to prevent asteroid impact. We can detect asteroids that may collide with earth, sometimes up to a decade in advance of potential impact. We also know what to do once we've spotted one that's on a collision course with our planet. One option can be described simply as using a spacecraft to "rear-end" the asteroid. This alters the asteroid's trajectory away from earth. The bad news is that we are not investing the relative pittance it would take to mitigate asteroid impact risk. Schweickart estimates that it would cost roughly $250-$300 million over the next 10 years to track all asteroids and fully develop the deflection capability. Annual maintenance expense for the program would be $50-$75 million. These figures represent a small fraction of the U.S. federal budget. So, the choice is pretty clear. We can either spend a few hundred millions dollars and mitigate asteroid risk. Or we can continue to roll the dice risking perhaps all life on earth.</span>

Asteroid deflection attempts are inevitable but they will fail without early warning
NRC 2010 (<span style="text-decoration: none;">National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
In contrast to other known natural hazards, there has been no significant loss of human life to impacts in historical times, due to the low frequency of major impacts and the higher probability of impact in unpopulated areas (notably the oceans) rather than in populated regions. Unlike the other hazards listed in Table 2.2, the hazard statistics for NEOs are dominated by single events with potentially high fatalities separated by long time intervals. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Should scientists identify a large</span> life-threatening <span style="text-decoration: none;">object on a collision course with Earth, tremendous public resources to mitigate the risk would almost certainly be brought to bear. However, options for effective mitigation become much more limited when threatening objects are identified with only months to years, rather than decades or centuries, before impact. Thus, one of the greatest elements of risk associated with NEOs is the public’s expectation that governments will provide protection against any threat from NEOs, even as governments and agencies have been unwilling so far to expend public funds in a concerted effort to identify, catalog, and characterize as many potentially dangerous NEOs as possible, as far in advance of a damaging impact event as feasible</span>.

Adv 1
Contention 2 is Asteroid Collisions

Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time
<span style="text-decoration: none;">VERSCHUUR</span> 19<span style="text-decoration: none;">96</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)
In the past few years, the comet impact scenario has taken on a life of its own and the danger of asteroids has been added to the comet count. In the context of heightened interest in the threat, <span style="text-decoration: none;">reassuring predictions have been offered about the likelihood of</span> a civilization-destroying <span style="text-decoration: none;">impact</span> in the years to come. Without exception, the <span style="text-decoration: none;">scientists who have recently offered odds have been careful in making any statement</span>. They have acted in a "responsible" manner and left us with a feeling that the threat is not worth worrying about. This is not to criticize their earnest efforts, only to point out that estimates have been attempted for centuries. The way I look at the business of offering odds is that <span style="text-decoration: none;">it hardly matters whether the chance of being wiped out next century is 1 in 10,000</span>, for example, or that the likelihood of a civilization-destroying impact is once in a million years. <span style="text-decoration: none;">That's like betting on a horse race. The only thing that is certain is that a horse will win. What matters is the larger picture that begins to force itself into our imagination; comet or asteroid impacts are inevitable</span>. The next one may not wipe us out in the coming century, or even in the century after that, but <span style="text-decoration: none;">sooner or later it will happen. It could happen next year</span>. I think that what matters is how we react to this knowledge. That, in the long run, is what will make a difference to our planet and its inhabitants. It is not the impact itself that may be immediately relevant; it is how we react to the idea of an impact that may change the course of human history. I am afraid that <span style="text-decoration: none;">we will deal with this potentially mind-expanding discovery in the way we deal with most issues that relate to matters of great consequence; we will ignore it until the crisis is upon us. The problem may be that the consequences of a comet catastrophe are so horrendous that it is easiest to confront it through denial. In the end, though, it may be this limitation of human nature that will determine our fate</span>.

The impact is extinction
<span style="text-decoration: none;">McGUIRE</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">02</span> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened <span style="text-decoration: none;">off the coast of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula</span> 65 million years earlier. Here <span style="text-decoration: none;">a 10-kilometre asteroid</span> or comet—its exact nature is uncertain—crashed into the sea and <span style="text-decoration: none;">changed our world forever. Within microseconds, an unimaginable explosion released as much energy as billions of Hiroshima bombs detonated simultaneously, creating a titanic fireball hotter than the Sun that vaporized the ocean</span> and excavated a crater 180 kilometres across in the crust beneath. Shock waves blasted upwards, <span style="text-decoration: none;">tearing the atmosphere apart and expelling over a hundred trillion tonnes of molten rock into space, later to fall across the globe</span>. Almost <span style="text-decoration: none;">immediatelyan area bigger than Europe would have been</span> flattened and <span style="text-decoration: none;">scoured of</span> virtually <span style="text-decoration: none;">all life</span>, while massive earthquakes rocked the planet. The atmosphere would have howled and screamed as <span style="text-decoration: none;">hypercanes five times more powerful than the strongest hurricane ripped the landscape apart</span>, joining forces with huge tsunamis to batter coastlines many thousandsof kilometres distant. Even worse was to follow. As the rock blasted into space began to rain down across the entire planet so the <span style="text-decoration: none;">heat</span> generated by its re-entry into the atmosphere <span style="text-decoration: none;">irradiated the surface, roasting animals alive as effectively as an oven</span> grill, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and starting great conflagrations that laid waste the world's forests and grasslands and turned fully a quarter of all living material to ashes</span>. Even once the atmosphere and oceans had settled down, the crust had stopped shuddering, and the bombardment of debris from space had ceased, more was to come. In the following weeks, <span style="text-decoration: none;">smoke and dust in the atmosphere blotted out the Sun and brought temperatures plunging</span> by as much as 15 degrees Celsius. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In the growing gloom and bitter cold the surviving plant life</span> wilted and <span style="text-decoration: none;">died</span> while those herbivorous dinosaurs that remained slowly starved. <span style="text-decoration: none;">global wildfires and acid rain</span> from the huge quantities of sulphur injected into the atmosphere from rocks at the site of the impact <span style="text-decoration: none;">poured into the oceans, wiping out three-quarters of all marine life. After years of freezing conditions the gloom</span> following the so-called Chicxulub impact would eventually have <span style="text-decoration: none;">lifted, only to reveal a terrible Sun blazing through the tatters of an ozone layer torn apart by the chemical action of nitrous oxides</span> concocted in the impact fireball: <span style="text-decoration: none;">an ultraviolet spring hard on the heels of the cosmic winter that fried many of the remaining species</span> struggling precariously to hang on to life. So enormously was the natural balance of the Earth upset that according to some it might have taken hundreds of thousands of years for the post-Chicxulub Earth to return to what passes for normal. When it did the age of the great reptiles was finally over, leaving the field to the primitive mammals—our distant ancestors—and opening an evolutionary trail that culminated in the rise and rise of the human race. But could we go the same way1?To assess the chances, let me look a little more closely at the destructive power of an impact event. At Tunguska, destruction of the forests resulted partly from the great heat generated by the explosion, but mainly from the blast wave that literally pushed the trees over and flattened them against the ground. The strength of this blast wave depends upon what is called the peak overpressure, that is the difference between ambient pressure and the pressure of the blastwave. In order to cause severe destruction thisnccds to exceed 4. pounds per square inch, an overpressure that results in wind speeds that arc over twice the force of those found in a typical hurricane. Even though tiny compared with, say, the land area of London, the enormous overpressures generated by a 50-metre object exploding low overhead would cause damage comparable with the detonation of a very large nuclear device, obliterating almost everything within the city's orbital motorway. Increase the size of the impactor and things get very much worse. An asteroid just 250 metres across would be sufficiently massive to penetrate the atmosphere; blasting a crater 5 kilometres across and devastating an area of around 10,000 square kilometres— that is about the size of the English county of Kent. Raise the size of the asteroid again, to 650 metres, and the area of devastation increases to ioo;ooo square kilometres—about the size of the US state of South Carolina. Terrible as this all sounds, however, even this would be insufficient to affect the entire planet. In order to do this, an impactor has to be at least 1 kilometre across, if it is one of the speedier comets, or 1.5 kilometres in diameter if it is one of the slower asteroids. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A collision</span> with one of these objects <span style="text-decoration: none;">would generate a blast equivalent to 100,000 million tonnes of TNT</span>, which would obliterate an area 500 kilometres across say the size of England—and kill perhaps tens of millions of people, depending upon the location of the impact. The real problems for the rest of the world would start soon after as dust in the atmosphere began to darken the skies and reduce the level of sunlight reaching the Earth's surface. By comparison with the huge Chicxulub impact it is certain that this would result in a dramatic lowering of global temperatures but there is no consensus on just how bad this would be. The chances are, however, that an impact of this size would result in appalling weather conditions and crop failures at least as severe as those of the 'Year Without a Summer'; 'which followed the 1815 eruption of Indonesia's Tambora volcano. As mentioned in the last chapter, <span style="text-decoration: none;">with even developed countries holding sufficient food to feed their populations for only a month</span> or so, <span style="text-decoration: none;">large-scale crop failures across the planet would undoubtedly have serious implications</span>. Rationing, at the very least, is likely to be die result, with a worst case scenario seeing <span style="text-decoration: none;">widespread disruption of the social and economic fabric</span> of developed nations. In the developing world, where subsistence farming remains very much the norm, <span style="text-decoration: none;">wide-spread failure of the harvests could be expected to translate rapidly into famine on a biblical scale</span> Some researchers forecast that as many as <span style="text-decoration: none;">a quarter of the world's population could succumb</span> to a deteriorating climate <span style="text-decoration: none;">following an impact in the 1</span>—1.5 <span style="text-decoration: none;">kilometre size range. Anything bigger and photosynthesis stops completely. Once this happens the issue is not how many people will die but whether the human race will survive</span>. One estimate proposes that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the impact of an object just 4- kilometres across will inject sufficient quantities of dust and debris into the atmosphere to reduce light levels below those required for photosynthesis</span>. Because we still don't know how many threatening objects there are out there nor whether they come in bursts, it is almost impossible to say when the Earth will be struck by an asteroid or comet that will bring to an end the world as we know it. Impact events on the scale of the Chicxulub dinosaur-killer only occur every several tens of millions of years, so in any single year the chances of such an impact arc tiny. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Any optimism is</span>, however, <span style="text-decoration: none;">tempered by the fact that</span>— should the Shiva hypothesis be true—<span style="text-decoration: none;">the next swarm of Oort Cloud comets could even now be speeding towards the inner solar system</span>. Failing this, we may have only another thousand years to wait until the return of the dense part of the Taurid Complex and another asteroidal assault. Even if it turns out that there is no coherence in the timing of impact events, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there is</span> statistically <span style="text-decoration: none;">no reason why we cannot be hit next year by an undiscovered Earth-Crossing Asteroid or by a long-period comet that has never before visited the inner solar system</span>. Small impactors on the Tunguska scale struck Brazil in 1931 and Greenland in 1097, and will continue to pound the Earth every few decades. Because their destructive footprint is tiny compared to the surface area of the Earth, however, it would be very bad luck if one of these hit an urban area, and most will fall in the sea. Although this might seem a good thing, a larger object striking the ocean would be very bad news indeed. A 500-metre rock landing in the Pacific Basin, for example, would generate gigantic tsunamis that would obliterate just about every coastal city in the hemisphere within 20 hours or so. The chances of this happening arc actually quite high—about 1 per cent in the next 100 years—and the death toll could well top half a billion. Estimates of the frequencies of impacts in the 1 kilometre size bracket range from 100,000 to 333,000 years, but the youngest impact crater produced by an object of this size is almost a million years old. Of course, there could have been several large impacts since, which cither occurred in the sea or have not yet been located on land. Fair enough you might say, the threat is clearly out there, but <span style="text-decoration: none;">is there anything on the horizon? Actually, there is</span>. Some <span style="text-decoration: none;">13 asteroids</span>—mostly quite small—<span style="text-decoration: none;">could</span> feasibly <span style="text-decoration: none;">collide with the Earth before 2100.</span> Realistically, however, this is not very likely as the probabilities involved arc not much greater than 1 in io;ooo— although bear in mind that these arc pretty good odds. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If this was the probability of winning the lottery then my local agent would be getting considerably more</span> of my <span style="text-decoration: none;">business</span>. There is another enigmatic object out there, however. Of the 40 or so Near Earth Asteroids spotted last year, one — designated 2000SG344—looked at first as if it might actually hit us. The object is small, in the 100 metre size range, and its orbit is so similar to the earth that some have suggested it may be a booster rocket that sped one of the Apollo spacecraft on its way to the Moon. Whether hunk of rock or lump of man-made metal, it was originally estimated that 2000SG344 had a 1 in 500 chance of striking the Earth on 21 September 2030. Again, these may sound very long odds, but they are actually only five times greater than those recently offered during summer 2001 for England beating Germany 5-1 at football. We can all relax now anyway, as recent calculations have indicated that the object will not approach closer to the Earth than around five million kilometres. A few years ago, scientists came up with an index to measure the impact threat, known as the Torino Scale, and so far 2000SG2144 is the first object to register a value greater than zero. The potential impactor originally scraped into category 1, events meriting careful monitoring. Let's hope that many years elapse before we encounter the first category 10 event—defined as 'a certain collision with global consequences'. Given sufficient warning we might be able to nudge an asteroid out of the Earth's way but due to its size, high velocity, and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction.

No impact can outweigh this—nothing else threatens extinction
<span style="text-decoration: none;">McGUIRE</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">02 </span>(Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)
Probably the only piece of good news that can be taken away from my brief look at the end of the world as we know it is that although this is going to happen — and soon—<span style="text-decoration: none;">the survival of our race seems to be assured</span>, for now at least. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Leaving aside the possibility of a major comet or asteroid impact</span> on a scale of the dinosaur-killer 65 million years ago— which only happen every few hundred million years—<span style="text-decoration: none;">it is highly unlikely that anything else is going to wipe out every single last one of us</span>—all 6 billion plus—<span style="text-decoration: none;">in the foreseeable future. Even</span> the replacement of the world with which we have become so familiar with one of <span style="text-decoration: none;">sweltering heat or bitter cold might not seem as scary for</span> those of <span style="text-decoration: none;">our descendants</span> likely to be in the thick of things. After all, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we are a remarkably adaptable species, and can change to match new circumstances</span> with some aplomb. Familiar 'worlds' have certainly ended many times before, as no doubt a centenarian born and raised while Queen Victoria sat on the throne of the United Kingdom, and who lived to sec man land on the moon, would testify. The danger is, however, that the world of our children and those that follow will be a world of struggle and strife with little prospect of, and perhaps little enthusiasm for, progress as the Victorians viewed it. Indeed, it would not be entirely surprising if, at some future time, as the great coastal cities sink beneath the waves or below sheets of ice, the general consensus did not hold that there had been quite enough progress thank you—at least for a while. While I have tried in these pages to extrapolate current trends and ideas to tease out and examine somewhat depressing scenarios for the future of our planet and our race, I am sure that, to some extent at least, you would be justified in accusing me of a failure of the imagination. After all, I have rarely looked ahead beyond a few tens of thousands of years, and yet our Sun will still be bathing our planet in its life-giving warmth for another 5 billion years or more. Who knows, over that incomprehensible length of time, what Homo sapiens and the species that evolve from us will do and become. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Our species</span> and those that follow <span style="text-decoration: none;">may be knocked back time and time again in the short term, but</span> provided we learn to nurture our environment rather than exploit it, both here on Earth—before the Sun eventually swallows it up—and later, perhaps, in the solar system and the galaxy and beyond, then <span style="text-decoration: none;">we have the time to do and be almost anything</span>. Maybe now is the right time to start.

Our evidence is comparative—war, environmental destruction, terrorism, and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact
<span style="text-decoration: none;">STEEL 2002 - Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 93)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Cancer Metaphor: Why facing up to hazardous asteroids and comets is like dealing with cancer: (1) Early identification is vital Most cancers need to be picked up very early in their development if they are to be treatable. So it is with NEOs. We have no time to lose in identifying any potential Earth impactor: there is no phony war with these objects. (2) Cancer screening (and NEO surveillance) is cheap The cost of screening is smaller than the cost of treatment, and much less than the cost of doing nothing. (3) Everyone can be involved in some way Self-inspection (e.g. for breast, skin or testicular cancer) is simple; but a corollary is that detailed investigations (e.g. for brain tumours) are expensive. Similarly amateur astronomers can provide vital help, although in the end the professionals will need to tackle the job. (4) Identification of a real problem is unlikely Individuals are unlikely to contract specific cancers for which screening is done, but we must aim to check everyone periodically. In the same way we need to seek out all NEOs, and keep tabs on them. (5) False alarms are common Any indicator of a potential problem necessitates careful monitoring, and causes considerable worry. But one should be pleased when the tumour proves benign. Precisely the same applies to NEOs: asteroids and comets discovered and initially flagged to be potential impactors but later shown to be sure to miss our planet represent victories on our part. (6) Tackling any confirmed cancer (NEO impact) is certain to be unpleasant No-one suggests that chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgical intervention are fun, but they are necessary, as would be the steps employed to divert an NEO, such as the nuclear option. Nor would they be cheap: but the cost would be of no consequence, as with a serious cancer. (7) Just because we don't yet know the cure for cancer does not mean that we should give up looking and trying. Where there is life, there is hope. If we should find an NEO destined by the clockwork of the heavens to impact the Earth in the near future (within the next few decades to a century, say), and using our advanced science and technology we manage to divert it and so save ourselves, this will rank as perhaps the greatest achievement of modern-day civilisation. (8) Just because there are more significant problems facing the world does not mean that we should ignore this one. Having a bad cold or influenza does not mean that you should neglect to have the lump in your breast or the suspicious, dark skin blemish on your neck checked out. Another viewpoint would be that if there is a substantial NEO due to strike our planetary home soon, then we face no greater problem: not terrestrial disasters, not terrorism, not wars, not disease, not global warming, not unemployment nor economic downturns. The most likely result of a proper study of the impact hazard is that it will go away, because we will find that no impact is due within the foreseeable future. But the converse is also true: what we now see as a slim chance (low probability of a large impact) may turn into a virtual certainty, which would then supplant our Earthly concerns. (9) Just because we don't yet know a cure for the common cold does not mean that we cannot find the solution for this disease. Some of the greatest dangers we face on a daily basis have quite simple solutions, like imposing speed limits to cut down road fatalities. Conceptually, planetary defense against NEO impact is a far simpler problem than, say, trying to stop major earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, or halting a hurricane in its path.</span>

Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)
I have argued [59] that <span style="text-decoration: none;">impacts must be exceptionally more lethal globally than any other proposed terrestrial causes for mass extinctions because</span> of two unique features: (a) <span style="text-decoration: none;">their environmental effects happen essentially instantaneously</span> (on timescales of hours to months, during which species have little time to evolve or migrate to protective locations) <span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span> (b) <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are compound environmental consequences (e.</span>g., broiler-like skies as ejecta re-enter the atmosphere, global firestorm, ozone layer destroyed, earthquakes and tsunami, months of ensuing “impact winter”, centuries of global warming, poisoning of the oceans). <span style="text-decoration: none;">Not only the rapidity of changes, but also the cumulative and synergistic consequences of the compound effects, make asteroid impact overwhelmingly more difficult for species to survive than alternative crises. Volcanism, sea regressions, and even sudden effects of hypothesized collapses of continental shelves or polar ice caps are far less abrupt than the immediate (within a couple of hours) worldwide consequences of impact</span>; lifeforms have much better opportunities in longer-duration scenarios to hide, migrate, or evolve. The alternatives also lack the diverse, compounding negative global effects. Only the artificial horror of global nuclear war or the consequences of a very remote possibility of a stellar explosion near the Sun could compete with impacts for immediate, species-threatening changes to Earth's ecosystem. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Therefore, since the NEA impacts inevitably happened, it is plausible that they—and chiefly they alone—caused the mass extinctions in Earth's history (as hypothesized by Raup [60]), even though proof is lacking for specific extinctions. What other process could possibly be so effective? And even if one or more extinctions do have other causes, the largest asteroid/comet impacts during the Phanerozoic cannot avoid having left traces in the fossil record.</span>

Evacuation would do nothing
<span style="text-decoration: none;">LEWIS 1996 - professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory (John S., Rain of Iron and Ice, p. 183-222)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The cost of finding and tracking two-thousand-plus kilometer-sized bodies that cross Earth's orbit is a few million dollars per year. Every estimate of the cost/benefit ratio that I have seen indicates that this is a wise investment. Developing a nearly complete catalog of these larger bodies is also clearly technically feasible, since such large bodies are relatively bright and relatively easily found. In fact, we have located about 10 percent of them already. In down-to-Earth terms, kilometer-sized bodies are global killers: they take die lives of a billion people per impact, and strike with explosive powers of one hundred thousand megatons at a mean rate of four impact events per million years. Thus the long-term average death rate from impacts is four billion people per million years, or four thousand people per year worldwide. The people of the United States make up about 5 percent of the global population, so the average American death rate from global-scale impacts is about two hundred per year. The death rate of American citizens from commercial aircraft crashes is one hunched people per year. The problem with finding and tracking these very large bodies is that evacuation docs not work: the effects of the disasters are global. The leading cause of death is probably famine induced by climate change. If such a body hits Earth, there are no refuges to which people can be relocated. Moving away from the computed impact area means selecting a slow death over a quick one. The death toll would be very little affected by any plausible relocation effort, since Earth's ability to support life would be universally diminished. Finding, tracking, and predicting the orbits of kilometer-sized bodies is neither technically demanding nor fiscally draining; rather, the problem arises when we ask what we would do with the knowledge. We can in fact do nothing meaningful to avoid this threat unless we use space technology to divert or destroy the threatening objects. The prospect of letting one hit our densely populated planet is unacceptable.</span>

The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage
<span style="text-decoration: none;">KAZAN</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">11 </span>(Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html%29/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)//DT]]
Stephen Hawking believes that <span style="text-decoration: none;">one of the major factors in the possible scarcity of intelligent life in our galaxy is the high probability of an asteroid or comet colliding with inhabited planets. We have observed, Hawking points out in Life in the Universe, the collision of a comet, Schumacher-Levi, with Jupiter, which produced a series of enormous fireballs, plumes many thousands of kilometers high, hot "bubbles" of gas in the atmosphere, and large dark "scars" on the atmosphere which had lifetimes on the order of weeks. Shoemaker-Levy 9 was the first comet discovered to be orbiting a planet, Jupiter, instead of the sun.</span> This enlargement of a 1993 Hubble Space Telescope image above shows the brightest nuclei in a string of approximately 20 objects that comprise Shoemaker-Levy 9 as it hurtled toward its July I994 collision with Jupiter. It is thought <span style="text-decoration: none;">the collision of a rather smaller body with the Earth, about 70 million years ago, was responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs. A few small early mammals survived, but anything as large as a human, would have almost certainly been wiped out.Through Earth's history such collisions occur, on the average every one million year. If this figure is correct, it would mean that intelligent life on Earth has developed only because of the lucky chance that there have been no major collisions in the last 70 million year</span>s. Other planets in the galaxy, Hawking believes, on which life has developed, may not have had a long enough collision free period to evolve intelligent beings. While NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, or WISE, is busy surveying the landscape of the infrared sky, building up a catalog of cosmic specimens -- everything from distant galaxies to "failed" stars, called brown dwarfs, closer to home, the NEOWise mission is picking out an impressive collection of asteroids and comets, most of these hang out in the Main Belt between Mars and Jupiter, but a small number are near-Earth objects -- asteroids and comets with orbits that pass within about 48 million kilometers (30 million miles) of Earth's orbit. By studying a small sample of near-Earth objects, WISE will learn more about the population as a whole. How do their sizes differ, and how many objects are dark versus light. "We are taking a census of a small sample of near-Earth objects to get a better idea of how they vary," said Amy Mainzer, the principal investigator of NEOWISE, a program to catalog asteroids seen with WISE. So far, the mission has observed more than 60,000 asteroids, both Main Belt and near-Earth objects, with more than 11,000 are new previously unknown objects.<span style="text-decoration: none;"> "Our data pipeline is bursting with asteroids," said WISE Principal Investigator Ned Wright of UCLA. "We are discovering about a hundred a day, mostly in the Main Belt." About 190 near-Earth asteroids have been observed to date, of which more than 50 are new discoveries.</span> All asteroid observations are reported to the NASA-funded International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center, a clearinghouse for data on all solar system bodies at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.




Even if the timeframe is long it’s irrelevant—we should evaluate impacts in a frame of millennia
<span style="text-decoration: none;">VERSCHUUR</span> 19<span style="text-decoration: none;">96</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)
There is an even more subtle reason why <span style="text-decoration: none;">we are unlikely to take collective and significant action to assure the long-term survival of our species</span>. It manifests as the psychological syndrome known as <span style="text-decoration: none;">the "illusion of invulnerability." Individuals cannot believe that they will personally succumb in the next catastrophe. This syndrome is at play in those who live happily in earthquake zones,</span> in <span style="text-decoration: none;">floodplains, or on the sides of active volcanoes</span>. The existence of the syndrome poses a paradox. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If we are concerned about the long-term survival of civilization, we must overcome our genetic predisposition to deal only with the immediate future</span>. Dealing with short-term issues is natural in all animals, and represents the practical way in which to survive from day to day. However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">this predisposition is not conducive to assuring a long-term existence</span>. Perhaps that is what is at issue. We have learned much about the natural universe in recent years, and the mind's eye has only just developed the ability to scan millions of years of time. Yet that seems to be no more than an intellectual exercise with little practical use. Perhaps <span style="text-decoration: none;">the evolution of our species may yet depend on whether we can succeed in making very long term plans and carrying them out for the benefit of life on earth. Scientific discovery has brought us to the point where we confront the awesome probability that collision with an earth-crossing object will bring an end to civilization. It is no longer a question of whether a massive impact will occur in the future; it is only a matter of when. Even if we think it will be a thousand years from now, the point of raising the issue is to ask ourselves what we plan to do about it. It may be time to think in terms of thousands of years into the future</span>. I am assuming that we care that our species will be around for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.

Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is
<span style="text-decoration: none;">POSNER</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">04</span> (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even if our insouciant reaction to small probabilities of great losses is accepted as an authentic basis for estimating the value of life in most such situations, the reaction may not generalize to ones in which the loss</span>, should it materialize, <span style="text-decoration: none;">would be the near or total extinction of the human race. If the annual probability of an asteroid collision that would kill 6 billion people is only 1 in 75 million, the expected number of deaths worldwide is only 80 per year, which may not seem a large enough number to justify the expense of an effective defense </span>against an asteroid collision. (This of course ignores smaller but still lethal collisions; but read on.) <span style="text-decoration: none;">But if there is a minute chance that the entire human race, both current and future, would be wiped out, together with all or most of the world’s animal population, we</span> (the ambiguous “we” of policy analysis, but there it may represent dominant public opinion) <span style="text-decoration: none;">may think that </span>//something//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> should be done to eliminate or reduce the risk, slight as it is, beyond what a standard cost-benefit analysis would imply</span>; may be willing, if the risk and the possible responses are explained carefully, to incur some cost in higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk.

Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end
<span style="text-decoration: none;">BARBEE</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">09</span> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])//DT
<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is generally accepted that statistics and probability theory is the best way to handle partial information problem</span>s. Gamblers and insurance companies employ it extensively. <span style="text-decoration: none;">However,one of the underlying premises is that it is acceptable to be wrong sometimes</span>. If a gambler makes a bad play, the hope is that the gambler has made more good plays than bad ones and still comes out ahead. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This however is not applicable to planetary defense against NEOs. Being wrong just once may prove fatal to </span>millions of people or to<span style="text-decoration: none;"> our entire species. If we trust our statistical estimates of the NEO population and our perceived collision probabilities too much, we risk </span>horrific damage or even<span style="text-decoration: none;"> extinction. This is how we must define the limit for how useful probability theory is in the decision-making process for defense against NEOs.</span>
Adv 2
Contention 3 is Accidents

Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes
<span style="text-decoration: none;">DAVID</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">02</span> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)
Military strategists and space scientists that wonder and worry about a run-in between Earth and a comet or asteroid have additional worries in these trying times. With world tensions being the way they are, <span style="text-decoration: none;">even a small incoming space rock, detonating over any number of political hot-spots, could trigger a country's nuclear response convinced it was attacked by an enemy</span>. Getting to know better the celestial neighborhood, chock full of passer-by asteroids and comets is more than a good idea. Not only can these objects become troublesome visitors, they are also resource-rich and scientifically bountiful worlds. Slowly, an action plan is taking shape. Noted asteroid and comet experts met here May 23-27, taking part in the National Space Society's International Space Development Conference 2002. Sweat the small stuff Being struck by a giant asteroid or comet isn't the main concern for Air Force Brigadier General Simon Worden, deputy director of operations for the United States Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado. He sweats the small stuff. Worden painted a picture of the next steps needed in planetary defense. His views are not from U.S. Department of Defense policy but are his own personal perspectives, drawing upon a professional background of astronomy. For example, Worden said, several tens of thousands of years ago an asteroid just 165-feet (50 meters) in diameter punched a giant hole in the ground near Winslow, Arizona. Then there was the Tunguska event. In June 1908, a massive fireball breached the sky, then exploded high above the Tunguska River valley in Siberia. Thought to be in the range of 165-feet (50 meters) to 330 feet (100 meters) in size, that object created a devastating blast equal to a 5 to 10 megaton nuclear explosion. A similar event is thought to have taken place in the late 1940s in Kazakhstan. <span style="text-decoration: none;">"There's probably several hundred thousand of these 100-meter or so objects</span>...the kind of ones that we worry about," Worden said. However, these are not the big cosmic bruisers linked with killing off dinosaurs or creating global catastrophes. On the other hand, if you happen to be within a few tens of miles from the explosion produced by one of these smaller near-Earth objects, "you might think it's a pretty serious catastrophe," Worden said. "The serious planetary defense efforts that we might mount in the next few decades will be directed at much smaller things," Worden said. Some <span style="text-decoration: none;">80 percent of the smaller objects cross the Earth's orbit</span>, "some of which are potentially threatening, or could be in the centuries ahead," he said. Nuclear trigger One set of high-tech military satellites is on special round-the-clock vigil. They perform global lookout duty for missile launches. However, they also spot meteor fireballs blazing through Earth's atmosphere. Roughly 30 fireballs detonate each year in the upper atmosphere, creating equivalent to a one-kiloton bomb burst, or larger, Worden said. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">These things hit every year and look like nuclear weapons. And a couple times a century they actually hit and cause a lot of damage</span>," Worden said. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">We now have 8 or 10 countries around the world with nuclear weapons...and not all of them have very good early warning systems. If one of these things hits</span>, say anywhere in India or Pakistan today, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we would have a very bad situation</span>. It would be awfully hard to explain to them that it wasn't the other guy," Worden pointed out. Similarly, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a fireball-caused blast over Tel Aviv or Islamabad "could be easily confused as a nuclear detonation and it may trigger a war</span>," Worden said. Meanwhile, now moving through the U.S. Defense Department circles, Worden added, is a study delving into issues of possibly setting up an asteroid warning system. That system could find a home within the Cheyenne Mountain Complex outside Colorado Springs, Colorado. The complex is the nerve center for the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and United States Space Command missions. Next steps Where do we go from here? <span style="text-decoration: none;">An important step</span>, Worden said, <span style="text-decoration: none;">is cataloging all of the objects that are potentially threatening, down to those small objects that could hit and destroy a city. To do this type of charting, military strategists now champion a space-based network of sensors</span> that keep an eye on Earth-circling satellites. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These</span> same space sentinels <span style="text-decoration: none;">could</span> serve double-time and <span style="text-decoration: none;">detect small asteroids</span>, he said

That would kill billions
<span style="text-decoration: none;">FORROW ET AL</span> 19<span style="text-decoration: none;">98</span> (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)
A missile launch activated by false warning is thus possible in both U.S. and Russian arsenals. For the reasons noted above, an accidental Russian launch is currently considered the greater risk. Several specific scenarios have been considered by the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization of the Department of Defense.31 <span style="text-decoration: none;">We have chosen to analyze a scenario that falls in the middle range of the danger posed by an accidental attack</span>: the launch against the United States of <span style="text-decoration: none;">the weapons on board a single Russian</span> Delta-IV ballistic-missile <span style="text-decoration: none;">submarine</span>, for two reasons. First, the safeguards against the unauthorized launch of Russian submarine-based missiles are weaker than those against either silo-based or mobile land-based rockets, because the Russian general staff cannot continuously monitor the status of the crew and missiles or use electronic links to override unauthorized launches by the crews. Second, the Delta-IV is and will remain the mainstay of the Russian strategic submarine fleet.27,32,33 Delta-IV submarines carry 16 missiles. Each missile is armed with four 100-kt warheads and has a range of 8300 km, which is sufficient to reach almost any part of the continental United States from typical launch stations in the Barents Sea.34,ss These missiles are believed to be aimed at "soft" targets, usually in or near American cities, whereas the more accurate silo-based missiles would attack U.S. military installations.36 Although a number of targeting strategies are possible for any particular Delta-IV, it is plausible that two of its missiles are assigned to attack war-supporting targets in each of eight U.S. urban areas. If 4 of the 16 missiles failed to reach their destinations because of malfunctions before or after the launch, then 12 missiles carrying a total of 48 warheads would reach their targets. POTENTIAL CONSEQUENCES OF A NUCLEAR ACCIDENT We assume that eight U.S. urban areas are hit: four with four warheads and four with eight warheads. We also assume that the targets have been selected according to standard military priorities: industrial, financial, and transportation sites and other components of the infrastructure that are essential for supporting or recovering from war. Since lowaltitude bursts are required to ensure the destruction of structures such as docks, concrete runways, steel-reinforced buildings, and underground facilities, most if not all detonations will cause substantial early fallout. Physical Effects Under our model, the numbers of immediate deaths are determined primarily by the area of the "superfires" that would result from a thermonuclear explosion over a city. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Fires would ignite</span> across the exposed area to roughly 10 or more calories of radiant heat per square centimeter, coalescing <span style="text-decoration: none;">into a giant firestorm with hurricane-force winds</span> and average air temperatures above the boiling point of water. Within this area, the combined effects of superheated wind, toxic smoke, and combustion gases would result in a death rate approaching 100 percent.3' For each 100-kt warhead, the radius of the circle of nearly 100 percent short-term lethality would be 4.3 km (2.7 miles), the range within which 10 cal per square centimeter is delivered to the earth's surface from the hot fireball under weather conditions in which the visibility is 8 km (5 miles), which is low for almost all weather conditions. We used Census CD to calculate the residential population within these areas according to 1990 U.S. Census data, adjusting for areas where circles from different warheads overlapped.38 In many urban areas, the daytime population, and therefore the casualties, would be much higher. Fallout The cloud of radioactive dust produced by lowaltitude bursts would be deposited as fallout downwind of the target area. The exact areas of fallout would not be predictable, because they would depend on wind direction and speed, but there would be large zones of potentially lethal radiation exposure. With average wind speeds of 24 to 48 km per hour (15 to 30 miles per hour), a 100-kt low-altitude detonation would result in a radiation zone 30 to 60 km (20 to 40 miles) long and 3 to 5 km (2 to 3 miles) wide in which exposed and unprotected persons would receive a lethal total dose of 600 rad within six hours.39 <span style="text-decoration: none;">With radioactive contamination of food and water supplies, the breakdown of refrigeration and sanitation systems, radiation-induced immune suppression, and crowding in relief facilities, epidemics of infectious diseases would be likely</span>.40 Deaths Table 1 shows the estimates of <span style="text-decoration: none;">early deaths for each cluster of targets</span> in or near the eight major urban areas, with a <span style="text-decoration: none;">total</span> of <span style="text-decoration: none;">6,838,000</span> initial deaths. Given the many indeterminate variables (e.g., the altitude of each warhead's detonation, the direction of the wind, the population density in the fallout zone, the effectiveness of evacuation procedures, and the availability of shelter and relief supplies), a reliable estimate of the total number of subsequent deaths from fallout and other sequelae of the attack is not possible. With 48 explosions probably resulting in thousands of square miles of lethal fallout around urban areas where there are thousands of persons per square mile, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it is plausible that these secondary deaths would outnumber the immediate deaths caused by the firestorms</span>. Medical Care in the Aftermath Earlier assessments have documented in detail the problems of caring for the injured survivors of a nuclear attack: the need for care would completely overwhelm the available health care resources.1-5,41 Most of the major medical centers in each urban area lie within the zone of total destruction. The number of patients with severe burns and other critical injuries would far exceed the available resources of all critical care facilities nationwide, including the country's 1708 beds in burn-care units (most of which are already occupied).42 The danger of intense radiation exposure would make it very difficult for emergency personnel even to enter the affected areas. The nearly complete destruction of local and regional transportation, communications, and energy networks would make it almost impossible to transport the severely injured to medical facilities outside the affected area. After the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan, which resulted in a much lower number of casualties (6500 people died and 34,900 were injured) and which had few of the complicating factors that would accompany a nuclear attack, there were long delays before outside medical assistance arrived.41 FROM DANGER TO PREVENTION Public health professionals now recognize that many, if not most, injuries and deaths from violence and accidents result from a predictable series of events that are, at least in principle, preventable.44,45 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The direct toll that would result from an accidental nuclear attack</span> of the type described above <span style="text-decoration: none;">would dwarf all prior accidents in history</span>. Furthermore, <span style="text-decoration: none;">such an attack, even if accidental, might prompt a retaliatory response resulting in an all-out nuclear exchange</span>. The World Health Organization has estimated that <span style="text-decoration: none;">this would result in billions of</span> direct and indirect <span style="text-decoration: none;">casualties worldwide.</span>4

Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Worden 2002 - United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Most people know of the Tunguska NEO strike in Siberia in 1908. An object probably less than 100 meters in diameter struck Siberia, releasing equivalent energy of up to 10 megatons. Many experts believe there were two other smaller events later in the century— one in Central Asia in the 1940s and one in the Amazon in the 1930s. In 1996, our satellite sensors detected a burst over Greenland of approximately 100 kiloton yield. Had any of these struck over a populated area, thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands might have perished. Experts now tell us that an even worse catastrophe than a land impact of a Tunguskasize event would be an ocean impact near a heavily populated shore. The resulting tidal wave could inundate shorelines for hundreds of miles and potentially kill millions. There are hundreds of thousands of objects the size of the Tunguska NEO that come near the earth. We know the orbits of just a few.</span>

Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate
<span style="text-decoration: none;">MANDELBAUM</span> 19<span style="text-decoration: none;">99</span> (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR, Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)
My argument says, tacitly, that while this point of view, which was widely believed 100 years ago, was not true then, there are reasons to think that it is true now. What is that argument? It is that <span style="text-decoration: none;">major war is obsolete</span>. By major war, I mean war waged by the most powerful members of the international system, using all of their resources over a protracted period of time with revolutionary geopolitical consequences. There have been four such wars in the modern period: the wars of the French Revolution, World War I, World War II, and the Cold War. Few though they have been, their consequences have been monumental. They are, by far, the most influential events in modern history. Modern history which can, in fact, be seen as a series of aftershocks to these four earthquakes. So if I am right, then what has been the motor of political history for the last two centuries that has been turned off? This war, I argue, <span style="text-decoration: none;">this kind of war, is</span> obsolete; less than impossible, but <span style="text-decoration: none;">more than unlikely</span>. What do I mean by obsolete? If I may quote from the article on which this presentation is based, a copy of which you received when coming in, “ Major war is obsolete in a way that styles of dress are obsolete. It is something that is out of fashion and, while it could be revived, there is no present demand for it. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Major war is obsolete in the way that slavery, dueling, or foot-binding are obsolete</span>. It is a social practice that was once considered normal, useful, even desirable, but that now seems odious. It is obsolete in the way that the central planning of economic activity is obsolete. It is a practice once regarded as a plausible, indeed a superior, way of achieving a socially desirable goal, but that changing conditions have made ineffective at best, counterproductive at worst.” Why is this so? Most simply, the <span style="text-decoration: none;">costs have risen and the benefits</span> of major war <span style="text-decoration: none;">have shriveled</span>. The costs of fighting such a war are extremely high <span style="text-decoration: none;">because of</span> the advent in the middle of this century of <span style="text-decoration: none;">nuclear weapons</span>, but they would have been high even had mankind never split the atom. As for the <span style="text-decoration: none;">benefits</span>, these <span style="text-decoration: none;">now seem</span>, at least from the point of view of the major powers, modest to <span style="text-decoration: none;">non-existent</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The traditional motives for warfare are</span> in retreat, if not <span style="text-decoration: none;">extinct. War is no longer regarded by anyone</span>, probably not even Saddam Hussein after his unhappy experience, <span style="text-decoration: none;">as a paying proposition</span>. And as for the <span style="text-decoration: none;">ideas on behalf of which major wars have been waged</span> in the past, these <span style="text-decoration: none;">are in steep decline</span>. Here the collapse of communism was an important milestone, for that ideology was inherently bellicose. This is not to say that the world has reached the end of ideology; quite the contrary. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">the ideology that is now in the ascendant</span>, our own, <span style="text-decoration: none;">liberalism, tends to be pacific</span>. Moreover, I would argue that <span style="text-decoration: none;">three post-Cold War developments have made major war even less likely</span> than it was after 1945. One of these is the rise of <span style="text-decoration: none;">democracy</span>, for democracies, I believe, tend to be peaceful. Now carried to its most extreme conclusion, this eventuates in an argument made by some prominent political scientists that democracies never go to war with one another. I wouldn’t go that far. I don’t believe that this is a law of history, like a law of nature, because I believe there are no such laws of history. But I do believe there is something in it. I believe there is a peaceful tendency inherent in democracy. Now it’s true that one important cause of war has not changed with the end of the Cold War. That is the structure of the international system, which is anarchic. And realists, to whom Fareed has referred and of whom John Mearsheimer and our guest Ken Waltz are perhaps the two most leading exponents in this country and the world at the moment, argue that that structure determines international activity, for it leads sovereign states to have to prepare to defend themselves, and those preparations sooner or later issue in war. I argue, however, that <span style="text-decoration: none;">a post-Cold War innovation counteracts the effects of anarchy</span>. This is what I have called in my 1996 book, The Dawn of Peace in Europe, <span style="text-decoration: none;">common security</span>. By common security I mean a regime of <span style="text-decoration: none;">negotiated arms limits that reduce</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">insecurity</span> that anarchy inevitably produces by transparency-every state can know what weapons every other state has and what it is doing with them-and <span style="text-decoration: none;">through the principle of defense dominance, the reconfiguration through negotiations of military forces to make them more suitable for defense and less for attack</span>. Some caveats are, indeed, in order where common security is concerned. It’s not universal. It exists only in Europe. And there it is certainly not irreversible. And I should add that what I have called common security is not a cause, but a consequence, of the major forces that have made war less likely. States enter into common security arrangements when they have already, for other reasons, decided that they do not wish to go to war. Well, the third feature of the post-Cold War international system that seems to me to lend itself to warlessness is <span style="text-decoration: none;">the</span> novel <span style="text-decoration: none;">distinction between</span> the periphery and the core, between the <span style="text-decoration: none;">powerful states and the less powerful ones</span>. This was previously a cause of conflict and <span style="text-decoration: none;">now is far less important</span>. To quote from the article again, “ While for much of recorded history local conflicts were absorbed into great-power conflicts, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in the wake of the Cold War, with the industrial democracies debellicised and Russia and China preoccupied with internal affairs, there is no great-power conflict into which the many local conflicts that have erupted can be absorbed. The great chess game of international politics is finished, </span>or at least suspended. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king</span>.”

No risk of deliberate nuclear war
<span style="text-decoration: none;">ROTHSTEIN, AUER AND SIEGEL</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">04</span> (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein)
Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? Yes, but unlikely. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Cold War is over, and the ballistic missile threat from nuclear-capable nations is extremely minor</span>. In February 2001, the Defense Intelligence Agency listed Iraq, Iran, and North Korea as "countries of concern" that might someday field long-range, WMD-capable missiles, and Russia and China as nations expanding their long-range missile programs. One presumes <span style="text-decoration: none;">Iraq is now off the list. As to Iran and North Korea, both nations have decent missile capabilities, but Iran cannot strike the United States, and most analysts believe the same about North Korea, despite its boasts</span>. On the other hand, North Korea has nuclear material, and Iran is believed to be working toward a nuclear weapons capability. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China has</span> a whopping <span style="text-decoration: none;">20</span> Dong Feng <span style="text-decoration: none;">missiles that can reach America. (The United States has close to 6,000 operational strategic nuclear weapons</span>, as the Bulletin's May/June "Nuclear Notebook" reported.) <span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia's capabilities are more comparable to America's</span>, and Russia is expanding its capabilities, according to the July/August "Nuclear Notebook," <span style="text-decoration: none;">but</span> a planned <span style="text-decoration: none;">attack from Moscow is extremely improbable</span>.

Plan
Solvency
Contention 4 is Solvency

The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs
<span style="text-decoration: none;">NRC</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">10 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys have a number of advantages. Such surveys discover more NEOs of all sizes, including a substantial number smaller than 140 meters in diameter. These combined surveys also provide more characterization data about the entire NEO population. With both infrared and visible data for most targets, it would be possible to obtain accurate diameter estimates for all objects, as well as measurements of their albedos and their surface and thermal properties. These high-value characterization data could help to guide mitigation campaign studies. Additionally, a dual survey provides much information on the population of objects smaller than 140 meters in diameter.</span>

Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration
<span style="text-decoration: none;">NAC</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">10 </span>(“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
2.1. NEO Search: To implement this recommendation, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Task Force recommends that NASA immediately initiate a space-based infrared telescopic NEO search project</span> as the primary means of meeting the congressionally mandated George E. Brown NEO Survey goal. <span style="text-decoration: none;">NASA was tasked to discover 90 percent of the NEOs larger than 140 meters by the end of 2020 </span>as part of the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law No. 109-155). Both ground- and space-based options for meeting the George E. Brown, Jr. NEO Survey goals have been investigated. Although NASA should continue to assist state-of -the-art ground-based optical surveys, including those coming on line or planned by other agencies (e.g., PanSTARRS, LSST), one or more <span style="text-decoration: none;">space-based infrared</span> (IR) <span style="text-decoration: none;">telescopes</span> in an orbit interior to Earth’s (e.g., a Venus-like orbit) <span style="text-decoration: none;">offers several search efficiency advantages. Compared with ground-based optical systems, such space-based systems possess greater discovery efficiency and can more accurately determine the sizes and orbits of potentially threatening objects</span>. The cost of such a survey asset is comparable to the multiple dedicated ground-based alternatives required, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and will rapidly meet the legislated completion goal (probably within seven years</span>). Additionally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a space-based survey, with its advantageous observing geometry and frequency, will enable prompt and precise orbit determination of newly discovered NEOs in collaboration with ground-based optical and radar systems, reducing the need for actual deflection campaigns</span>. NASA should also examine the additional costs and observing advantages of a pair of such Venus-orbit survey telescopes, both to complete the overall survey more rapidly and aid in collapsing the error ellipse of worrisome NEOs. These enhanced capabilities may further reduce unnecessary launches of in situ tracking or deflection spacecraft. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Although some NEOs are potentially hazardous, their periodic close approaches to Earth also make them among the most accessible objects in the solar system for robotic and human exploration. A space-based IR survey telescope would efficiently find both exploration targets and threatening NEOs currently inaccessible to observation by ground-based systems</span>.

Deflection would be easy
<span style="text-decoration: none;">BOTTKE et al</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">04</span> (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)
It is now generally accepted that impacts of large NEOs represent a hazard to human civilization. This issue was brought into focus by the pioneering work of Alvarez et al. (1980), who showed that the extinction of numerous species at the Cretaceous–Tertiary geologic boundary was almost certainly caused by the impact of a massive asteroid (at a site later identified with the Chicxulub crater in the Yucatan peninsula) (Hildebrand et al. 1991). Today, the United Nations, the US Congress, the European Council, the UK Parliament, the IAU, NASA, and ESA have all made official statements that describe the importance of studying and understanding the NEO population. In fact, <span style="text-decoration: none;">among all worldwide dangers that threaten humanity, the NEO hazard may be the easiest to cope with, provided adequate resources are allocated to identify all NEOs of relevant size. Once we can forecast potential collisions between dangerous NEOs and Earth, action can be taken to mitigate the potential consequences</span>.

Asteroid risks are unique—it’s the only disaster we can totally avoid
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Morrison 2005 - NASA Astrobiology Institute (David, “ Defending the Earth Against Asteroids: The Case for a Global Response ” [[http://www.princeton.edu/sgs/publications/sgs/pdf/13%201-2%20Morrision.pdf]] Science and Global Security, 13:87–103 )</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">No asteroids have been discovered so far that threaten an impact over the next several centuries. Of course, we can say nothing about possible hits from the undiscovered fraction of the NEA population. These surveys are deemed to be worthwhile because we have the technology, at least in principle, to deflect a threatening asteroid, given decades of warning. The impact hazard is unique in that it is possible to avoid the damage entirely. In most natural hazard areas, “mitigation” consists of ways to plan for a disaster or to deal with the disaster after it happens. Only in the case of cosmic impacts can we develop mitigation plans with the objective of avoiding the disaster itself.</span>

Only NASA can do the plan
<span style="text-decoration: none;">FORTUNO</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">07 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(1) Arecibo Observatory is the world's largest single-aperture telescope. It has been recognized as an Electrical Engineering Milestone by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and as a Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Its visitor center draws 120,000 visitors each year. (2) Arecibo radio astronomy led to the first discovery of planets outside our own solar system, the first discovery of a binary pulsar (resulting in a Nobel Prize), and the first detailed three-dimensional mapping of how galaxies are distributed in the universe. (3) Arecibo Observatory's planetary radar has unique abilities worldwide for research on our solar system, including near-Earth asteroids. Besides their scientific importance, near-Earth asteroids may be both a significant hazard to Earth and a potential source of future resources. (4) Arecibo Observatory is a leading United States laboratory for research on Earth's ionosphere. (5) Congress has mandated that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration detect, track, catalogue, and characterize near-Earth asteroids and comets in order to provide warning and mitigation of the potential hazard of such near-Earth objects to the Earth. By being on the forefront of basic research involving Near-Earth Objects, Space Weather, and Global Climate Change, the Arecibo Observatory is an outstanding resource to Congress and to the American People. (6) The efforts taken to date by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation for detecting and characterizing the hazards of Earth orbit-crossing asteroids and comets are not sufficient to the threat posed by such objects to cause widespread destruction and loss of life. (7) The general welfare and security of the United States require that the unique competence of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in science and engineering systems be directed to detecting, tracking, cataloging, and characterizing near-Earth asteroids and comets. The Arecibo Observatory is an invaluable and unique asset in warning and mitigating potential hazards posed by near-Earth objects.</span>

NASA is key
<span style="text-decoration: none;">NAC</span> 20<span style="text-decoration: none;">10</span> (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">For more than a decade, NASA has been searching for</span> near-Earth objects (<span style="text-decoration: none;">NEOs) that may pose a potential impact threat</span> to Earth. Both the legislative and executive branches are considering what role NASA may play in expanding its NEO search and developing the capability to prevent or mitigate a future impact. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The space agency has broad expertise in scientific exploration and characterization of near-Earth asteroids</span> (NEAs) <span style="text-decoration: none;">and comets</span> (NECs), <span style="text-decoration: none;">and NASA’s deep space operations experience could enable the development of deflection technologies to be used to divert a NEO threatening an impact</span>.

<span style="color: black;">Other actors start from scratch – NASA baseline surveys and technology is key</span>
<span style="color: black;">National Academies 2009 (The National Academies Press, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, Space Studies Board,<span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1%29//DT|http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)]]</span></span>

<span style="color: black;">The United States is currently the only country with an active, government-sponsored effort to detect and track potentially hazardous near-Earth objects (NEOs). At congressional direction, NASA funds several ground-based observatories primarily dedicated to conducting NEO surveys. Several new or proposed observatories with other non-NEO objectives can also contribute to the NEO survey task. Congress has mandated that NASA detect[[@http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1#p20019ca48960001001|1]] and track 90 percent of NEOs that are 1 kilometer in diameter or larger. These objects represent a great potential hazard to life on Earth and could cause global destruction. NASA is close to accomplishing this goal.Congress has more recently mandated that by 2020 NASA should detect and track 90 percent of NEOs that are 140 meters in diameter or larger, a category of objects that is generally recognized to represent a very significant threat to life on Earth if they strike in or near urban areas. Achieving this goal may require the building of one or more additional observatories, possibly including a space-based observatory.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Congress directed NASA to ask the National Research Council to review NASA’s near-Earth object programs. This interim report addresses some of the issues associated with the survey and detection of NEOs. However, the committee continues its information collection and deliberations and will address a broader range of issues in its final report, due for delivery at the end of 2009. During its study so far, the committee has determined that the issues of survey and detection and characterization[[@http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1#p20019ca48960001002|2]] and mitigation are closely linked and should be addressed as a whole. For example, NEOs detected by ground-based telescopes can be better tracked by the AreciboObservatory when within its range. Thus this observatory plays a key role in determining physical characteristics of NEOs, important in determining how to mitigate the effects of NEOs on Earth. In part because of this interrelationship, and because the interim report does not address mitigation issues, the committee has deferred proposing an optimum approach to the survey and detection problem until its final report. The final report will contain findings and recommendations for survey and detection, characterization, and mitigation of near-Earth objects based on an integrated assessment of the problem.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Only NASA can effectively coordinate global response</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)</span>
<span style="color: black;">National emergency plans for natural disasters can also work in the unlikely scenario of an asteroid strike on the U.S., according to a letter to Congress by the White House's top science adviser, Space.com has learned.</span>
<span style="color: black;">The 10-page letter by John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, adds that the U.S. has a responsibility to the world as the country most capable of detecting space rocks that threaten Earth. The Oct. 15 letter obtained by SPACE.com is addressed to the leaders of the House Committee on Science and Technology.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Holdren states that NASA must continue leading efforts to close the gap in detecting and perhaps deflecting near-Earth objects (NEO). The U.S. space agency already has the duty of alerting the rest of the government about any threatening space objects.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Holdren's letter also laid out the duties of other federal agencies in handling emergency communications and response. It called for a "senior-level interagency simulation exercise" to test impact-response plans before the United States is confronted with an actual asteroid impact.</span>
<span style="color: black;">"My immediate reaction is that it represents the most detailed consideration of the U.S. government's response to the NEO threat to date, more clearly delineating communication links and responsibilities than had previously been the case," said Clark Chapman, space scientist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, ,eColo.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Going on alert</span>
<span style="color: black;">According to Holdren's letter, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, under the Department of Homeland Security, has the main responsibility on the ground in the U.S. FEMA can rely in part upon the National Warning System, which was designed to alert U.S. citizens to a Cold War nuclear attack.</span>
<span style="color: black;">The Department of Defense would work with NASA on possible mitigation or deflection scenarios that involved military resources.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Meanwhile, the Department of State would help coordinate any international warnings or responses in a deep-impact scenario that affects more than just the U.S. It has experience notifying other countries about re-entering human-made space objects, including the defunct USA-193 spy satellite that was ultimately destroyed by a U.S. Navy missile.</span>
<span style="color: black;">"The United States is currently the world leader in NEO detection activities and will have a vital role to play in such communications, irrespective of whether the direct risk to the United States or its territories is considered low," Holdren said.</span>


Cooperation fails – unilateral action is key to an effective response
Worden 02 – Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command
(Brig. Gen. Simon P. Worden is Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif.; July 10, 2002; Speech by Gen. Simon Worden: "Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat"; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]]; JN)

Much discussion has been expended suggesting that any NEO impact mitigation should be an international operation. I would respectfully disagree. International space programs such as the International Space Station fill many functions. An NEO mitigation program would have only one objective. In the latter case a single responsible nation and organization would have the best chance of a successful mission. Moreover, the nation responsible would not need to worry about giving up national security sensitive information and technology as it would build and control the entire mission itself. For as pointed out the means to identify threats and mitigate them overlap considerably with other national security objectives.

Intervening actors solve their imapcts – asteroids outweigh
CHICHILNISKY AND EISENBERGER 2010 (Graciela Chichilnisky and Peter Eisenberger, Columbia University, “Asteroids: Assessing Catastrophic Risks,” Journal of Probability and Statistics, http://www.hindawi.com/journals/jps/2010/954750/)
Our rational decision maker who values the future of the species and understands what probabilities really mean, could go through the following simple analysis. For any value of <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">𝜇</span> even close to one-half the expected value we have calculated makes asteroids more threatening than global warming that is attracting all the attention of policy makers and the public today. In one sense this is satisfying since we would like to believe that we would give great value to prevent our extinction. However, we used the number of US $ 3 0 0 trillion ( <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">𝜇</span> = 1 / 2 ) for the expected value and argued that it is what we should spend to defend against extinction. This does not seem intuitively correct for many reasons, not the least of which is that we would have no resources left to do anything else. The answer to this dilemma is to recognize that what we are really interested in is utility loss from extinction rather than expected value for the dollars we allocate. This view can help us achieve an intuitively pleasing answer that we should spend as much money today on defenses against extinction as can be usefully transferred into improved protection. In the case of asteroids based on current estimates many experts believe this might be only about 1 0 times what we are now spending which is about US $ 3 0 million dollars. This is a small number and the corrected valuation of the risk is high enough that we should need no further analysis to decide to increase our efforts now and when new opportunities become available in the future.10. ConclusionsWe believe that the above analysis is the beginning of a much more extensive assessment and research about our response to all kinds of catastrophic risks. Recent results provide ways to enhance our subjective judgments about the value of <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">𝜇</span> , which is approximated by the marginal utility of avoiding extinction near the catastrophe, see the study by Chichilnisky in [4]. Other methods could include the application of Bayesian analysis involving experts who understand the nature of the threats as well as the correct meaning of low probability events. A Bayesian approach can be helpful to determine both the true risk profile and the most plausible utility function for the use of resources to combat a given threat. Such evaluations identify not only high expected value but also high utility. If there are very expensive things we can do to prevent the risk the the allocations of a large amount of resources may be warranted and the problem becomes more complicated. Our political leaders will need to make the more difficult choices between meeting todays' needs compared with the need to defend against distant catastrophic threats. This is not a new challenge since we and other nations spend a significant part of our resources to defend against the threat of nuclear war or the nuclear winter that would follow it. What is new is that now we recognize that many serious threats like those arising from glaciation, asteroid impact, and biodiversity loss are unlikely to occur within our lifetimes, yet we do not want to wake up one day and find that we are facing the impact of what was an avoidable catastrophic risk. Furthermore the same type of deficiency in our approach also exists for very rare events like tsunamis and earthquakes also leading to a poor allocation of resources, as was likely the case for the 2005 Asian tsunami. This work provides a framework to address these threats in a way that agrees with our intuition. We would like to allocate resources in a way that can be useful in reducing the catastrophic threats we face. In conclusion we offer another perspective that might also be useful for understanding why it is now that we are confronting the dilemmas. An analogy might help. Early on nobody spent a lot of money on personal insurance to protect him/herself. As we gained more knowledge of the risks we face and as we became affluent enough we decided to spend increasing amounts of money on insurance. In a similar way our species only recently has obtained the knowledge of some of the catastrophic risks we face and developed ways to cope with them. For the moment we are seriously underinsured so any way that we can do useful things to reduce our risk we should do so. Someday in the future we may be challenged as we were doing the cold war to decide between present risks and future ones.
===Plan Text - Greenhill, Niles West, New Trier=== 
Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects including both ground- and space-based tracking measures.
===2AC Russia CP=== 
**US Arecibo telescope is key**
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
The Arecibo Observatory, located near Arecibo…measurements on NEOs obtained in the last decade.

**Russia’s space program is inefficient and underfunded—no match for the US**
**RIA NOVOSTI 2008** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Russia Could Learn from US Space Program,” June 10, http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Russia_Could_Learn_From_US_Space_Program_999.html)</span>
NASA will lack manned spacecraft for reaching the ISS … we could learn something from the experience of our U.S. partner.
===2AC ESA CP=== 
<span class="Underline">**EU economically unstable-cant fund the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CIA ’11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 29 The World Factbook Europe; European Union, economy https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/ee.html</span>
Internally, the EU has abolished trade barriers, adopted a common currency… when the existing European Financial Stability Facility expires
===2AC Privatization CP=== 
**Federal action is necessary to provide common standards, promote competition, and coordinate results**
**STOKES et al 2002** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Stokes, Evans, and Larson, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, Near-Earth Asteroid Search Program, Asteroids III, [[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/books/AsteroidsIII/pdf/3037.pdf]])</span>
Asteroid searches over the past 20 years have been carried out by a number … period of time to generate an effective search volume.

**NASA has unique asteroid expertise and ongoing research**
**MURRILL AND WHALEN 1998** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Mary Beth Murrill and Mark Whalen, NASA, “JPL will establish Near-Earth Object Program Office for NASA,” July 24, http://neo.jpl.nasa.gov/program/neo.html)</span>
"We determined that in order to achieve our …__of it is ongoing here at JPL__," Yeomans said.

**Perm do the counterplan**

**Existing organizations can’t handle NEO tracking—the amount of information would overwhelm them**
**SPACE.COM 2005** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(12/21, Robert A. Meyers, staff writer for space.com, “New Telescope to Revolutionize Asteroid Warning System”, [[http://www.space.com/1883-telescope-revolutionize-asteroid-warning-system.html%29/DT|http://www.space.com/1883-telescope-revolutionize-asteroid-warning-system.html)//DT]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When these "wide screen" high-definition images finally start rolling in, turning the trickle of new potential dangers into a torrent, it could easily overwhelm the established system for handling them…and then fairly rapidly declared to be non-hazardous, this is in fact inevitable."</span>


**CP links to politics.**
**Pastzor, 2010**
[Andy, WSJ, “White House Decides to Outsource NASA Work,” 1-24, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704375604575023530543103488.html]
The White House has decided to begin funding private companies to carry NASA… space flight could be "on hold for the foreseeable future."

**Phase out guarantees controversy.**
**DISCOVER, 2010**
[Discover Magazine, “Obama’s NASA Budget: So Long, Moon Missions; Hello, Private Spaceflight,” 2-10, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/80beats/2010/02/01/obamas-nasa-budget-so-long-moon-missions-hello-private-spaceflight/]
However, the White House’s plan to shift to private … One day it will be like commercial airline travel, just not yet. It’s like 1920. Lindbergh hasn’t flown the Atlantic, and they’re trying to sell 747s to Pan Am” [Washington Post].
===2AC Politics Link Turns=== 
Winners win
Singer 9 (Jonathan, 3/3/9, MyDD, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital” http://mydd.com/2009/3/3/by-expending-capital-obama-grows-his-capital)
Peter Hart gets at a key point. Some believe that political capital is finite… from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq.

Political capital isn’t key – issues are compartmentalized-
Dickinson, 09 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)

As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: … reveals an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.

Turn Bipartisan support for asteroid detection
Physics Today, 10.(Physics Today is the flagship publication of the American Institute of Physics, July 20, 2010, “Congress moves toward protecting Earth against asteroid attacks,” http://blogs.physicstoday.org/newspicks/2010/07/congress-moves-toward-protecti.html, CALLAHAN)
Last month, Rep. Dana <span style="text-decoration: none;">Rohrabacher</span> (R–CA) <span style="text-decoration: none;">introduced a bill</span>… is currently being considered by the House Committee on Science and Technology.

Turn- bipart support for asteroid detection
Space War 10 – staff writers for space war.com (July 20, “Asteroid impacts subject of congress bill”, http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Asteroid_impacts_subject_of_Congress_bill_999.html)//DT

The U.S. Congress is considering a bill to establish …the threat appears again, and we must be ready."
===2AC Baudrillard=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">2.) Forget baudrillard, his totalizing critique disables a revitalization of leftist politics. His account of reality is hopelessly morbid, and incapable of accounting for cultural production. Simulation barely implicates debate whereas public responsibility is the foundation of the activity.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rorty 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Richard, professor of comparative literature at Stanford university, Achieving Our Country: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1998</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, pg. 98-105</span>

<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The cultural Left often seems … of the system we presently have.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">3.) Baudrillard’s radical theory is incapable solving the problem it critiques, only totalizing solutions are capable of breaking down capitalist structures that are the root cause </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kellner</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">prof phil @ UCLA </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas, “Boundaries and Borderlines: Reflections on Jean Baudrillard and Critical Theory”[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/illuminations/kell2.htm]]) </span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Against Foucault, Lyotard, and others … problems which confront us today</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">4.) The critique just reproduces hyperreality- there is no truth behind appearances that you can restore. The alternative fails and creates worse simulations that efface even the memory of historical violence</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baudrillard 81</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- Jean </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1981</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Simulacra and Simulation, p. 11</span>

<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And just as with ethnology, which … model, like the faces in funeral homes.</span>

===2AC T - Human=== 
3. counter-interpretation - Space exploration is inclusive of ground based observatories
MacDonald, 10 – a research scientist at Carnegie Mellon University (Andrew, 09/03/10, CMU, “A Brief Note on the Economic History of Space Exploration in America,” http://www.cmu.edu/silicon-valley/files/pdfs/macdonald-alex/brief-history-space-explore.pdf, ABella)

For hundreds of years prior to the Space Age, we explored space through the telescopes of ground-based astronomical observatories. If we consider discoveries made through observations by robotic spacecraft to be space exploration, then we should consider discoveries made through ground-based astronomical observatories to be space exploration as well. In both cases the experience of the human observer is fundamentally the same – that of having vision extended into space through advanced technology. By using a consistent metric to compare the cost of that technology, whether spacecraft or telescope, we can examine the economic history of space exploration in America as a continuum extending from the mid-19th century to the present day and identity long-run trends in funding. Two significant observations can be drawn from the calculations above. First, even before the mid-twentieth century, space exploration projects of comparative relative magnitude to small-to- mid-sized robotic spacecraft were relatively common. Second, for most of its history, space exploration in America has been principally funded by private sources. The re-emergence of this trend, in both astronomy and space exploration more generally, may be robust and long-lasting. Plans for the development of space exploration infrastructure should consider that economically.

4. we meet- And/or means both or one
Merriam-Webster ( “And/or”, [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/and/or]]

Definition of AND/OR
—used as a function word to indicate that two words or expressions are to be taken together or individually <language comprehension and/or production — David Crystal>

Space development is satellites
Yamanouchi 03, President of the National Space Development Agency (NASDA) in Japan (Shuichiro Yamanouchi, “ [Business leaders] Space and the Global Environment” [[http://www.japanfs.org/en/pages/011507.html]])

The objective of space development is not rockets, it's satellites. When you think about what satellites do, the first things that pop into your mind are probably weather satellites, BS or CS television broadcast satellites, and GPS (Global Positioning System) satellites.
Broadly speaking, the satellites that are the most in use today are broadcast and communications satellites. Broadcasting satellites (BS) and communications satellites (CS) have become full-blown businesses. Unfortunately, Japanese industry has practically no orders for these on the world market. This is because it can't compete with the number of satellites turned out by Europe and America, and also because following a trade dispute with America five or six years ago, under "Super Article 301," Japan's satellites must be procured internationally. The costs are quite different for a company that builds ten satellites a year compared to a company that builds only one or two. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation finally got an order to build two, but because wages are so high in Japan, the unfortunate reality is that it is not a good business.
===Add- Ons=== 
====Leadership Add-On==== 
Asteroid response is key to US leadership
NAC 2010 (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
Without the ability to detect the most numerous asteroids, …to effectively shield society from a future impact.

Leadership solves every scenario for conflict
Khalilizad 95 – Rand Corportation (Zalmay, “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2, pg. 84, Spring, Lexis)
Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global …than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.
====Indo-Pak Add-On==== 
Small asteroid impact could cause a nuclear war between India and Pakistan
<span style="text-decoration: none;">BBC NEWS 2002 (“Asteroids could trigger nuclear war,” July 15, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/2128488.stm)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">A small asteroid could accidentally trigger a nuclear war if mistaken for a missile strike, …been the spark for a nuclear war."</span>
====<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kritical Control Add-On</span>==== 

The mindset of control over human destiny is critical to prevent extinction

VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 215)

Childhood's end marks the time when we recognize that the decisions we make now will determine our fate… Are we ready to join together to think about this? Can we even do anything to assure our survival? Should we bother?


=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===ASPEC=== 
1. Fairness - failure to specify kills specific debate
Brovero 94 [Adrienne, Wake Forest University, “SOP, There It Is,” http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm]

Agent specificity is also necessary … policy is to be done.

2. Policy education – agent choice is key to effective policymaking
Komesar, 94 (Neil, professor of law at the University of Wisconsin, Imperfect Alternatives: Choosing Institutions in Law, Economics, and Public Policy, p. 4-5)

A link is missing—an … political process or the market.
===T - Human=== 
Interpretation: Exploration requires direct human presence
Mindell et al. 2009 - David A. Mindell – Dibner … /Publications/PDF/spaceFuture.pdf ) Jacome

“There is nothing predestined … society and those it encounters.”27

And development requires staffed commercial projects
Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer, … [staffed] commercial projects in space.
====2nc Cards==== 
**First limits – only requiring human presence creates a coherent limit on the topic by focusing on affs that require human involvement – the alternative is a “do anything in space” topic with no overarching theme which destroys debate**
**Burk 2k5,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">director of debate at ut-dallas</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chris, Posting to eDebate [the college debate listserve], 4/27, http://www.ndtceda.com/pipermail/edebate/2005-April/062186.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>__topic coherence can …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thusfar are solidly "NO</span>

**And predictability disad to their interp – ours is routinely used as the government definition**
**Lester and Robinson 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> –Research Fellow, PHD, Department of Astronomy, College of Natural Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin, and Michael Robinson is an assistant professor of history. His teaching and research fields include the history of exploration, history of American culture and science, and the history of globalization. He received his Ph.D. in the history of science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (Daniel, and Michael November, “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)</span>

__“Exploration” is a word …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the “exploration of space”. </span>


**They’re just reconnaissance**
**Wright 06 –** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">graduated from State University of New York at Binghamton Project Manager of Teachers in Space, Former President, X-Rocket, LLC, and Programming Writer Microsoft Corporation (Edward, Comment on “A Move Against ‘Mars Mission Funding’”, Space Politics, 6-28, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">) Jacome</span>

**__Unmanned missions are not …__** __co-opt the language.__

<span class="Underline">**Reasonability is arbitrary**</span>
**Stone ’23 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Justice in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 8th Circuit. </span>__Sussex Land & Live Stock Co v. Midwest Refining Co__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 1923. Lexis//GBS-JV]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Where the use of land … there is such a trespass.</span>
==Disads== 
===Export-Import Politics=== 
Ex-im refinancing will pass
Roll Call 4-11, ("Eric Cantor Seeks Deal With Steny Hoyer on Export-Import Bank," 2012, [[http://www.rollcall.com/news/eric_cantor_seeks_deal_with_steny_hoyer_on_export_import_bank-213719-1.html|www.rollcall.com/news/eric_cantor_seeks_deal_with_steny_hoyer_on_export_import_bank-213719-1.html]])
House Majority Leader Eric <span style="text-decoration: none;">Cantor (R-Va.) is negotiating a bipartisan deal with Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) on reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, an effort that is drawing praise from feuding factions in the business community</span> but threats from conservatives who would be skipped over by it.
Right-wing angst over the bank has stepped up in recent weeks, with the Club for Growth, Heritage Action for America and other outside conservative groups teaming with the Republican Study Committee in the House and Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in the Senate to fight for abolishing the bank altogether.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The finely calibrated deal under discussion</span>, as described by lobbyists and aides working on the issue, <span style="text-decoration: none;">would grab enough Democratic votes to overcome a bloc of 50 to 70 Republicans who strongly oppose reauthorizing the bank’s lending authority</span>. Such a result would signal at least an appearance of centrism.
“We are working to formulate a bipartisan bill to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank that includes needed reforms and accountability measures,” Cantor spokeswoman Laena Fallon said.
The bank’s annual conference is taking place in Washington, D.C., on Thursday and Friday.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Although Cantor is seen as an ally of Delta Airlines, which has been fighting for restrictions on the bank, his effort to find common ground has drawn praise from the bank’s supporters</span>. The Boeing Co., which benefits greatly from Export-Import Bank deals, is the leading company backing the bank.
Cantor is “the adult in the room,” said one lobbyist involved in the fight.
And the emphasis on bipartisanship is also in line with a recent push by Cantor for finding consensus between the parties, which could soften his image after he weathered Democratic attacks during the debt ceiling standoff.
Conservatives, though, aren’t happy they could be leapfrogged.
A source from one of the conservative groups working on the issue said the approach is going to cause Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) “a lot of problems going forward.”
If GOP leaders get around conservative objections with Democratic votes, “it’s going to send the message to conservatives that he’s more interested in political expedience than fiscally conservative policy,” the source said.
However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there were some cracks forming among the conservative opposition</span>. A GOP aide said <span style="text-decoration: none;">a group of RSC members is preparing a letter supporting the bank’s reauthorization.</span>
Boehner hasn’t taken a position on the Export-Import Bank. Michael Steel, a spokesman for the Ohio Republican, said: “The House Majority Leader and his staff have been doing a good job trying to find common ground on the issue. No decisions have been made at this point.”
Because of expiring provisions in current law, officials face a May 30 deadline to reauthorize the bank. One source following the issue said that <span style="text-decoration: none;">based on meetings with House staffers, passage of a reauthorization bill is likely within the next two weeks.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The fight over the bank has resulted in colorful charges of hypocrisy and some embarrassing revelations.</span>
The Club for Growth, led by former Rep. Chris Chocola (Ind.), published a list of the “Top 10 Clients” who received or benefited from loans from the bank. The list includes Solyndra, Mexican drug cartels, Enron and an oil company with ties to the Russian mafia.
Supporters of the bank noted Chocola’s family business once benefited from the bank’s loans.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Delta, the leading business critic, has received numerous federal subsidies and bailouts over the years.</span>
“They’ve been lobbying Congress for handouts for a decade,” said a former House aide to a RSC member. The source pointed out that Delta lobbied for and received a pension bailout from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. in 2007 for nearly $1 billion. “The irony is that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Delta spokesman who responds to this quote has his own pension subsidized by the U.S. taxpayer.”</span>

PC’s key
James 3-14, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, (Sallie, "Expanding Ex-Im's Mandate Is A Big Mistake," www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/expanding-exims-mandate-is-big-mistake
Clearly the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama</span> administration <span style="text-decoration: none;">is keen to emphasize and increase the countervailing role of the bank. In February 2012 President Obama used the occasion of a speech at a Boeing plant in Washington State to announce that he would "give American companies a fair shot by matching the unfair export financing that their competitors receive from other countries</span>."5 <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">A concerted</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> marketing **push by the administration** will presumably see the handful of countervailing financing recipients joined by many more.</span>

Key to cleantech promotion and transfer
Gluck 9, articles have appeared in the New York Times, North American Windpower, and Distributed Energy, (Robert, "EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ADOPTS CARBON POLICY TO ENCOURAGE RENEWABLE ENERGY," [[http://www.energyboom.com/policy/export-import-bank-adopts-carbon-policy-encourage-renewable-energy|www.energyboom.com/policy/export-import-bank-adopts-carbon-policy-encourage-renewable-energy]])
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Export-Import Bank of the United States became the first Export Credit Agency (ECA) to adopt a comprehensive Carbon Policy to guide its support of United States exports in light of climate change concerns.</span>
According to Export-Import Bank chairman Fred Hochberg, this approach is a win-win-win.
<span style="text-decoration: none;"> “We want to help American manufacturers produce green technology for the world</span>,” Hochberg said. “This common sense approach is good for the environment. It’s good for business, and it’s good for American workers.”
The Carbon Policy is in keeping with the Obama Administration’s commitment to help create new jobs through promotion of “green” technology. Nancy Sutley, chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, is looking forward to working with the Export-Import Bank on implementation of their Carbon Policy.
"<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Board's approval of their Carbon Policy is an important step toward greater transparency and enhanced environmental stewardship</span>,” Sutley said.
Included in the policy is a commitment to explore ways to further improve the Bank’s transparency in the tracking and reporting of CO2 emissions from projects that it supports. As a part of this policy <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Bank has established for the first time a $250 million facility to finance renewable energy exports, including solar, wind and geothermal energy.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The policy also commits the Bank to be a leader in financing of climate-friendly technologies made by American workers, including those that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Export-Import Bank also committed to advocate in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for the creation of financing incentives for low to zero CO2-emitting projects</span>, a common methodology for evaluating and taking into account the social cost of carbon, and disincentives for high intensity fossil fuel projects. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Bank initiated its efforts involving the OECD within hours of the Carbon Policy’s approval.</span>
“Adoption of the Bank’s new Carbon Policy is an important first step. As we move forward in the coming weeks we are committed to an open process to help us implement this policy by continuing to actively engage American exporters, workers and environmental advocates,” Hochberg said.
This isn't the first time the Export-Import Bank has stepped into this arena. In October 1998 the Bank was the first ECA to track greenhouse gas emissions of projects for which it provided financing. It was also the first to publicly disclose those figures.
According to its website, Export-Import Bank has historically been a leader in evaluating the environmental consequences of the projects for which it provides financing. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Bank has had environmental procedures in effect since 1993 and has been an international leader in this arena. It has vigorously promoted the adoption of common environmental standards by other export credit agencies through its activities in the OECD.</span>

Only way to solve warming
Lafton and Light 11, *Policy Analyst * Senior Fellow and Coordinator of International Climate Policy at the Center for American Progress(Rebecca and Andrew, "The Fight Over International Climate Investments," April 7, www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/04/intl_climate_investments.html)

Most <span style="text-decoration: none;">experts agree that the world needs to cut emissions in half by 2050 to have a decent chance of limiting temperature increase caused by carbon pollution at two degrees Celsius over pre-industrial levels</span>. Climate scientists concur that <span style="text-decoration: none;">holding temperature at this level is key to avoiding the worst effects of global warming.</span> While it is generally accepted as a matter of fairness that the first and deepest cuts should come from developed countries <span style="text-decoration: none;">it would be impossible to stabilize emissions at acceptable levels without the participation of developing countries</span>.
To take just one example, the most recent analysis from the Energy Information Agency shows that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Asia and Oceanic region of the world is now emitting twice as much carbon dioxide as North America. These increases are unfortunately offsetting concomitant reductions in emissions by developed countries</span>. So while U.S. emissions went down 7 percent between 2008 and 2009—primarily due to the economic recession—India’s went up 8.7 percent in the same period.
We should certainly expect emissions increases in developing countries because of the difficulty in transitioning away from high-carbon to low-carbon power sources as their economies grow to bring their populations out of poverty. Even with India’s recent growth there are millions of people still living in abject poverty and millions more in “energy poverty” without access to reliable sources of electricity on a daily basis.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The only way to achieve our goals for climate stabilization is to help these countries develop in a more sustainable way using lower-carbon or zero-carbon energy sources so that their rate of pollution increase slows down and eventually comes down as ours hopefully will.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">When and to what extent developing countries are able to begin slowing and bringing down their emissions greatly affects our chances of holding temperature at two degrees Celsius</span>. Last year when the American Power Act was introduced in the Senate the Environmental Protection Agency analyzed two scenarios on developing country action. In one scenario developing countries’ emissions peak beginning in 2025 and return to 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2050. In the second developing countries adopt policies in 2050 holding emissions constant at 2050 levels. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Assuming that developed countries fulfill their stated goal at the 2009 G8 summit in Italy to reduce emissions</span> 80 percent by <span style="text-decoration: none;">2050 we only have an 11 percent chance of holding temperature at two degrees Celsius under the scenario where developing countries begin holding their emissions in 2050. If developing countries peak emissions in 2025 then these odds improve to a 75 percent chance</span> of holding emissions at two degrees.

Extinction
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Deibel 7</span> (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there is one major existential threat</span> to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, <span style="text-decoration: none;">which</span>, though far in the future, <span style="text-decoration: none;">demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists</span> worldwide have <span style="text-decoration: none;">been observing</span> the gathering of this threat <span style="text-decoration: none;">for three decades now, and what was once a</span> mere <span style="text-decoration: none;">possibility has passed through probability to near certainty</span>. Indeed <span style="text-decoration: none;">not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles</span>,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “<span style="text-decoration: none;">it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming</span>.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “<span style="text-decoration: none;">Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads</span>; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “<span style="text-decoration: none;">The world is slowly disintegrating</span>,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be</span>. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we are already experiencing</span> the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more <span style="text-decoration: none;">violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and</span> threatened <span style="text-decoration: none;">inundation of low-lying countries</span> like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet</span> that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow</span>. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures</span>. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system</span>. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “<span style="text-decoration: none;">we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse</span>.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Global warming is the</span> post-Cold War era’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">equivalent of nuclear winter</span> at least as serious <span style="text-decoration: none;">and considerably better supported scientifically</span>. Over the long run <span style="text-decoration: none;">it puts dangers from</span> terrorism and traditional <span style="text-decoration: none;">military challenges to shame. It is a threat</span> not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially <span style="text-decoration: none;">to the continued existence of life on this planet</span>.

===Cyber Security Politics=== 
**cybersecurity regulation will pass now – capital is key**
**Nagesh 10-21**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Gautham. “Obama Officials Press for Cybersecurity Bill in Classified Briefing” The Hill, 10/21/11 ln//GBS-JV]</span>
Obama administration officials <span class="Underline">held a classified briefing</span> with senators …<span class="Underline">security standards</span> established by the government.

**Cyberterrorism causes nuclear war**
**Fritz ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons. Specifically, this research will use open source …<span class="Underline"> the need for compromising command and control centres directly.</span>

===American Jobs Act Politics=== 
Jobs act will pass – capital’s key
Sneed 9-12
[Tierny. Political Reporter for US News and World Report. “Will Congress Pass Obama’s Jobs Bill? US News and World Report, 9/12/11 ln//GBS-JV]//
//Thursday evening, President Obama [[http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2011/09/08/in-jobs-speech-obama-passes-the-buck-to-congress|spoke]] … ready to hand him a win?"//

//The plan’s unpopular//
//Powell, 2009//
//[Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]]//
//NASA supporters are bracing for … forward an Obama space program.”//

//It’s key to Obama’s reelection//
//CBS News 9-12//
//[CBS. “Expert: Happy Ending Possible for Economy” 9/12/11 [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/12/earlyshow/main20104776.shtml]]// GBS-JV]
President Obama sends his $447 billion … . Everything else is number four."

Republicans want to cut funding for NNSA- leads to nuclear terrorist attacks
Easley 3/25- political columnist and the politics editor at 411mania.com, Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science, chief editor at politicusa.com (Jason, “Rachel Maddow Calls Out The GOP For Budget Cuts That Enable al-Qaeda” March 25, 2011, http://www.politicususa.com/en/rachel-maddow-gop-al-qaeda)
On her MSNBC program, Rachel … al-Qaeda’s nuclear ambitions and dreams.

Extinction
Ayson 10 - Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and … the chances of nuclear restraint.
===Weaponization=== 
Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization
Huntley, 11 - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])
As is well understood, . … may lurk in these details.

The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy
Dant, 11 - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])

Cooperation for contested and competitive … of responsible space-faring nations.

Plan enables ASAT deployment
Hoey, 6 - a Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies (Matthew, The Space Review, “Military space systems: the road ahead,” 2/27, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]]
ORS: moving toward space weapons …should it be developed.

Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war
Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])

Perhaps of even greater concern … would be unacceptable to all.

Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

While some have compared space … use of force in space.

War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction
Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])

A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.
==Counterplans== 
===Executive Order CP=== 
Counterplan: The President of the United States should should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.

Presidential action solves best
Goldman, 92 [Space Policy an Introduction, Iowa state Press, Nathan, 0813810248, p. google books]
ALTHOUGH THE CONSTITUTION establishes separation … exerted itself politically and institutionally.
===ESA CP=== 
The European Space Agency should fund an observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.

The EU solves the aff –tech and experience
EC-SAG 9 (European Commission Space … to even more ambitious endeavours.

Increasing investment in space is key to European space leadership – now is key
European Commission 10 (European Commission Space Advisory Group, “Space Exploration, a New European Flagship Programme”, http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/newsroom/cf/_getdocument.cfm?doc_id=6195, 10/10/2010)
In a period of economic crisis … full benefits of the initiative.

Space leadership is key to European soft power
Peter 9 (Nicolas, analyst for the European Space Policy Institute, Space power and its implications—The case of Europe, published in Acta Astronautica, July 11 2009, p. 354, MM)
The effectiveness of space power … its projects (e.g. financial, technical, etc.).

That’s key to global action against climate change – now is key
Rattani 11 [Vijeta Rattani, research scholar at Centre for European Studies, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, 6 February 2011, “Time for the EU to get its act together in the Climate negotiations,” http://www.europesworld.org/NewEnglish/Home_old/CommunityPosts/tabid/809/PostID/2247/language/en-US/Default.aspx]

Overall, the EU’s role in … leader on the global platform.

extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]], WEA)
The findings of the comprehensive … findings were published in Science
===Data Sharing CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should reduce barriers against the release of high-accuracy orbital data.

Changing US policy encourages participation in data sharing – solves SSA
Kelso 9 – Dr. T.S. Kelso, senior research astrodynamicist for CSSI, has taught on the faculty at Air War College; Air Command and Staff College; the Airpower Research Institute; the College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education; and the Air Force Institute of Technology; September 2009, “Two Years of International Cooperation on Conjunction Mitigation,” http://www.amostech.com/ssw/Proceedings/Session6/S6-2Kelso.pdf, p.2
Of course, to encourage maximum … of another collision in orbit.

US promoting peaceful use of space – SSA key
Schulte 2011 - Gregory L.Schulte, Deputy Asst. Sec Def for Space Policy, April 13 2011, “A New Strategy for New Challenges in Space: Remarks to the National Space Symposium,” http://www.defense.gov/home/features/2011/0111_nsss/docs/Ambassador%20Gregory%20Schulte%20Speech%20at%20the%2027th%20National%20Space%20Symposium.pdf, p. 2-3
Promoting the responsible, peaceful, and … at a time of budget constraints.
===Anchor Tenant CP=== 
Being an anchor tenant is the only way for the DOD to create investment
NSSO 7 (October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” <span style="color: black;">www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>, FS)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that … service, such as the NextView acquisition approach pioneered by the National GeoSpatial‐imaging Agency. </span>

Loan guarantees solve better than the aff
Bova, 8 –award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, <span style="color: black;">http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html</span>

Once you enter the White House <span style="text-decoration: none;">you will face enormous problems… gigawatts we need to lower our imports of</span> foreign oil and begin to move away from <span style="text-decoration: none;">fossil fuels.</span>
==Kritiks== 
===1NC Fem K=== 
**The Affirmatives drive to dominate space is grounded in epistemologically flawed binaries – justifying their exploitation of space with “Man’s right” to dominate the other**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griffin 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>
The US is,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of course, </span>heavily reliant on its satellite-based systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and to this end works (to a certain extent) within a regime framework of international space ‘law’ (Brearly, 2005: 14). This is not to suggest that </span>US discourse is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not </span>constructed around the embedded belief that the US itself represents the //global hegemon,//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the only viable, indeed legitimate, keeper of global ‘order’. Although, as US Space Command states, the US may be challenged ‘regionally’, it remains ‘unlikely to be challenged by a global peer competitor (US Space Command, ‘Joint Vision 2020’). From a position of discursive hegemony, US Space Command and </span>the Pentagon have formulated a politics of Outer Space that is in all but name a justification for unabashedly imperial conquest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. According to the ‘Joint Vision 2020’ control of space assures ‘access to space, freedom of operations within the space medium, and an ability to deny others the use of space, if required’. </span>The discursive deployment of space as a ‘medium’ suggests that,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in US discourse, </span>space exists essentially as a void, an extractable and expendable resource to be used at will <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(much like the oceans of ‘historical sea commerce’), </span>with the US cast in ‘a classic warfighter role’<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The gendered assumptions that underlie this rhetoric are tacit but striking<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>and depend on two distinct, heteronormative, tropes of masculinization and femi­ nization. Firstly, the US’s ability to control ‘space capabilities’ depends upon assumptions of dominance inherent superiority that revolve around the (gendered) signifier of the US’s role as ‘classic’ or ‘active warfighter’<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: assumptions including the need for speed and watchfulness (‘real time space surveillance’), agility and technical superiority (‘timely and responsive spacelift’), ‘enhanced protection’ (of ‘military and commercial systems’), robustness and efficient repelling capabilities (‘robust negation systems’), ‘precision force’, and ‘enhanced “sensor-to-shooter”’ capabilities. </span>Secondly, in establishing its (heterosexually masculine) credentials, the US’s technostrategic reconfigures all other space-able nations as subordinate, constructing a binary, heterosexual relationship of masculine hegemony/feminine subordination<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Tellingly, US Space Command cites the forging of ‘global partnerships’ as essential to protecting US national interests and investments, where such partnerships are at the behest of the US, with those that partner the US ‘warfighter’ little more than passive conduits for US ‘opportunity’ and ‘commerce’ (‘Joint Vision 2020’). </span>This 'warfighting' discourse is not, of course, the only construction of outer space to possess discursive currency in the US, //'Space exploration'//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Crawford argues, </span>'is inherently exciting<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and as such is an obvious vehicle for inspiring the public in general, and young people in particular' (2005: 258). Viewed predominantly as a natural extension [Q the so-called evolution of military and commercial 'arts' in the Western hemisphere, human, technological expansion into outer space is justified in terms of scientific, commercial and militaty global entrepreneurship. </span>Conquering the final frontier of outer space is increasingly seen as crucial to a state's pre-eminence in the //global economy//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(cf. 'Joint Vision 2020'). International alliances in the post-Fordist economy 'have already consolidated the decision for future space exploration and colonization' (Casper and Moore 1995: 315). In a particularly dramatic turn of phrase, Seguin argues that '(mJankind (sic] now stands at the threshold of long-duration space habi­ tation and interplanetary travel' (2005: 980). Similarly, Manzey describes human missions to Mars less as contingent future events, but as the inevitable consequences of technological progress (Manzey 2004: 781-790). Space, once defined as a power-laden site of Cold War military conflict, has also become a site of international political and economic cooperation. Often conceptualized in expansionist terms, as that which will make our world bigger, with space 'discovery' expanding human knowledge, space is also conceived of as that which will make the world smaller, in neo-liberal globalization terms, 'by reconfiguring capitalism and nationalism' (Casper and Moore 1995: 315). </span>The US' 'warfighting' discourse is also at odds with much so-called 'space law'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in particular the Outer Space Treary (967), which defines space as the 'province ofall mankind' and asks that states act 'with due regard to the corre­ sponding interests of States Parties to the Treaty' (Bready 2005: 16-17). Within the US itself, congressionally-led efforts to discuss and minimize the threats posed by human-made debris caught in Low Earth Orbit (LEO), of which there is somewhere in the region of 2,300 metric tons (ibid.: 9), appear ill-matched with clear efforts by US government to increase the weaponization of space. </span>The US cooperates, to a limited extent, in perpetuating a sustainable space environment for its satellite-based systems, to which space debris undoubtedly poses a threat,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because this is of direct individual benefit to US commercial interests. The US refuses, however, to ratifY the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), prohibiting all use of nuclear explosions in space, since this constitutes a restriction of its ability to develop and test 'new' weapons. US critics of the CTBT contend that ratifYing the treaty would 'undercut confidence in the US deterrent', and thus increase 'the incentive for rogue states to obtain nuclear weapons' (Medalia 2006: 13). </span>All this is not to argue that dominant 'scientific' and 'commercial' justifications for space exploration, which are perhaps less overtly related to the militarization of space<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (for example, concerning advances in medicine, mole­ cular and cellular biology, geology, weather forecasting, robotics, electronics and so on), </span>do not in their basic assumptions also embody a gendered sense of //'man's' natural right to colonize// so-called unknown territory<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see, e.g. Morabito 2005). </span>The 'quest for knowledge' remains deeply embedded in Western accounts of the need for space colonization<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as Bush's 2004 speech makes clear), rationalized from humanity's so-called 'natural' desire to explore and conquer (cf, Bush 2004; Crawford 2005; Mendell 2005). Craw­ ford, in proposing a case for the 'scientific and social' importance of human space exploration, suggests that, there are reasons for believing that as a species Homo sapiens is geneti­ cally predisposed towards exploration and the colonisation of an open frontier. Access to such a frontier, at least vicariously, may be in some sense psychologically necessary for the long-term wellbeing of human societies. (Crawford 2005: 260) Similarly, NASA's website claims that 'from the time of our birth, humans have felt a primordial urge to explore', to 'blaze new trails, map new lands, and answer profound questions about ourselves and O l l [ universe' (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/|www.nasa.gov]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). </span>Much commercial gain already depends on the exploitation of outer space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but there is undoubtedly more to be made of space's 'resources': </span>'asteroidal' mining<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example; </span>the extraction of 'lunar soil oxygen'; the **mining of very rare 'Helium-3'**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from lunar soil as fuel for nuclear </span>fusion reactors; or space,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and particularly the Moon, </span>as a 'tourist venue', offering all kinds of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new 'sporting </span>opportunities'<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Morabito 2005: 5-7), </span>But the lines distinguishing the various components of the outer space 'whole' are vague, and are particularly obscured by the tacit but //pervasive heteronormativity// that makes of space<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (to borrow the language of the then USSPACECOM) </span>a 'medium' to be exploited; the passive receptacle of US terrestrial 'force'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>As Goh states, outer space 'is an arena of growing economic and technological importance, It is also a developing theatre of military defence and warfare' <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2004: 259), </span>US outer space discourse is driven by the belief that outer space exists to be conquered<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and that it rarely fights back), that those at the cutting edge of its exploitation are the 'visionaries' and 'entrepreneurs' that will pave the way to tourists, explorers, TV crews and to, as Morabito claims, 'dubious characters' such as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10). </span>

**The alternative is to reject the 1AC to open space for a reconceptualization of security – their discourse causes endless violence against the irrational other – we should ask the question “why?” not “how?”**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shepherd 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence,” //BJPIR//: 2007 VOL 9, 239–256]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Spike Peterson and Jacqui True comment, ‘our sense of self-identity and security may seem disproportionately threatened by societal challenge to gender ordering’ (Peterson and True 1998, 17). That is, the performance of gender is immanent in the performance of security and vice versa, both concern issues of ontological cohesion (as illustrated in Table 2). Taking this on board leads me to the conclusion that perhaps </span>security is best conceived of as referring to ontological rather than existential identity effects. //Security//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, if seen as performative of particular configura- tions of social/political order, </span>//is inherently gendered and// inherently related to //violence//. Violence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, on this view, </span>performs an ordering function—not only in the theory/practice of security and the reproduction of the international, but also in the reproduction of gendered subjects<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Butler acknowledges that ‘</span>//violence is done in the name of preserving western values’//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Butler 2004, 231); that is, the ordering function that is performed through the violences investigated here, as discussed above, organises political authority and subjectivity in an image that is in </span>keeping with the values of the powerful, often at the expense of the marginalised<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ‘</span>Clearly, the west does not author all violence, but it does, upon suffering or anticipating injury, marshal violence to preserve its borders, real or imaginary’ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ibid.). While Butler refers to the </span>violences undertaken in the protection of the sovereign state<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—violence in the name of security—the preservation of borders is also recognisable in the conceptual domain of the inter- national and in the adherence to a binary materiality of gender. </span>This adherence is evidenced in the desire to fix the meaning of concepts in ways that are not challenging to the current configuration of social/political order and subjectivity, and is product<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/productive </span>of ‘the exclusionary presuppositions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and foundations that shore up discursive practices </span>insofar as those foreclose the heterogeneity, gender<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, class or race of the </span>subject’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hanssen 2000, 215). </span>However, the terms used to //describe political action// and //plan future policy// could be otherwise imagined<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They could ‘remain that which is, in the present, never fully owned, but always and only redeployed, twisted, queered from prior usage and in the direction of urgent and expanding political purposes’ (Butler 1993, 228). The concepts both produced by and productive of policy could reflect an aversion to essentialism, while recognising that strategic gains can be made through the temporary binding of identities to bodies and constraining of authority within the confines of the territorial state. This is, in short, an appeal to a politics of both/and rather than either/or. </span>Both the state<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (produced through representations of security and vio- lence) </span>and the subject<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (produced through representations of gender and violence) </span>rely on a logic of sovereignty and ontological cohesion that must be problematised if alternative visions of authority and subjectivity are to become imaginable<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>International Relations as a discipline could seek to embrace the investigation of the multiple modalities of power,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the economic to the bureaucratic, from neo- liberal capitalism to the juridical. </span>Rather than defending the sovereign boundaries of the discipline from the unruly outside constituted by critical studies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of develop- ment, political structures, economy and law, not to mention the analysis of social/ political phenomena like those undertaken by always-already interdisciplinary feminist scholarship, </span>//IR could refuse to fix its own boundaries, and refuse to exercise sovereign power//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in terms of authority, over the meanings of its objects of analysis. </span>Future research on global politics could look very different if it were not for the inscription of ultimately arbitrary disciplinary borderlines that function to constrain rather than facilitate understanding. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It may seem that there is a tension between espousing a feminist poststructural politics and undertaking research that seeks to detail, through deconstruction, the ways in which particular discourses have failed to manifest the reforms needed to address security and violence in the context of gendered subjectivity and the constitution of political community. In keeping with the ontological position I hold, I argue that </span>__th<span class="Underline">ere is nothing inherent in the concepts of (international) security and (gender) violence that necessitated their being made meaningful in the way they have been. Those working on policy</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and advocacy in the area of security and violence </span>can use <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the</span> reconceptualisation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I offer ‘</span>to enable people to imagine how their being-in-the-world is not only changeable, but perhaps, ought to be changed’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Milliken 1999, 244). As a researcher, </span>//the question// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have grown most used to hearing </span>//is not ‘What?’ or ‘How?’ but ‘Why?’//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. At every level of the research process, from securing funding to relating to the academic community, it is necessary to be able to construct a convincing and coherent argument as to why this research is valuable, indeed vital, to the field in which I situate myself. A discursive approach acknowledges that my legitimacy as a knowing subject is constructed through discursive practices that privilege some forms of being over others. </span>In the study of security, because of the discursive power of the concept, and of violence, which can quite literally be an issue of life and death, these considerations are particularly important<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Further- more, </span>as a result of the invigorating<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and investigative </span>research conducted<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by exemplary </span>feminist scholars<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the field of IR,17 I felt encouraged to </span>reclaim the space to conduct research at the margins of a discipline that itself functions under a misnomer<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, being concerned as it is with relations inter-state rather than inter- national. As Cynthia Enloe has expressed it, </span>To study the powerful is not autocratic, it is simply reasonable. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Really? ... It presumes a priori that margins, silences and bottom rungs are so natu- rally marginal, silent and far from power that exactly how they are kept there could not possibly be of interest to the reasoning, reasonable explainer (Enloe 1996, 188, emphasis in original). If this is the case, I am more than happy to be unreasonable, and I am in excellent company.</span>

==Strategies (1NCs)== 
===Greenhill=== 
====Round 1 vs Gulliver BZ (Discover)==== 
ASPEC
T-Human
AJA Politics
Executive Order CP
ESA CP

====Round 4 vs Pine Crest FM (ORS)==== 
T-Human
AJA Politics
Weaponization DA
Data Sharing CP

====Round 6 vs Dowling DN (Climate Monitoring)==== 
ASPEC
T- Human
AJA Politics
Executive Order CP
ESA CP
===New Trier=== 
====Round 2 vs Dowling SM (Constellation)==== 
ASPEC
T-Human
Infastructure Politics DA
Weaponization DA
Executive Order CP
====Round 4 vs UC Lab SG (Asteroids)==== 
T-Human
Executive Order CP
ESA CP
Iran Prolif DA
Cyber Security DA
====Round 5 vs HoFlo CG (SPS)==== 
T-Human
Executive Order CP
DOD Anchor Tenant CP
Weaponization DA
Cyber Security DA
====Doubles vs Iowa City West KM (SPS)==== 
T-Human
Executive Order CP
DOD Anchor Tenant CP
Weaponization DA
Cyber Security DA
===University of Michigan=== 
====Round 2 vs Detroit Country Day PZ (Space Debris)==== 
T Human
XO CP
ESA CP
Cyber Security Politics
Weaponization DA
====Round 3 vs Whitney Young DV (ORS)==== 
T Human
XO CP
Data Sharing CP
Cyber Security Politics
PGS DA
====Round 6 vs New Trier BN (SBMD)==== 
T Human
XO CP
Code of Conduct CP
Cyber Security Politics
Weaponization DA
===Dowling=== 
====Round 1 vs Whitney Young DV (ORS)==== 
T Human
Security K
PTCs Politics
Commissions CP
Weaponization DA
====Round 4 vs Park Hill South JJ (RLVs)==== 
T Human
XO CP
PTCs Politics
Security K
====Round 5 vs Bloomington GH (SPS)==== 
T Human
Security K
Anchor Tenant CP
PTCs Politics
Weaponization DA
====Octos vs GBN TC (ASATs/SBMD)==== 
T Human
Security K
PTCs Politics
Commissions CP
Weaponization DA
===Blake=== 
====Round 2 vs Bishop Guertin RV (SBLs)==== 
T Human
Security K
PTCs Politics
Commissions CP
Weaponization DA
====Round 4 vs King College Prep MM (White Supremacy in Debate)==== 
Framework
Nietzsche
====Round 5 vs Millard South AC (Whitey on the Moon)==== 
Framework
Trance Music PIC
Nietzsche
PTCs Politics
====Doubles vs OPRF RC (Cyborgs)==== 
Framework
T Human
Ground-based CP
Ozone DA
"Exploration" word PIC
PTCs Politics
===Emory=== 
====Round 2 vs Edina LP (Moon Base)==== 
XO
Security
Russia Relations DA
PTCs Politics
Ozone DA
====Round 4 vs Centennial MK (Marine Domain Awareness)==== 
T Human
Advantage CP out of cooperation
Security
PTCs Politics
Russian Icebreakers DA
====Round 5 vs Kinkaid BJ (Nanotech)==== 
T Human
Commissions CP
Security K
PTCs Politics
Weaponization
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]