[[toc]]
=China Aff= 
==1AC== 
===UGA=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of Mars as per President Obama’s proposal for bilateral civil space cooperation with the People’s Republic of China.

Subpoint A is the impacts:

US-Sino military escalation causes missile prolif- that causes global war
Stokes and Blumenthal, 2011, January, Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “Can a treaty contain China's missiles?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123104108.html, KHaze

With the New START… irrelevant to nuclear stability.


Space arms race overwhelms checks on conflict and outweighs every impact
Mitchell, et al 01 – has been published in journals such as The Bulletin of Atomic Sciences; The Quarterly Journal of Speech; Science, Technology, and Human Values; and Argumentation and Advocacy. Author at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. Research associate (2002-2006) and deputy director (2007-2008) of the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies at the University of Pittsburgh, he convened working groups such as the Working Group on Preemptive and Preventive Military Intervention, supported Ridgway Center programming, and supervised Security Sweep, Ridgway's weblog (hosted jointly with the Ford Institute for Human Security). Winner of the James A. Winans-Herbert A. Wichelns Memorial Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Rhetoric and Public Address from the National Communication. (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space weapons… most destructive military conflict ever seen.


Long term relations are sustainable in every other arena- space competition is the only place for deterioration
Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, KHaze)

On the surface, it may… uncompromising realm is outer space.


Subpoint B- solvency

Even the DoD admits China is an inherently peaceful-prone nation
Department of Defense, 2011, “ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China 2011,” http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/2011_CMPR_Final.pdf, KHaze

China’s current strategy remains… and not stand out.


China’s economic rise is inevitable- reducing hostility incentivizes China to produce a peaceful multilateralism
Kenny, 9-6-11, Charles, senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation, and author, most recently, of Getting Better: Why Global Development Is Succeeding and How We Can Improve the World Even More. "The Optimist," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly. “Red Dawn,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/06/red_dawn, KHaze

Furthermore, China will become… to embrace the inevitable.


Next week opens a critical time to influence China’s next leader- the status quo creates a perception of aggression that destroys trust with the US
Lieberthal, 2-12-12, Kenneth, Director, John L. Thornton China Center J. Stapleton Roy, Director, Kissinger Institute on China and the United States, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars The Washington Post, “Xi Jinping's Visit: Focus on U.S.-China Security Posture Agenda,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0212_china_lieberthal.aspx, KHaze

Chinese Vice President Xi[’s] Jinping's… begin next week.



Perception of US aggression undermines control over the PLA- the plan’s concession removes their ability to paint the US as aggressive
Thompson, 1-17-11, Drew, director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center. “Hu's Really in Control in China?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/17/hu_s_really_in_control_in_china, KHaze

Meanwhile, Hu's upcoming visit… without using the term.


Perception of US threats to space force Chinese space weapon development- this collpases containment
Neil, 1-11-11, Alexander, head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute, “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-12154991, KHaze

Beneath the veneer of… and mistrust in the region.



Lack of substantive cooperation makes conflict and arms races inevitable
DeGroot, 8-25-11, Gerard, BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), writes for The Telegraph, author of “Dark Side of the Moon,” “As China gazes upwards, watch this space,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html, KHaze

Ever since the first rocket… been treated like one.


China can cooperate and will ask for inclusion
Selding, 4-14-11, Peter B. de, Space News, “Chinese Government Official Urges U.S.-Chinese Space Cooperation,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html, KHaze

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — A top Chinese… monitoring and management.


Cooperation prevents aggressive unilateralism
Mindell et al ’08 – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf)

As China enters the human… United States and China.


The US has rejected space cooperation with China- the status quo only decreases China’s incentives to cooperate in the future
Dellios, 2012, Rosita, Bond University, Humanities & Social Sciences papers, Ashgate Research
Companion on Chinese Foreign Policy, “China and outer space” http://epublications.bond.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1584&context=hss_pubs, KHaze

The timetable for the… we need them” (in Foust 2011).



Plan resolves perceptions of US aggression in space- containment promotes fast-paced modernization while inaction causes China to see US vagueness as a signal for outracing us to defend themselves
Johnson-Freese, 2004, Joan, Chair of the National Security Decision Making Department at the United States Naval War College. “Chinese Chess in Space,” http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinese-chess-space, KHaze

NEWPORT, USA: Over three millennia ago,… best "next move" for the US.


===St. Mark's=== 
<span class="Underline">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of Mars via President Obama’s proposal for bilateral civil space cooperation with the People’s Republic of China.</span>

<span class="Underline">Subpoint A- The status quo</span>

<span class="Underline">The US has a unique window to engage China in space to create a sustainable long term relationship- the status quo only promotes a dangerous space arms race</span>
<span class="Underline">Moskowitz, 9-29-11, Clara, journalist for USA Today, Tehran Times, and space.com, “U.S. & China: Space race or cosmic cooperation?” http://www.tehrantimes.com/index.php/component/content/article/3005, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">This week the rising space… policies and programs."</span>


<span class="Underline">Even the DoD admits China is an inherently peaceful-prone nation</span>
<span class="Underline">Department of Defense, 2011, “ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China 2011,” http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/2011_CMPR_Final.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">China’s current strategy… and not stand out.</span>


<span class="Underline">Hu Jintao is attempting to keep the PLA from gaining conservative support and starting and aggressive military doctrine in space- only US concessions can give him political leverage</span>
<span class="Underline">Thompson, 1-17-11, Drew, director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center. “Hu's Really in Control in China?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/17/hu_s_really_in_control_in_china, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Meanwhile, Hu's upcoming visit to… without using the term.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-Sino military relations are falling apart now- China is being forced to advance space weaponization to keep up with the arms race- this ensures containment will fail</span>
<span class="Underline">Neil, 1-11-11, Alexander, head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute, “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-12154991, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Beneath the veneer of official… mistrust in the region.</span>


<span class="Underline">China’s economic rise is inevitable- reducing hostility incentivizes China to produce a peaceful multilateralism</span>
<span class="Underline">Kenny, 9-6-11, Charles, senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation, and author, most recently, of Getting Better: Why Global Development Is Succeeding and How We Can Improve the World Even More. "The Optimist," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly. “Red Dawn,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/06/red_dawn, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Furthermore, China will become the dominant economic… to embrace the inevitable.</span>


<span class="Underline">Relative economic shift outweighs any other measure of power- containment in the current environment only provokes war</span>
<span class="Underline">Jacques, 9-23-11, Martin, New York Times, “The Case for Countering China’s Rise,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/25/books/review/a-contest-for-supremacy-by-aaron-l-friedberg-book-review.html?_r=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Friedberg is certainly right that… let alone prevent.</span>


<span class="Underline">Subpoint B- the impacts-</span>

<span class="Underline">Even if China can’t beat us militarily, the perception of vulnerability promotes bellicose hypernatonationalism that escalates</span>
<span class="Underline">Feaver, 1-21-11, Peter, Foreign Policy, “Chinese regime scared of banality,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/01/21/chinese_regime_scared_of_banality, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">But this short report… have seen in the past year.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China tit-for-tat escalation forces them to engage missile buildup- this draws in other states and collapses missile treaties- any state could tip this balance into total war</span>
<span class="Underline">Stokes and Blumenthal, 2011, January, Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “Can a treaty contain China's missiles?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123104108.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">With the New START treaty… irrelevant to nuclear stability.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space arms race creates a doctrine of pre-emptive war- countries will be pressured into conflict regardless of rational checks</span>
<span class="Underline">Mitchell, et al 01 – has been published in journals such as The Bulletin of Atomic Sciences; The Quarterly Journal of Speech; Science, Technology, and Human Values; and Argumentation and Advocacy. Author at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. Research associate (2002-2006) and deputy director (2007-2008) of the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies at the University of Pittsburgh, he convened working groups such as the Working Group on Preemptive and Preventive Military Intervention, supported Ridgway Center programming, and supervised Security Sweep, Ridgway's weblog (hosted jointly with the Ford Institute for Human Security). Winner of the James A. Winans-Herbert A. Wichelns Memorial Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Rhetoric and Public Address from the National Communication. (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A buildup of space weapons… most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China war goes global- self-defense by China provokes international intervention and economic linkages draw in the entire world</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, American Military University 2009 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">A war between China,… be considered in this study.</span>


<span class="Underline">Subpoint C- Solvency</span>

<span class="Underline">Engaging China in space removes the incentive for aggression- solves both sides of the arms race</span>
<span class="Underline">DeGroot, 8-25-11, Gerard, BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), writes for The Telegraph, author of “Dark Side of the Moon,” “As China gazes upwards, watch this space,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Ever since the first rocket shot,… been treated like one.</span>


<span class="Underline">Cooperation prevents aggressive unilateralism</span>
<span class="Underline">Mindell et al ’08 – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">As China enters the human… between the United States and China.</span>


<span class="Underline">Cooperation prevents miscalc</span>
<span class="Underline">Alanna Krolikowski, Visiting scholar, Space Policy Institute, The George Washington University PhD candidate, University of Toronto, 5/11/2011, “China’s Civil and Commercial Space Activities and their Implications”, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/11_05_11_krolikowski_testimony.</span>

<span class="Underline">China is one of very… prove valuable in a crisis.</span>


<span class="Underline">Obama’s Mars plan co-operates with China- offers them the chance to join</span>
<span class="Underline">Svitak, Space News, 5/4/11 (Amy, Space News staff writer, “China Viewed as Potential U.S. Partner in Future Mars Exploration”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html, accessed 7/1/11) EK</span>

<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON — U.S. President Barack… them and with others.”</span>


<span class="Underline">China has the tech to co-operate and they’ll ask for inclusion</span>
<span class="Underline">Selding, 4-14-11, Peter B. de, Space News, “Chinese Government Official Urges U.S.-Chinese Space Cooperation,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — A top Chinese… monitoring and management.</span>


<span class="Underline">Mars cooperation spills over- leads to long term ties that solve tensions</span>
<span class="Underline">Rutkowski, 2008, Ryan, master's student studying international economics at Johns Hopkins University - Nanjing University Center for Chinese-American Studies, “The Prospect of US – China Collaboration for Manned-Space Exploration,” http://mysite.verizon.net/ryan.rutkowski/Blog/US-China%20Space%20cooperation.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">However, the continued reluctance… solar system, and worlds beyond.</span>


<span class="Underline">Long term relations are sustainable in every other arena- space competition is the only place for deterioration</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, KHaze)</span>

<span class="Underline">On the surface, it may seem… realm is outer space.</span>

===Greenhill=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of Mars via President Obama's proposal for bilateral civil space cooperation with the People's Republic of China.

Removed Robertson

<span class="Underline">China has the tech to co-operate and they’ll ask for inclusion</span>
<span class="Underline">Selding, 4-14-11, Peter B. de, Space News, “Chinese Government Official Urges U.S.-Chinese Space Cooperation,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — A top Chinese government… monitoring and management.</span>


<span class="Underline">Mars cooperation spills over- leads to long term ties that solve tensions</span>
<span class="Underline">Rutkowski, 2008, Ryan, master's student studying international economics at Johns Hopkins University - Nanjing University Center for Chinese-American Studies, “The Prospect of US – China Collaboration for Manned-Space Exploration,” http://mysite.verizon.net/ryan.rutkowski/Blog/US-China%20Space%20cooperation.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">However, the continued reluctance… and worlds beyond.</span>



===Wake=== 
<span class="Underline">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its capability and effort to engage the People’s Republic of China in exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

<span class="Underline">Subpoint A- The status quo</span>

<span class="Underline">The recent “Wolf Clause” bans US-Sino collaboration in space- NASA refuses to resist the clause to preserve their funding</span>
<span class="Underline">Robertson, 6-15-11, Matthew, Epoch Times, “Wolf’s Clause Imperils (Some of) Administration’s China Plans,” http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/united-states/bill-keeps-nasa-technology-out-of-china-57689.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON—Two Chinese journalists... programs with China.</span>


<span class="Underline">The Wolf Clause is an extension of the outdated Cold War mentality of China- all trends point towards peaceful development, the Clause threatens to derail the most significant area of US-Sino relations</span>
<span class="Underline">Xinhua, 5-18, “'Wolf Clause' betrays China-US cooperation,” http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/us/2011-05/18/content_12531720.htm, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The bill included... in the world.</span>


<span class="Underline">Obama advocated US-China efforts in colonization and debris tracking- the Wolf Clause prevents cooperation and jeopardizes the project- the US can’t do it alone</span>
<span class="Underline">Svitak, Space News, 5/4/11 (Amy, Space News staff writer, “China Viewed as Potential U.S. Partner in Future Mars Exploration”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html, accessed 7/1/11) EK</span>

<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON — U.S. President Barack... and with others.”</span>


<span class="Underline">China has empirically sought to be peaceful towards other nations- it wishes to have an unprovocative military policy</span>
<span class="Underline">Yunzhu, 2005, Yao, Senior Colonel, PhD, Director of the Asia-Pacific Office, Department of World Military Studies, Academy of Military Science, People’s Liberation Army, China. This paper was originally prepared for the U.S.-China Strategic Dialogue on August 1-3, 2005 in Honolulu, Hawaii, sponsored by the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Contemporary Conflict (CCC) and the Pacific Forum CSIS. “ Chinese Nuclear Policy and the Future of Minimum Deterrence,” http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/publications/OnlineJournal/2005/Sep/yaoSep05.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">It can be... against nuclear weapons.</span>


<span class="Underline">Even the DoD admits China is an inherently peaceful-prone nation</span>
<span class="Underline">Department of Defense, 2011, “ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China 2011,” http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/2011_CMPR_Final.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">China’s current strategy... not stand out.</span>


<span class="Underline">Hu Jintao is attempting to keep the PLA from gaining conservative support and starting and aggressive military doctrine in space- only US concessions can give him political leverage</span>
<span class="Underline">Thompson, 1-17-11, Drew, director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center. “Hu's Really in Control in China?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/17/hu_s_really_in_control_in_china, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Meanwhile, Hu's upcoming visit... using the term.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-Sino military relations are falling apart now- China is being forced to advance space weaponization to keep up with the arms race- this ensures containment will fail</span>
<span class="Underline">Neil, 1-11-11, Alexander, head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute, “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-12154991, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Beneath the veneer... mistrust in the region.</span>


<span class="Underline">China doesn’t see US deterrence as credible- continued US aggression promotes a zero sum power competition that we will lose</span>
<span class="Underline">Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Does America remain... United States and China.</span>


<span class="Underline">Subpoint B- the impacts-</span>

<span class="Underline">Even if China can’t beat us militarily, the perception of vulnerability promotes bellicose hypernatonationalism that escalates</span>
<span class="Underline">Feaver, 1-21-11, Peter, Foreign Policy, “Chinese regime scared of banality,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/01/21/chinese_regime_scared_of_banality, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">But this short... the past year.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China tit-for-tat escalation forces them to engage missile buildup- this draws in other states and collapses missile treaties- any state could tip this balance into total war</span>
<span class="Underline">Stokes and Blumenthal, 2011, January, Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “Can a treaty contain China's missiles?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123104108.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">With the New START... to nuclear stability.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space arms race creates a doctrine of pre-emptive war- countries will be pressured into conflict regardless of rational checks</span>
<span class="Underline">Mitchell, et al 01 – has been published in journals such as The Bulletin of Atomic Sciences; The Quarterly Journal of Speech; Science, Technology, and Human Values; and Argumentation and Advocacy. Author at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. Research associate (2002-2006) and deputy director (2007-2008) of the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies at the University of Pittsburgh, he convened working groups such as the Working Group on Preemptive and Preventive Military Intervention, supported Ridgway Center programming, and supervised Security Sweep, Ridgway's weblog (hosted jointly with the Ford Institute for Human Security). Winner of the James A. Winans-Herbert A. Wichelns Memorial Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Rhetoric and Public Address from the National Communication. (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A buildup of space... military conflict ever seen.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China war goes global- self-defense by China provokes international intervention and economic linkages draw in the entire world</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, American Military University 2009 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">A war between China,... considered in this study.</span>


<span class="Underline">It outweighs on timeframe- quick action key or conflict is inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Scissors, 1-19-11, Derek, fellow in the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation, “The Year of Opportunity,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/19/the_year_of_opportunity?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese President Hu Jintao's... for U.S.-China relations.</span>


<span class="Underline">Subpoint C- Solvency</span>

<span class="Underline">Engaging China in space removes the incentive for aggression- solves both sides of the arms race</span>
<span class="Underline">DeGroot, 8-25-11, Gerard, author of 'The Dark Side of the Moon’, writes for The Telegraph, “As China gazes upwards, watch this space,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Ever since the first... treated like one.</span>


<span class="Underline">Cooperation prevents aggressive unilateralism by either side and prevents a space race</span>
<span class="Underline">Mindell et al ’08 – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">As China enters... United States and China.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space cooperation prevents miscalc</span>
<span class="Underline">Alanna Krolikowski, Visiting scholar, Space Policy Institute, The George Washington University PhD candidate, University of Toronto, 5/11/2011, “China’s Civil and Commercial Space Activities and their Implications”, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/11_05_11_krolikowski_testimony.</span>

<span class="Underline">China is one of... valuable in a crisis.</span>


<span class="Underline">China is able to cooperate and they’ll say yes</span>
<span class="Underline">Jeffrey Logan, Specialist in Energy Policy- Resources, Science, and Industry Division, CRS Report for Congress, “China’s Space Program: Options for U.S.-China Cooperation”, 9/29/2008, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22777.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">Benefits of Cooperating...technology out of China.</span>


<span class="Underline">Long term relations are sustainable in every other arena- space competition is the only place for deterioration</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, KHaze)</span>

<span class="Underline">On the surface,... realm is outer space.</span>


==Add Ons== 
===Mars=== 
====Asteroids==== 
<span class="Underline">Mars colonization solves asteroid strike—the impact is extinction from collision or nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Siegfried 2003 (W.H., executive for The Boeing Company, Integrated Defense System, “Space Colonization – Benefits for the World”, [[http://www.aiaa.org/participate/uploads/acf628b.pdf]])</span>

<span class="Underline">Over the last decade… into the high frontier.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Bostrom</span>==== 
=====<span class="Underline">2AC</span>===== 
Every second of delayed colonization kills 10^29 beings
Bostrum, 2002 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html, KHaze

As I write these words,… level of utilitarian payoff.


=====<span class="Underline">1AR</span>===== 
Timeframe is irrelevant- large payoff of advancements dwarfs short term impacts
Bostrum, 2002 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html, KHaze

In light of the… “Minimize existential risk!”.


Even if short-term extinction comes first a 1% risk of solving colonization outweighs
Bostrum, 2002 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html, KHaze

The argument above presupposes… prospects of success.



====Extinction==== 
Extinction inevitable if we don’t colonize space
Austen, 3-16-11, Ben, Popular Science, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1

Earth won’t always be fit… off the Earth than on it.”


====<span class="Underline">Water Wars</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">The plan causes spinoff tech which solves water scarcity</span>
<span class="Underline">Rampelotto 11 - Department of Biology, Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Brazil. (Pabula Henrique, “Why Send Humans to Mars? Looking Beyond Science” http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars151.html</span>

<span class="Underline">The engineering challenges… resources on Earth.</span>


<span class="Underline">Water scarcity threatens extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">NASCA 04 [“Water shortages – only a matter of time,” National Association for Scientific and Cultural Appreciation, http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html]</span>

<span class="Underline">Water is one of… no obvious answer.</span>



===Colonization=== 
<span class="Underline">China co-op key to space colonization- sharing new thrust system</span>
<span class="Underline">Hambling, 2008, David, Wired, “Chinese Say They’re Building ‘Impossible’ Space Drive,” http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/09/chinese-buildin/, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese researchers claim they’ve… age of steam.</span>


<span class="Underline">Extinction inevitable without space colonization- solves all wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Collins and Autino 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

<span class="Underline">The major source of… to the general public.</span>


===Concessions=== 
====Human Rights==== 
**China will make human rights concessions to prevent backlash to the plan**
**Faith, 2006,** G. Ryan, research analyst at the space foundation. Prior to that, he was a program manager for space initiatives at CSIS. “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration,” [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]], KHaze

The ISS program,... of cooperation is valued.


**Human rights outweigh every impact**
**Shattuck 94** - Former Assistant Secretary of State (John, 9-12-1994, Federal News Service, lexis)

On the disintegration side,... nightmares of Eastern Europe.



===Executive Power=== 
====Democracy==== 
Plan sets a precedent for executive power
Abrams, 11-3-11, Stan, Business Insider, “Shenzhou Shenanigans: U.S. Tech Transfer Paranoia and China’s Space Program,” http://www.chinahearsay.com/shenzhou-shenanigans-u-s-tech-transfer-paranoia-and-chinas-space-program/#ixzz1dDfMl3qO, KHaze

Last month, the US… in this case.


Unchecked legislature causes instability and oppression
Yoo, 2009, John, Professor of Law, UC Berkeley School of Law; Visiting Scholar, American Enterprise Institute. “Review: Unitary, Executive, or Both?” Lexis, KHaze

The framing generation… to a "Thermidorian" reaction. 197


That’s comparatively the biggest impact
Carl Boggs, National University, 1997, Theory and Society, December, Volume 26, Number 6, p. 773-4

The decline of the… vanished from civil society.

===ASATs=== 
====Russia==== 
ASAT deployment leads to US Russia pre-emptive strikes- escalates to war
Michael Krepon, co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, formerly worked at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency during the Carter administration, MA - School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins U, Prof. Politics at U of Virginia, "Weapons in the Heavens: A Radical and Reckless Option," November, 2004, Arms Control Today, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2004_11/Krepon

To prevent adversaries… attacks on nuclear forces.


Extinction.
Nick Bostrom, Ph.D. Philosophy at Oxford, Journal of Evolution and Technology, 2002, Vol. 9, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html

A much greater existential risk… encounter in the 21st century.


===Cooperation=== 
====Space Diplomacy==== 
China increasing global space science cooperation- cooperating with them gives the US access to their alliances
Sharma, 1-3-12, Yojana, University World News, “CHINA: Space ambitions boost research cooperation,” http://www.universityworldnews.com/article.php?story=20120103103345841, KHaze

China will boost… with developed countries". 


===Relations=== 
====Asia War==== 
<span class="Underline">Tensions over China’s rise cause Asian arms race and war</span>
<span class="Underline">Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">How are China’s Asian… deterrence or counterbalancing capability.</span>



<span class="Underline">Asian wars go nuclear</span>
<span class="Underline">Toshimaru Ogura, Professor of Economics at Toyama University, and Ingyu Oh, Professor of Political Economy at Waikato University, 1997 (http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n11_v48/ai_19693242/pg_8)</span>

<span class="Underline">North Korea, South Korea,… into a global conflagration</span>

====Bird Flu==== 
<span class="Underline">US-China relations key to solve bird flu</span>
<span class="Underline">Asia Pulse, November 21, 2005 Monday</span>

<span class="Underline">China and the US… outbreak of bird flu.</span>


<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">[Ethne Barnes, Research Assistant in Paleopathology, Wichita State, 2005, Diseases and human evolution, p. 427-8]</span>

<span class="Underline">Human history is… days or weeks.</span>

====Cyber Attacks==== 
Relations solve cyber attacks
Segal, 2012, March/April issue of Foreign Affairs, Adam, Ira A. Lipman Senior Fellow for Counterterrorism and National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations “Chinese Computer Games,” KHaze

The United States should also… an international outlier.


====Economy==== 
<span class="Underline">US-Sino relations key to the economy</span>
<span class="Underline">Clinton, 2011, November issue of Foreign Policy magazine, Hilary, Secretary of State, “America's Pacific Century,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/11/americas_pacific_century?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">On the economic front,… and broader prosperity.</span>


<span class="Underline">US/China relations key to the global economy</span>
<span class="Underline">US Department of State, September 16, 2005 [“Treasury's Adams Says U.S.-China Relations Shape Global Growth,” http://usinfo.state.gov/eap/Archive/2005/Sep/16-200238.html]</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States and China… addressing global economic imbalances."</span>


<span class="Underline">Economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support</span>
<span class="Underline">Royal, 2010, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span class="Underline">Less intuitive is how periods… ancillary to those views.</span>


====Heg==== 
US- China arms race destroys our military influence
Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze

Does America remain… the next several decades.


<span class="Underline">US-China relations key to hegemony</span>
<span class="Underline">Maurice R. Greenberg, chairman and CEO of C. V. Starr & Co., The National Interest, Winter 2005/06</span>
<span class="Underline">"On Leadership"</span>

<span class="Underline">American business leaders… a global marketplace.</span>


<span class="Underline">Heg solves all wars and an alternative is impossible</span>
<span class="Underline">Kagan, 7 (senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">Nationalism in all… of world war</span>


====Pakistan/India==== 
US-China relations essential to Pakistan stability- foreign aid, pressure to hunt extremists, training, reconciliation with India
Kan, 2010, Shirley A., Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, “U.S.-China Counterterrorism Cooperation: Issues for U.S. Policy,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/terror/RL33001.pdf, KHaze

In addition to concerns… House Armed Services Committee. 


====Prolif==== 
<span class="Underline">US-China relations key to solve Iran, North Korea prolif</span>
<span class="Underline">Eisenstein 11, J.D. Candidate, 2011, The George Washington University Law School; B.A., 2008, Northwestern University (Free Trade, Tires, and Tariffs: Why Imposing Import Duties Against Chinese goods is the Wrong Course of Action for the United States, The Federal Circuit Bar Journal, 20 Fed. Cir. B.J. 305), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Outside of global economic… cooperation on all fronts.</span>


Iran and North Korean prolif causes extinction- comparatively biggest risk
Miller, 10-17-11, Paul, assistant professor of international security studies at the National Defense University. Prior to stepping behind a lectern, he served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from September 2007 to September 2009. Before working as a policymaker, he previously served as a political analyst in the U.S. intelligence community, specializing in South Asia. He also serves as an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and was deployed to Afghanistan in 2002. “This is no time to cut defense,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/17/this_is_no_time_to_cut_defense, KHaze

The threats are equally apocalyptic… avert disaster this time.


<span class="Underline">Iranian prolif causes nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Rubin ‘9 (Barry, Prof @ the Interdisciplinary Center, Director of the Global Research in International Affairs, Research Director of the IDC's Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy, and Strategy, “What if Iran gets a working nuclear weapon? How Middle East crisis would hit U.S.,” http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/2009/03/09/2009-03-09_what_if_iran_gets_a_working_nuclear_weap.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">If and when Iran… in the first place</span>


<span class="Underline">North Korean prolif outweighs- causes every impact</span>
<span class="Underline">Hayes and Hamel-Green 9 (Peter, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne; and Director, Nautilus Institute, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, “The path not taken, the way still open: Denuclearizing the Korean peninsula and Northeast Asia”, http://gc.nautilus.org/Nautilus/australia/apsnet/reports/2009/hayes-hamel-green.pdf, AV)</span>

<span class="Underline">The consequences of… American nuclear hegemony.”</span>


====Terrorism==== 

<span class="Underline">Relations solve terrorism</span>
<span class="Underline">Wu Xinbo, Professor, Center for American Studies, Fudan University, Shanghai, 2004</span>
<span class="Underline">(“The Promise and Limitations of a Sino-US Partnership,” The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 27, No. 4)</span>

<span class="Underline">The primary perceived… negative to positive.</span>


<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Mohammed Sid-Ahmed, Political analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper for more than 20 years and author of several books on Middle East issues, 8-1-04 [http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>

<span class="Underline">A nuclear attack by terrorists… we will all be losers.</span>

====Trade==== 
<span class="Underline">US-Sino cooperation is key to global free trade</span>
<span class="Underline">Economy and Segal ‘03 [Elizabeth and Adam, director of Asia studies and senior fellow for China studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, The Baltimore Sun 12/11/03]</span>

<span class="Underline">In critical respects,… global free trade regime.</span>


<span class="Underline">Trade solves nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Copley News Service December 1, 1999, Wednesday</span>

<span class="Underline">Activists protesting the… be celebrating it.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Warming</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">China relations solve warming</span>
<span class="Underline">Eisenstein 11, J.D. Candidate, 2011, The George Washington University Law School; B.A., 2008, Northwestern University (Free Trade, Tires, and Tariffs: Why Imposing Import Duties Against Chinese goods is the Wrong Course of Action for the United States, The Federal Circuit Bar Journal, 20 Fed. Cir. B.J. 305), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Security interests are… in serious jeopardy.</span>


<span class="Underline">Warming magnifies every impact and causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Burke '8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)</span>

<span class="Underline">At the same time,… compromise agricultural productivity.</span>




==<span class="Underline">Case</span>== 
===Inherency=== 
<span class="Underline">The Wolf Clause will continue- Obama knows a veto would endanger budget deals and Wolf won’t back down</span>
<span class="Underline">Robertson, 6-15-11, Matthew, Epoch Times, “Wolf’s Clause Imperils (Some of) Administration’s China Plans,” http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/united-states/bill-keeps-nasa-technology-out-of-china-57689.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">To stay as law… whom into what?”</span>


==<span class="Underline">Topicality</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Resolved</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">“Resolved” isn’t in the resolution</span>
<span class="Underline">DOD 6 – US Department of Defense (6/28, The Colon, http://64.233.167.104/search?q=cache:CRkgc8Pi1TsJ:www.dod.state.hi.us/HIARNG/298rti/298rti/l230is_app_d.pdf, AG)</span>

<span class="Underline">The colon introduces the following: [continues] g. A formal resolution, after the word "resolved:" Resolved: (colon) That this council petition the mayor.</span>


<span class="Underline">Resolved means express support for by vote</span>
<span class="Underline">Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998 (dictionary.com)</span>

<span class="Underline">Resolved:</span>
<span class="Underline">5. To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>



===<span class="Underline">Its</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Its means associated with</span>
<span class="Underline">Macmillan Dictionary, No Date –(“Its” http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/american/its)</span>

<span class="Underline">Its is the possessive form of it.</span>
<span class="Underline">1 belonging or relating to a thing, idea, place, animal, etc. when it has already been mentioned or when it is obvious which one you are referring to</span>


<span class="Underline">No Aff is topical- every space project requires international or private co-op</span>
<span class="Underline">Mahoney, 2010, served as a spaceflight instructor at the Johnson Space Center and is now a freelance writer, 10 (March 29, Bob, “Prognosticating NASA’s future”, “The Space Review”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1594/1)</span>

<span class="Underline">Keep in mind, however,… components of the ISS.</span>


<span class="Underline">Co-operation is crucial to our most important space projects- ISS and Outer Space Treaty prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Mahoney 2010, served as a spaceflight instructor at the Johnson Space Center and is now a freelance writer, (March 29, Bob, “Prognosticating NASA’s future”, “The Space Review”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1594/1)</span>

<span class="Underline">The fact that the… orbiting research facility.</span>



===<span class="Underline">Development</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Development includes bilateral cooperation- international definition</span>
<span class="Underline">Vuillemot 01- Aerospace Engineering, Masters of Science Computational Fluid Dynamics, Research Assistant; Professor Uri Shumlak • NASA Graduate Fellow, Masters of Science Technical Japanese (Ward W., “Japan’s Space Development: Past, Present, and Future”, http://web.mac.com/wwv/docs/japanese.space.development.pdf), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">To begin, we… the world’s societies.</span>


====<span class="Underline">AT: T Human... *sigh*</span>==== 

**Go away**
[[judgephilosophies/Hamrick, Kevin|http://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Hamrick%2C+Kevin]]

"I think the argument... is fundamentally unpersuasive."


Counter interp- Space exploration includes telepresence and operation – human presence isn’t necessary
Lester 9 –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)

What to do?... a particularly relevant distinction.


===<span class="Underline">Exploration</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Exploration is international co-operation in space- ESA definition</span>
<span class="Underline">Messina, 2007, ESA Directorate of Human Spaceflight, Microgravity & Exploration [Piero, 5-30-7, ESA Portal, “Key meeting on long-term space exploration”, http://www.esa.int/esaCP/SEMARH9RR1F_index_0.html, accessed 6-30-11]</span>

<span class="Underline">Space exploration is... international cooperation approach.</span>



===<span class="Underline">Increase</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Counter interp- increase means removing a legal barrier to an increase</span>
<span class="Underline">Ripple, 87 (Circuit Judge, Emmlee K. Cameron, Plaintiff-Appellant, v. Frances Slocum Bank & Trust Company, State Automobile Insurance Association, and Glassley Agency of Whitley, Indiana, Defendants-Appellees, 824 F.2d 570; 1987 U.S. App. LEXIS 9816, 9/24, lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">Also related to… incurred the loss.</span>


===Substantial=== 
Substantially doesn’t mandate a percentage
MacMillan Dictionary, 10 (Macmillan English Dictionary - a free English dictionary online with thesaurus and with pronunciation from Macmillan Publishers Limited, http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/american/substantially)


Substantially 1 by a large… the two companies.


Development is a substantial aspect of space development
Moskowitz, Space.com senior writer, 10
[Clara, 4-29-10, Space.com, "Future Space Exploration Hinges on International Cooperation, Astronauts Say," http://www.space.com/8297-future-space-exploration-hinges-international-cooperation-astronauts.html, accessed 7-10-11]

The final frontier… he said through a translator.


===Standards=== 
<span class="Underline">Predictability outweighs their impact- key to education and fair ground</span>
<span class="Underline">Bradley Shannon, 2002, law at University of Idaho, January (Washington Law Review, 77 Wash. L. Rev. 65)</span>

<span class="Underline">The first answer… of the law.</span>


==<span class="Underline">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Framework</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Education</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Discussing the merits of the plan is key to substantive education</span>
<span class="Underline">McClean 2001, David E, Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm</span>

<span class="Underline">There is a lot of… so-called "managerial class."</span>

====<span class="Underline">Reformism</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Even if our mechanism is corrupt we can still take actions to fix problems- rejecting our 1AC for a bad system only excuses violence and turns the alt</span>
<span class="Underline">Cole, 3-27-11, Juan, American scholar, public intellectual, and historian of the modern Middle East and South Asia. He is Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. “An Open Letter to the Left on Libya,”, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I would like… their individual leaders.</span>


====Representations Bad==== 
<span class="Underline">Criticisms of IR fail to imagine an alternative view of the Other- this prevents any good action</span>
<span class="Underline">Morten Valbjørn, PhD in the Department of Political Science @ Aarhus, ‘4 [Middle East and Palestine: Global Politics and Regional Conflict, “Culture Blind and Culture Blinded: Images of Middle Eastern Conflicts in International Relations,” p. 67-8]]</span>

<span class="Underline">As mentioned before, the relational… offering attractive answers.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Vague Alts Bad</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Vague alts undermine concrete change- IL turns the alt</span>
<span class="Underline">Yglesias, 9-29-11, Matt, Staff Writer, the American Prospect, “Protests Work Better With Specific Demands,” http://thinkprogress.org/yglesias/2011/09/29/330909/protests-work-better-with-specific-demands/, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I’ve gotten emails this week… would constitute justice.</span>


====<span class="Underline">AT: Plan Isn't Real/Fiat illusory/Roleplaying</span>==== 
Imaging government action is key to dignity and activism- ties us to others and makes us work to prevent attrocities
Nozick, 1990, Robert, Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, “The Examined Life”, p.286-289, KHaze

We want our individual lives… silence would then speak for us.


====AT: Value To Life==== 
Value to life claims have no impact and destroy individual autonomy
Schwartz, Medical Ethicist, 2004 ("A Value to Life: Who Decides and How?," http://www.fleshandbones.coni/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf)

Hence, quality of life is difficult… to remember the subjectivity 


===<span class="Underline">Death Bad</span>=== 
Life has intrinsic and objective value achieved through subjective pleasures---its preservation should be an a priori goal
Amien Kacou 2008, WHY EVEN MIND? On The A Priori Value Of “Life”, Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy, Vol 4, No 1-2 (2008) cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/92/184

Furthermore, that manner of… be a bit more complex.



This is true at a fundamental and ontological level
Paterson 2003 Craig, Department of Philosophy, Providence College, Rhode Island “A Life Not Worth Living?”, Studies in Christian Ethics, http://sce.sagepub.com

Contrary to those accounts,… of all human possibility.82 



===Particular Good=== 
Particular demands are key to social change.
Laclau 2006, Ernesto, Professor of Political Theory “Why Constructing a People is the Main Task of Radical Politics”, http://cmsorg.wikispaces.com/file/view/ELaclauConstructingPeople.pdf

Zˇizˇek’s two objections have… that sustains that literality. 


===<span class="Underline">Scenarios Good</span>=== 
Scenario evaluation is key to ethics and prevents violence
Williams 5, Michael, professor of philosophy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations,” page 165-7, http://books.google.com/books?id=_O5VSrfuoU0C&printsec=frontcover&dq=he+Realist+Tradition+and+the+Limits+of+International+Relations&hl=en&ei=kV67Tfe0MsjcgQfeh4m_BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=Moreover%2C%20the%20links&f=false

Moreover, the links… same old dichotomies.


===<span class="Underline">Anti-Progressivism</span>=== 
Postmodernist obsessions with “truth” obscure reason and destroy the capacity for effective action- this spills over to destroy all forms of political gains by the marginalized
Wolin, 2004, Richard, B.A. from Reed College, and an M.A. and Ph.D. from York University in Toronto and has held faculty positions at Reed College and Rice University where he was D.D. McMurtry Professor of History. Wolin is on several editorial review boards and has received grants and awards from the German Marshall Fund, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. “The Seduction of Unreason,” p. xiv-xv, KHaze

The critique of postmodernism… abandoning progressive politics altogether.


===<span class="Underline">Capitalism</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Link</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">China threat paranoia reinforces Capitalist market competition</span>
<span class="Underline">Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">That China constitutes… at the United States.1</span>


====Alt==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative ensures extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rockwell, 6 (chairman of the Ludwig von Mises Institute. Formerly served as Ron Paul's congressional chief of staff. Adjunct scholar with the Mackinac Center for Public Policy (Llewellyn, “Why They Attack Capitalism,” October 2002, http://mises.org/freemarket_detail.aspx?control=418)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If you think about it,… Our lives depend on it.</span>



The alt causes transition wars that go nuclear

Pritchard and Taylor, 1978 (Colin, Director of Social Work Studies, University of Bath, Richard K. S., the Department of Adult and Continuing Education, Social Work: Reform or Revolution, pg. 105-106)



In our context the… in ‘politically sensitive’ areas.





Cap solves war

Bandow 5 (Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Spreading Capitalism Is Good for Peace, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5193)



In a world that… is good for peace


Their alt fails - can't achieve the end of capitalism through ideological critique
Cleaver, Zero (Associate Professor of Economics - University of Texas
http://www.eco.utexas.edu/%7Ehmcleave/rcp1.html)

The flaw that lies at the… working-class victory (revolutionary defeat of capital).


Otherization of China pollutes "liberal" movements to see it as anti-Western makes capital influence inevitable
<span class="Underline">Chengxin Pan, Lecturer in International Relations at Deakin University, PhD in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2004 (“Discourses of ‘China’ in International Relations,” Doctoral Thesis for the Australian National Unviersity)</span>

<span class="Underline">As noted earlier,… that they satisfied.122</span>


====Impact==== 
Cap isn’t the root cause of war
MacKenzie, economics prof, 3—prof of economics at Coast Guard Academy. Former prof of economics at Kean. BA in Economics and Management Science at Kean. MA in Economics from U Connecticut. PhD in economics from George mason (DW, “Does Capitalism Require War?,” 7 April 2003, http://mises.org/story/1201)

Perhaps the oddest… reason to think otherwise.


===Disaster Porn/Fear of Death=== 
The Aff is the only example of moderate guilt- the alternative ensures destruction and loss of engagement with the other
Bruckner ’86 (Pascal, Associate professor, Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris) The Tears of the White Man, p.161-164

Third-Worldism constantly confuses… of its own relationships.


No impact and turn- even the illusion of the plan is comparatively better than any other option.
Bruckner ’86 (Pascal, Associate professor, Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris) The Tears of the White Man, p.171-172

The very failure of travel… is it a prayer. It is a call. 



===Fem IR=== 
<span class="Underline">State action key to solves violent repression of the alt</span>
<span class="Underline">LIND 5 (Michael, Executive Editor of the National Interest, “Of Arms and the Woman,” Jan 20, http://feminism.eserver.org/of-arms-and-the-woman.txt)</span>

<span class="Underline">The first thing that must… mass slaughter--and mass rape, too.)</span>


Reforming the system internally doesn’t continue it- realist change is key to their critical act
MURIELLE COZETTE* BA (Hons) (Sciences Po Paris), MA (King's College London), MA (Sciences Po Paris), PhD (LSE) is a John Vincent Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of International Relations. Review of International Studies (2008), 34, 5–27

This article concentrates on… powers-that-be.



Lack of political action fractures feminist resistance
Peterson, pol sci prof, 4—associate professor in the Department of Political Science with courtesy appointments in Women’s Studies, Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies, and International Studies at the University of Arizona (V Spike, Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR, Winter/Spring 2004, [[http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Peterson.pdf]]), KHaze

I have already noted… to activist engagements.



===<span class="Underline">Heidegger</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Critique of tech kills billions</span>
<span class="Underline">RAMAN 2009 (Varadaraja, Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Physics and Mathematics from the University of Calcutta before doing his doctoral work on the foundations of quantum mechanics at the University of Paris Global Spiral, Feb 6, http://www.metanexus.net/Magazine/ArticleDetail/tabid/68/id/10697/Default.aspx)</span>

<span class="Underline">Science is in a similar… like mere noises.</span>


<span class="Underline">Action and reflection on consequences of that action are compatible.</span>
<span class="Underline">Padrutt, 92 – Psychiatrist and President of the Daseinsanalyse Gesellschaft – 1992 (Hanspeter Padrutt, Heidegger and the Earth, “Heidegger and Ecology,” ed. LaDelle McWhorter, P.31)</span>

<span class="Underline">Once in a while… – that also has consequences.</span>


Pragmatic political action to prevent nuclear war is a prerequisite to ontological investigations
Santoni 85 - Maria Theresa Barney Chair Emeritus of Philosophy at Denison University (Ronald, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives” p 156-157)

To be sure, Fox sees the… arbiter of our planet’s fate. 


Critiquing technology kills billions of people—the environmental crisis is real, but we need more technology, not less—transhumanism breaks all the limits to a new ecologically healthy world
Bostrom 3 PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2003, “Transhumanism FAQ”, http://www.paulbroman.com/myspace/Transhumanism_FAQ.txt) \

Population increase is an… could scarcely dream of.



===<span class="Underline">Orientalism</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Orientalism does not invalidate our truth claims</span>
<span class="Underline">Jaffe 08 Georgetown University, Ph.D. in government, Brown University, A.B. in political science, highest honors (Jacob Jaffe “Critique of Said's Orientalism and Lockman's Contending Visions of the Middle East” 2008 http://www.jacobjaffe.com/1index.htm)</span>

<span class="Underline">In his introduction,… of Orientalist scholarship.</span>


===Pan=== 
Predicting Chinese space actions good- the alternative causes miscalc
Cheng, 8-16-11, Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning, KHaze

Increase knowledge of… allocate resources to this end.


Our 1AC’s anti-containment discourse decolonizes knowledge production- their alt reproduces overly-simplistic China knowledge
Vukovich, 2010, Fall, Daniel, Ph.D., University of Minnesota Press, “China in Theory: The Orientalist Production of Knowledge in the Global Economy,” Project Muse, KHaze

Having examined some uses of… from theoretical-critique-as-application.



===Securitization=== 
<span class="Underline">Perm solves the link and best protects the individual from danger</span>
<span class="Underline">Lott 4, Anthony, Professor of PoliSci. Creating Insecurity. Page 65-7, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">In this section, I take realism… to render them more coherent.</span>


Security doesn’t deny the possibility of aggressive states- weigh our impacts absent substantive takeouts
Schweller, 96 (Randall, professor of political science at Ohio State, Security Studies, Spring, p. 117-118)

The crucial point… drive the security dilemma.


1% chance we’re right means we outweigh- at worst our intervention only prevents inevitable escalation- the alt produces transition wars
Yoon 03 – Professor of International Relations at Seoul National University; former Foreign Minister of South Korea (Young-Kwan, “Introduction: Power Cycle Theory and the Practice of International Relations”, International Political Science Review 2003; vol. 24; p. 7-8)

In history, the effort to balance… type of international system.


====AT: Self Fulfilling Prophecy==== 
Self-fulfilling prophecy is backwards – failure to express our fears causes them to occur
Macy 95- Joanna Macy, General Systems Scholar and Deep Ecologist, 1995, Ecopsychology

There is also the… to that very fate. 


====AT: Pragmatism==== 
Pragmatism key to solve the link
Pan, your author, 2006, Chengxin, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “Neoconservatism, US–China conflict, and Australia’s ‘great and powerful friends’ dilemma,” JSTOR, KHaze

Certainly, these gestures helped… be influenced and changed. 


===<span class="Underline">Social Justice</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Perm do both- Social expenditures rack up 30x more than normal exploration – it’s possible to do both</span>
<span class="Underline">Dudley-Flores 08 (Marilyn, CEO and Chief Research Scientist, OPS-Alaska, Global Warming, Earthly Disasters, the Moon and Mars: Transfers of Knowledge (TOK) The American Problem, 46th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit 7 - 10 January 2008, Reno, Nevada)</span>

<span class="Underline">Space exploration also… this story fiction (Gangale 2006) 14:</span>


<span class="Underline">Your K logic is circular – questioning the exploration of a different frontier paralyzes action</span>
<span class="Underline">Siegel 08 (Ethan, Astrophysicist, The Value of Space Exploration, http://www.universetoday.com/13600/the-value-of-space-exploration/)</span>

<span class="Underline">This is like… little blue rock.</span>


<span class="Underline">The alternative fails – the utopia envisioned undermines the legitimacy of the social movement</span>
<span class="Underline">Eshun 03 (Kodwo, British writer and theorist. He is currently the course leader of the MA in Aural and Visual Cultures at Goldsmiths College, London., Further Considerations on Afrofuturism, CR: The New Centennial Review, Volume 3, Number 2, Summer 2003, pp. 287-302 (Article))</span>

<span class="Underline">Futurism Fatigue Because… process of building futures.</span>


Space exploration solves social justice
Dudley-Flores and Gangale 07 (Marilyn, CEO/Chief Research Scientist, Thomas, Executive Director, OPS-Alaska, The Globalization of Space – The Astrosociological Approach, AIAA SPACE 2007 Conference & Exposition 18 - 20 September 2007, Long Beach, California)

It is true that we only… hitting the wall before then.


===<span class="Underline">Schmitt</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Cosmopolitanism key to solve violence</span>
<span class="Underline">Brown 07 (Chris Brown Professor of International Relations and Convenor of the International Relations Department at the London School of Economics. Writing in The international political thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror Liberal War and the Crisis of Global Order pg 56-57)</span>

<span class="Underline">The term ‘humanitarian intervention’… of use of force?</span>


<span class="Underline">Cosmopolitanism works in the context of China- empirically proven</span>
<span class="Underline">Chengxin Pan, Lecturer in International Relations at Deakin University, PhD in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2004 (“Discourses of ‘China’ in International Relations,” Doctoral Thesis for the Australian National Unviersity)</span>

<span class="Underline">As noted already,… think differently matter.</span>




==<span class="Underline">Counterplans</span>== 
===China Co-op=== 
====Non-unilateral CP==== 
<span class="Underline">Multilateral talks with China fail- China won’t talk to us</span>
<span class="Underline">Lora Saalman, 2009, Research Assistant Center for Nonproliferation Studies, April 2009, (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, How Chinese Analysts View Arms Control, Disarmament, and Nuclear Deterrence after the Cold War, Occasional Paper No. 15) KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Thus, while China generally advocates… in global disarmament.</span>


====<span class="Underline">ITAR</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">CP links to the net benefit- ITAR is controversial</span>
<span class="Underline">National Defense 9 (An association for the United States government and the defense industry, Defense Industry Hopeful About ITAR Reform: Will Obama Deliver?, 11/12/09, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=4)</span>

<span class="Underline">David J. Berteau, senior adviser… experts, however, remain skeptical.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Space Guard/SSA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Space info doesn’t cause cooperation- other states don’t trust us</span>
<span class="Underline">Brown 2009, Peter J Brown is a satellite journalist from Maine USA. “Beijing wants it both ways in space,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/KB04Ad02.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As for the US… reasons," said Johnson-Freese.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space guard controversial- air force and NASA backlash</span>
<span class="Underline">Bennett, your author, 2010, James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">1. Creation of a Space Guard… of a pro-Space Guard constituency:</span>


===Consult=== 
====General==== 
=====Definitions===== 
<span class="Underline">“Resolved” isn’t in the resolution</span>
<span class="Underline">DOD 6 – US Department of Defense (6/28, The Colon, http://64.233.167.104/search?q=cache:CRkgc8Pi1TsJ:www.dod.state.hi.us/HIARNG/298rti/298rti/l230is_app_d.pdf, AG)</span>

<span class="Underline">The colon introduces the following: [continues] g. A formal resolution, after the word "resolved:" Resolved: (colon) That this council petition the mayor.</span>


Should isn’t mandatory
Taylor and Howard 5 ( Resources for the Future, Partnership to Cut Hunger and Poverty in Africa (Michael and Julie, “Investing in Africa's future: U.S. Agricultural development assistance for Sub-Saharan Africa”, 9/12, http://www.sarpn.org.za/documents/d0001784/5-US-agric_Sept2005_Chap2.pdf)

Other legislated DA earmarks… best of its ability.


Plan doesn’t have to be immediate
Kumamoto 2k (Hiromitsu, and Ernest J. Henley, Professors of Informatics – Kyoto University, “Basic Risk Concepts”, Probablistic Risk Assessment and Management for Engineers and Scientists,
http://media.wiley.com/product_data/excerpt/76/07803601/0780360176.pdf)

Note that the… the reduction list forever.



====Russia==== 
Russia says no-
a. wants to boost their space industry
RIA Novosti, ’11 [30/04/2011, “Putin calls development of space industry Russia's top priority”, http://en.beta.rian.ru/mlitary_news/20110430/163794807.html, SM]

Development and advancement of… the premier added.


b. Russia hates China- encroaches their sphere of influence
Kotkin 9 (Stephen Kotkin is Professor of History and International Affairs at Princeton University written The Unbalanced Triangle What Chinese-Russian Relations Mean for the United States, written in September/October 2009 issue of Foreign Affairs)

The profound asymmetry in… maintain the upper hand.



CP is seen by Russians as a concession to the US- forces politicians to stoke Russian nationalism
Barry 9 – Moscow correspondent for The New York Times (1/12/2009, Ellen, “U.S.-Russia relations at a crossroads; Moscow can elect path of cooperation or one of retrenchment”, The International Herald Tribune, Lexis) MGM

But others see the… expand the definition of treason.


Russian nationalism leads to nuclear war and extinction
Israelyan 98 (Victor was a Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist. The Washington Quarterly, Winter)

The first and by far… fall down together." n12


====Japan==== 
<span class="Underline">Japan says no- doesn’t want US-China space co-op</span>
<span class="Underline">Brown 10 (Peter J. Brown- July 16, 2010- Asian Times- http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LG16Df02.html), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">"In terms of… not prepared to accept.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Doctrinology</span>=== 
====ICBM Turn==== 
Uncertainty of the CP results in the US modernizing 1st strike capabilities- causes US-China miscalc
Stokes and Blumenthal, 2011, January, Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “Can a treaty contain China's missiles?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123104108.html, KHaze

Even absent a ballistic… to nuclear stability.



===<span class="Underline">Process</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Agency Creation</span>==== 
Agency creation links to politics
Xinhua, 1-14-12, “Obama proposes federal government consolidation,” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/video/2012-01/14/c_131359975.htm, KHaze

BEIJING, Jan. 14 (Xinhuanet) -- President Barack Obama… and government bloat.


====<span class="Underline">Delegation</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">President gets the blame—his appointments</span>
<span class="Underline">Shane 95 Dean and Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh (Peter, “Political Accountability in a System of Checks and Balances: The Case of Presidential Review of Rulemaking”, 48 Ark. L. Rev. 161, 1995)</span>

<span class="Underline">The reason for the… "purely executive" establishments.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Recommend</span>==== 
CP doesn’t result in the plan or create Chinese perception of concessions
Foust, 6-27-11, Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the Spacetoday.net web site and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal weblogs, “The national space policy, one year later,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1873/1, KHaze

While panelists discussed details… on a piece of paper.”


====Funding "PIC"==== 
=====Fund Plan With Navy Cuts CP===== 
Navy is on the brink now- BMD deployment means few ships are still left- plan changes that
Christopher P. Cavas, staff writer for DefenseNews, 4 January 2010, “U.S. Navy Juggles Ships To Fill BMD Demands”, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4441026 | Suo

No sooner did the… above his head.



Naval power solves multiple threats for nuclear war
Eaglen and McGrath ‘11
(Mackenzie,- research fellow for national security studies Brian,- retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia “Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy” 5-16 http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy)

Global Implications. Under a scenario… through U.S. ports.”[17]


===Word PIC=== 
====General==== 
<span class="Underline">Word censorship reinforces totalitarianism at the expense of political change</span>
<span class="Underline">Schram, prof social theory and policy @ Bryn Mawr College, ‘95 (Sanford F. Schram, professor of social theory and policy at Bryn Mawr College, 1995, words of welfare: The Poverty of Social Science and the Social Science of Poverty, pg. 20-26 “The sounds of silence…what isolated instances of renaming can accomplish”)</span>

<span class="Underline">The sounds of silence are… help reinforce existing prejudices.</span>




<span class="Underline">Speech suppression fails and re-entrenches discriminatory practices – empirics prove.</span>
<span class="Underline">Nadine Strossen, Prof. Law @ NYU, General Counsel to the ACLU, 1990 (“FRONTIERS OF LEGAL THOUGHT II THE NEW FIRST AMENDMENT: REGULATING RACIST SPEECH ON CAMPUS: A MODEST PROPOSAL?” 1990 Duke L.J. 484)</span>

<span class="Underline">First, there is no persuasive… combating racial discrimination.</span>


====<span class="Underline">"Exploration" = Imperialism</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Ethnic nationalism key to deterrence- solves all wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, May 5, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Kissing Cousins: Nationalism and Realism,” http://irworkshop.sites.yale.edu/sites/default/files/Mearsheimer_IRW.PDF, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Nationalism, as emphasized, allows states… as to the result.”46</span>


<span class="Underline">Space opens the possibility for infinite resources- merely acknowledging this solves the impact of the K</span>
<span class="Underline">Collins and Autino, 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

<span class="Underline">The major source of social… all the resources they need!</span>


==<span class="Underline">Disads</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">China Specific</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Tech Theft</span>==== 
US-Sino military tech transfer now
Yu, 1-11-12, Miles, The Washington Times, “Inside China,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jan/11/inside-china-386919275/, KHaze

China gets high-tech space device… its space-intelligence capabilities.


<span class="Underline">Espionage and tech transfer non-unique – China gets tech now</span>
<span class="Underline">Domme, 2010, Center for Strategic International Studies, Technology and Public Policy Program intern, (Lisa, Center for Strategic International Studies, “Chinese Space Policy: Collaboration or Competition?”, March 23, http://csis.org/blog/chinese-space-policy-collaboration-or-competition) PG</span>

<span class="Underline">General Xu Qiliang, the commander… cooperation with foreign governments.</span>


<span class="Underline">China will get the tech from Europe</span>
<span class="Underline">Pollpeter, 2008, Kevin, Strategic Studies Institute, China Program Manager at Defense Group Inc.’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. Previously, he was a researcher at the Rand Corporation. Mr. Pollpeter is widely published on China national security issues and focuses on the Chinese space program. “BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE: CHINA’S PROGRESS IN SPACE TECHNOLOGY DURING THE TENTH 5-YEAR PLAN AND THE U.S. RESPONSE,” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub852.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">China’s cooperation with the… for U.S. aerospace companies.</span>


<span class="Underline">No impact- US share of space tech has declined- if China wanted tech they’d get it cheaper somewhere else</span>
<span class="Underline">Fuller, 2011, Joseph, founder and President of Futron Corporation, which specializes in innovative business and technology solutions for aerospace, defense, and transportation. He has 20 years of experience with NASA as an aerospace systems engineer, project manager, and senior executive. While at NASA, Mr. Fuller contributed to the Gemini, Apollo, Skylab, Space Shuttle, TIROS/NOAA, and Space Station programs. Mr. Fuller received a Bachelor of Science degree in physics from Texas Southern University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Houston. “The Commercial Space Industry: A Critical Spacepower Consideration,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">From 1999 to 2008, the… international competitors as well.</span>



===Spending=== 
<span class="Underline">Massive government spending inevitable- only Keynesian economics prevent second recession- budget balancing is comparatively worse</span>
<span class="Underline">Macdonald, 8-18-11, James Macdonald is the author of A Free Nation Deep in Debt: The Financial Roots of Democracy. “Life After Debt” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/18/life_after_debt, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">How different it seems… long-term financial promises to voters.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Launches</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">General</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Chinese launches inevitable- takes out the DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Axe, 12-23-10, David, Wired, “China Matches U.S. Space Launches for First Time,” http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/12/china-matches-u-s-space-launches-for-first-time/, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The launch represented… distant runner-up.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Ozone</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Top scholars agree that there is little risk to the ozone</span>
<span class="Underline">Ross and Zittel 7 – Both PhDs Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2007, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html, RISO = Rocket Impacts on Stratospheric Ozone</span>

<span class="Underline">RISO represents but one… for all interested parties.</span>


<span class="Underline">Nitrous oxide collapsing the ozone now</span>
<span class="Underline">Spotts 9 – CSM Science Staff Peter Spotts, Christian Science Staff, 8-27-2009, “The next major threat to the ozone layer: nitrous oxide,” Christian Science Monitor, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2009/0827/the-next-major-threat-to-the-ozone-layer-nitrous-oxide</span>

<span class="Underline">A colorless, sweet-smelling… 1987 Montreal Protocol.</span>


Human effect on the ozone is minimal- can’t solve
Psyorg, 2005, “Ozone hole repair 'could take decades',” http://www.physorg.com/news4533.html, KHaze

Published by the Institute… is a contemporary danger.”




===<span class="Underline">Politics</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">General</span>==== 
=====<span class="Underline">Popular</span>===== 
======<span class="Underline">China Lobby</span>====== 
<span class="Underline">Pro-China lobby loves the plan- they influence key senators and spillover</span>
<span class="Underline">Pomfret, 2010, John, Washington Post, “China's lobbying efforts yield new influence, openness on Capitol Hill,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/01/08/AR2010010803710.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The congressional about-face… their congressional districts."</span>


======<span class="Underline">Co-operation</span>====== 
<span class="Underline">Co-operation popular- contracts and political goodwill- also solves budget hawk fears</span>
<span class="Underline">Rendleman and Faulconer, 2010 James D. and J. Walter (USAF (Ret); is the new business area executive for civilian space at The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL)), " Improving international space cooperation: Considerations for the USA ", 16 July 2010, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964610000640#sec2. 6/22/11. JD</span>

<span class="Underline">International cooperation has… manned US launches.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Winners Win</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Winners win- provides uniqueness and jobs specific</span>
<span class="Underline">Terigopula 11 (Rajiv. Writer for the Harvard Political Review. “President Obama’s Political Capital,” http://hpronline.org/hprgument/president-obamas-political-capital/ , 7-6)</span>

<span class="Underline">Quite frankly, through a… bad thing after all.</span>


<span class="Underline">Winners win—generates capital and wrecks the opposition.</span>
<span class="Underline">LA, 1-26 (Left in Alabama, Newstext, “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win” 2011, lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">Right off the bat,… expressing our frustration.</span>



===Relations=== 
====General==== 
Asian alliances leads to China war and kills the economy
Sheng, 10-18-11, Zhong, People’s Daily, “Goals of US 'Return-to-Asia' strategy questioned,” http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/90780/7620216.html, KHaze

First, it should learn to… appropriate and practical strategy.



====Russia==== 
Russia space cooperation inevitable
Shoumikhin et. al. 2009 (Andrei Shoumikhin, Ph.D., is Senior Analyst at the National Institute for Public Policy. Baker Spring is F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation.” Strategic Nuclear Arms Control for the Protect and Defend Strategy,” 5-4, http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2266.cfm) Bankey

Strategic relations between… to serve Russian interests.[21]



====Japan==== 
US-Sino arms race makes Asian pullout inevitable- cant back up commitments
Twining, 10-14-11, Daniel, senior fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States and a former member of the U.S. State Department's policy planning staff, “Is the Obama administration willing to back up Clinton's talk with action?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/14/debating_the_pacific_century?page=full, KHaze

The harder question is… speeches help, but actions matter more. 


<span class="Underline">US-Japan alliance doesn’t preserve stability- empirics prove</span>
<span class="Underline">DiFilippo, Sociology Prof, @ Lincoln U, 2002 p. 13 (Anthony, The Challenges of the US-Japan Military Arrangement)</span>

<span class="Underline">One thing that has not… the other nuclear powers.</span>


<span class="Underline">Uniqueness overwhelms the link- Tsunami relief efforts strengthened the alliance overwhelmingly</span>
<span class="Underline">Kato, 4-10-11, Yoichi, National Security Correspondent, Asahi, “INTERVIEW/ Wallace Gregson : Japan-U.S. alliance will grow stronger from quake,” http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201104090549.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON--A stronger Japan-U.S…. in Okinawa Prefecture.</span>


===Tradeoff=== 
====NASA==== 
=====General===== 
<span class="Underline">China co-op key to NASA</span>
<span class="Underline">AP, Junior Editor at the Shanghaiist, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">(Tiffany, Shanghaiist, “Three-legged space race for China and US?”, 10/18/10, http://shanghaiist.com/2010/10/18/post_29.php, accessed 7/1/11, CW)</span>

<span class="Underline">NASA head Charles Bolden… US a preening pig?</span>


No political support for large space projects- cuts are inevitable
Foust, 1-16-11, Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the Spacetoday.net web site and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal weblogs. “Big science in an era of tight budgets,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2007/1, KHaze

The affordability of… opponent of the project.



=====Earth Science===== 
<span class="Underline">NASA Earth science cuts now.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dinerman 11, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch, 11 (April 18, Taylor, “NASA’s continuing problems”, “The Space Review”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1824/1)</span>

<span class="Underline">NASA’s $5-billion science… sciences at NASA.</span>


<span class="Underline">NASA data doesn’t solve</span>
<span class="Underline">a. Senate’s stance on climate bills</span>
<span class="Underline">b. Lack of international will</span>
<span class="Underline">c. Poor standards</span>
<span class="Underline">McKibben, 11-22-10, Bill, Foreign Policy, author, environmentalist, and activist. In 1988, he wrote The End of Nature, the first book for a common audience about global warming. He is the co-founder of 350.org, an international climate campaign. “Sipping Margaritas While the Climate Burns,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/22/sipping_margaritas_while_the_climate_burns, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Careful observers may recall… a "collective suicide" pact.</span>