==Contention One: Inherency== 

===Space weaponization and conflict are inevitable - winning the race for dominance is key to US hegemony=== 
**Kitfield 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

In the “commons” __above Earth, … or conflict,"__ the report concluded.


===And, the PERCEPTION of Weaponization is Occuring – Even if Weaponization itself isn’t=== 
**International Business Times News 3/6/2k11**
**(“Space weaponry in focus as US Air Force launches mysterious X-37B robotic plane,” pg lexis//ef)**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Air Force has said … Newport, as saying last year.</span>

===And, the plan will be framed as NMD=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell 2k1</span>**</span>
(Gordon R., PHD, (Assoc. Prof., Communication, Univ. of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pittsburgh) 7/01</span> with Kevin J. Ayotte & David Cram Helwich, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense #6, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html|www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As defense analyst Daniel Gonzales … </span>__military domination of the heavens .__

==PLAN: The United States federal government should deploy a Brilliant Pebbles Ballistic Missile Defense system beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere.== 
==Contention 2: BMD== 
===Space missile defense is key to effective BMD - it’s the only way to counter the nuclear threat from North Korea, Iran, Russia, China, terrorists, and general nuclear proliferation=== 
<span class="Underline">**Pfaltzgraff et al 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, PhD … )</span>

__There is ample reason for …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of actors seeking such power. </span>

**Several scenarios**


**North Korea’s nuclear missiles are a threat**
**Pomfret 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Washington Post Writer Citing Robert Gates, “ Defense secretary Gates says North Korean ballistic missiles pose 'direct threat' to U.S.,” Jan 11, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/11/AR2011011103260.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, EMM) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BEIJING --U.S. Defense Secretary Robert M. </span>__Gates … ballistic missile within five years.__ 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But, in a first for a U.S. senior official, Gates also gave North Korea some concrete suggestions about what the United States wants it to do in order to restart stalled talks over its nuclear weapons program: declare a moratorium on both missile and nuclear tests.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">His blunt comments came after a meeting with Chinese president Hu Jintao, an ally of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il. Earlier Tuesday, China's military staged a test of its new stealth aircraft--an aggressive move that could be interpreted as a snub of both the United States and of China's civilian leadership.</span>
__Stopping North Korea's nuclear program has long been a top goal for the United States, and one that has proved elusive.__
__North Korea has threatened to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at least rudimentary nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"With the North Koreans' continuing development of nuclear weapons and their development of intercontinental ballistic missiles, North Korea is becoming a direct threat to the United States, and we have to take that into account," Gates said.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The defense secretary also said the United States is renewing its efforts to find a way to curtail North Korea's erratic and provocative behavior.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"We consider this a situation of real concern and we think there is some urgency to proceeding down the track of negotiations and engagement," he said.</span>
__Tensions have skyrocketed on the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">two civilians and two soldiers. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Extinction</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Second is Terrorism</span>**

===<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Space missile defense is key to prevent nuclear and bioterrorism</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD … , EMM)</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorism</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the form of limited, low-technology attacks </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is the most likely direct threat against America and its allies today, and space support is enabling the most sophisticated response</span>**ever seen. All-source intelligence has foiled dozens of attacks by al Qaeda</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and its associates. But what of the most dangerous threats today? </span><span class="Underline">[**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WMD</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">] Weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear but also chemical and biological ones, could be delivered in a variety of means vulnerable</span>**to interception if knowledge of their location is achieved in time for counteroperations to be effective. In situations where there is no defense available</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or the need for one has not been anticipated,</span><span class="Underline"> then time is the most precious commodity.**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A limited strike capability from space would allow for the engagement of the highest threat and the most fleeting targets wherever they presented themselves on the globe, regardless of the intention of the perpetrator</span>**. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The case of a ballistic missile carrying nuclear warheads is exemplary. Two decades ago, the most dangerous threat facing America (and the world) was a massive exchange of nuclear warheads that could destroy all life on the planet. Since a perfect defense was not achievable, negotiators agreed to no defense at all, on the assumption that reasonable leaders would restrain themselves from global catastrophe. Today, a massive exchange is less likely than at any period of the Cold War, in part because of significant reductions in the primary nations' nuclear arsenals. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most likely and most dangerous threat comes from a single or limited missile launch</span>**</span>,<span class="Underline"> and from sources that are unlikely to be either rational or predictable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The first is an accidental launch, a threat we avoided making protections against due to the potentially destabilizing effect on the precarious Cold War balance. That an accidental launch, by definition undeterrable, would today hit its target is almost incomprehensible. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More likely</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">than an accidental launch </span><span class="Underline">is the intentional launch of one or a few missiles, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">either by a nonstate actor (a terrorist</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">or "rogue boat captain" as the scenario was described in the early 1980s) </span><span class="Underline">or a rogue state attempting to maximize damage as a prelude to broader conflict.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is especially likely in the underdeveloped theories pertaining to deterring third-party states. The United States can do nothing today to prevent India from launching a nuclear attack against Pakistan (or vice versa) except threaten retaliation. If Iran should launch a nuclear missile at Israel, or in a preemptory strike Israel should attempt the reverse, America and the world could only sit back and watch, hoping that a potentially world-destroying conflict did not spin out of control. </span>
===Nuclear terror means extinction=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9 </span>(Dennis, Professor @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (South Korea, “<span style="color: black;">World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, November, Science Direct)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and suffering in a nuclear winter</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Contention 3: Space Control –== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unfortunately, the U.S. is being left behind – we continue to explain why we ARENT developing Weapons – while countries like Russia and China Develop Weapons Behind Closed Doors</span>=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stone 2k9</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(space strategy planner for the USAF, a former staff member for two US Senators, and Executive Director of a growing Chamber of Commerce, “How should we secure our space-based assets as a nation?,” pg online @ http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1345/1 //ef)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same, </span>__US satellites, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be restored. Or will it? </span>

===The only option is for the US to weaponize space - this is critical to locking Hegemony and Preventing Violent Challenges to the International System – If the U.S. Gets there First, there is zero risk of an arms race or violent transition=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award</span> “<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the context in … </span>__war in space is remote.__

**We’ll isolate multiple other internals**

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a) Weaponization is key to protect space assets that are vital to terrestrial military dominance</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor … , EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">has embarked … inventory of the United States. </span>

===<span style="text-decoration: none;">b) Space weapons are also key to overall US tech leadership - that’s key to heg</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD … , EMM)</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective. This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. </span><span class="Underline">Of course </span>space weapons are<span class="Underline"> expensive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—very expensive,</span><span class="Underline"> though not necessarily more expensive than terrestrially based systems that may accomplish the same objectives</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not to mention objectives that cannot be met otherwise—but </span><span class="Underline">so are all </span>revolutionary technologies<span class="Underline">, particularly those </span>that pioneer a new medium<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Furthermore, </span>the state that achieves cutting-edge military technology first has historically been the recipient of tremendous battlefield advantage,<span class="Underline"> and so pursuit of cut-ting-edge technology continues— despite the enormous cost.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, </span>the cultural and economic infrastructure that allows for<span class="Underline"> and promotes </span>innovation in the highest technologies tends to remain at the forefront of international influence. All empires decline<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and eventually are subsumed, </span>but it has not been their search for the newest technologies<span class="Underline"> or desire to stay at the forefront of innovation that causes their declines. </span>Rather,<span class="Underline"> it has been the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> policies of those states, generally an overexpansion of imperial control or an economic </span>decision to freeze technologies, that result in their<span class="Underline"> stagnation and </span>demise. <span class="Underline">Space and </span>space technology represent<span class="Underline"> both the resources and </span>the innovation that can keep<span class="Underline"> a liberal and responsible </span>American hegemony in place for <span class="Underline">decades, if not </span>centuries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to come; furthermore, </span>unless America maintains this technological edge, it will likely lose its preeminence.

===c) Space ballistic missile defense is vital to ensures diplomatic, deterrent, and flexible capabilities - all key to heg=== 
**Lambakis 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, PhD and Senior Analyst @ National Institute for Public Policy, “ Missile Defense From Space,” Feb 19, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/02/missile_defense_from_space.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, EMM)</span>

__The policy benefits of a space-…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and to participate in operations.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, because no state can have sovereignty over the space above its territory, we could operate up there free of political constraints. The need for negotiating basing rights to locate sensors or interceptor fields would become less pressing.</span>
__Improved system performance would give … the rule of law internationally.__


===And, Failure to Lock-in American Hegemony Guarantees Nuclear Conflict=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gray 2k4</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Colin, Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, and founded of the National Institute for Public Policy, 2K4 “The Sheriff: America’s Defense of the New World Order, pg. 6-10)</span>
__World order__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is neither self-… </span>__m__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ass </span>__d__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">estruction (WMD) at that. </span>

===And, History Can Only Prove Our Argument – Failure to Weaponize makes war inevitable – China will build weapons regardless of U.S. Actions – Don’t Believe the Hype Behind Benevolent Development of Space=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stakelbeck 2k7</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Fred Stakelbeck is a Senior Asia Fellow with Washington-based Center for Security Policy. He is an expert on the economic and national security implications for the U.S. of China's emerging regional and global strategic influence, pg online @ http://archive.frontpagemag.com/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=38 //sdi-ef)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reports last month that </span>__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">of our enemies will grow.</span>**//

===And, China will go after our space weakness=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Choong 2k9</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(William,Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, articles appear in The International Institute of Strategic Studies, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAST month, China lofted a navigational … Soviet Union in 1962 and 1969 respectively.</span>

===U.S. China War Esacalates and Causes Extinction=== 
**Cheong 2k**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ching, , Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” 6/25, pg Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span>__a … see the destruction of civilization.__

==Indo-Pak== 
===A. Space Militarization deters Indo-Pak war and aggression against the U.S.=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Miller 2002 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(John J. Miller is a national political reporter for the National Review and a Bradley fellow at the Heritage Foundation, “Our 'Next Manifest Destiny': America should move to control space -- now, and decisively” pg online @ http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/714383/posts)</span>

That may sound like 21st-… __America and what it values.__

===B. India Pakistan war escalates to extinction.=== 

**Fai 2k1**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council, Washington Times, 7-8)</span>
__The foreign policy of the …__ States would enjoy no sanctuary.
__.__
==Solvency== 


===And, Brilliant Pebbles is a Kinetic Weapon that uses thousands of interceptors to hit its target – its ready and can be deployed – peer review and testing proves=== 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 2k9</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Co-Chaired by Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the Twenty-First Century,” pg online @ </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //ef) </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space-based Kinetic Energy Missile … __made them easy to replace.__</span>


===And, Brilliant Pebbles Tech is ready and can defeat counter-measures – the timeframe for deploying operational tech is 5 years at-most=== 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 2k9</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Co-Chaired by Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the Twenty-First Century,” pg online @ </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //ef) </span>**
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The autonomy of Brilliant Pebbles</span>____<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">were included on the team.</span>

**The Plan Locks-in U.S. Hegemony and ENDS all war and Terrorism – We Solve Every Impact to your Disad**

Dolman 2k3
(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award“SPACE WEAPONS Are They Needed?” pg online @ [[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf]] //sdi-ef)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Simple Space Weaponization Policy </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States and the world.</span>