[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Woodward== 
===Plan Text=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Plan:** The United States Federal Government should develop and launch Space Based Solar Powered Satellites beyond the Earth's mesosphere</span>
===Resource Control=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Oil dependence allows rogue states leverage over U.S. foreign policy and enemies to cherry pick our supply lines**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Parthemore and Nagl 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(*Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security Dr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The growing world demand for petroleum... the attraction of fuel supply lines to opponents.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Oil is the biggest internal link to the economy- empirically proven</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">SAFE 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Securing America`s Future Energy – nonpartisan organization dedicated to reducing America’s dependence on oil by educating policymakers and advocating for comprehensive energy reform. “Oil Dependence: A Threat to U.S. Economic & National Security” [[http://www.secureenergy.org/sites/default/files/155_Briefing-OilDependence.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to the International Energy Agency's... dramatic rise in the price of oil. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">SPS ends US fossil fuel dependence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Bova 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> –award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Once you enter the White House... more away from fossil fuels</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">And the link only goes our way, we’ve passed peak oil which means prices only go up from here, try or die for the aff</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Martenson 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(*Chris Martenson is an economic researcher and futurist, published in the Business Times [</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.businessinsider.com/why-time-is-short-now-that-were-past-peak-oil-2011-5]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, May 27th 2011, published in the business times, “Why Time is Short Now that We’re Past Peak Oil”])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The only thing that could... little time left. Use it wisely.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Specifically – a //__fast and large__// US investment turns the US into a //__net energy exporter__//</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Chapman et al 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– <span style="font-size: 8pt;">geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phil, March, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span></span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The expected cost... import electricity as well as petroleum</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Economic decline causes war – studies prove</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Royal 10</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Less intuitive is how... economic-security debate and deserves more attention</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">SPS is key – reliance on oil causes a vicious cycle of violence and wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Herizons 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [January 1, Herizon’s Newspaper, http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-33712860_ITM] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The U.S. women's anti- war group... to develop a green economy." concludes CODEPINK</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">These wars go global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Schubert 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">–</span> PhD in electrical engineering</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Peter J. Schubert, PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, holds 30 US patents, 8 foreign patents, and has published over 60 technical papers and book chapters, 12-2010, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">For a miracle to occur... of the options favor SSP. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Now is key – the US must develop first to solve energy demands – Japan, China, India, and Russia are on the brink of development </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Shea 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – MA in Public Policy from GWU</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Karen Shea, 12-2010, “Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space solar power technology... that our energy needs are met.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Only the US solves for energy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Davidson 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Compilation of notes from an interview with Gary Spirnak, and Al Globus</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, 5/12/2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spot.us/pitches/445-is-solar-power-from-space-the-next-big-thing-in-green-energy/updates/433-notes-on-my-interview-with-gary-spirnak-ceo-of-solaren-space]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spot.us/pitches/445-is-solar-power-from-space-the-next-big-thing-in-green-energy/updates/433-notes-on-my-interview-with-gary-spirnak-ceo-of-solaren-space|Notes on my interview with Gary Spirnak, CEO of Solaren Space]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">At geostationary orbit, one... 1000 MW plants, and expand. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Only SSP can meet demand rising demand </span>**– **no other technology can come close**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Nansen 10</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Former space engineer</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today we face the compounding problems... make space solar power viable.</span>**

===Hegemony=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Heg declining now, 35 countries challenge U.S position**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 07** </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 90%;">Although the United States remains... scheduled for completion by 2013.14.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Space leadership the backbone of US hegemony and national security** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Stevens 7**</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert J. Stevens – Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, summa cum laude graduate of Slippery Rock University, master's degree in engineering and management from the Polytechnic University of New York, with a Fairchild Fellowship, earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia Business School, graduate of the Department of Defense Systems Management College Program Management, served in the United States Marine Corps, (Lockheed Martin, 4/10/2007, 23rd National Space Symposium, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership”, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/news/speeches/Next50YearsOfUSSpaceLeadership.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I want to thank the organizers... capabilities and India is developing them."</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Hegemony is<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;"> key to prevent great power war</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Zhang* and Shi** 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>**Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) <span style="color: black;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Paul Kennedy was probably right... devoid of unrivaled US policy.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Technological and strategic //__capabilities__// are the //__foundations__// for US space leadership – this is comparatively more likely to produce peace than a “cooperation first” approach**</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Stone 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” </span>http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">When it comes to space exploration... "worthy of a great nation".</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**SSP creates the infrastructure to develop the rest of space**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**<span style="color: black;">Preble, 9 </span>**- </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Chair of the Space Solar Power Workshop (Darel, “Space Solar Power: Star Player on the Bench,” 4/19, The Oil Drum,</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/5306]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Many other space businesses... than from Earth, for example.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Technological development is the key to US hegemony**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Segal 04**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Maurice R. Greenberg Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, “Is America Losing its edge?” Foreign Affairs, November/December 2004)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States' global primacy... technological entrepreneurship at home.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Transition from US dominance causes conflict- perception of weakness empirically spurs war**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Friedberg 2011** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States and the... so often been marked by war. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Heg decline leads to global instability and conflict – empirics prove</span>**
**<span class="Heading3Char" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">Pape 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Robert A., Professor of political science at the University of Chicago (Jan-Feb. 2009, “Empire Falls,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_99/ai_n32148803/?tag=content;col1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> originally from The National Interest)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">All of this has led... merely accelerating our own downfall. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**America will also intervene in world affiars- No uniqueness for impact turns**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Shalmon and Horowitz ’09**</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is important to recognize... given America's role in the global order. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**SSP pilot projects can be up and running within one year**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Costa, 10**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rebecca, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If we took a moment... other energy solution here on earth. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**A U.S. government proof of concept exercise will create incentives for private sector development**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">NSSO, 7 </span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Over the course of the study... energy security begins immediately.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**<span style="color: black;">SSP not vulnerable- space assets are too hard to attack.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">**<span style="color: black;">NSSO, 7 </span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certainly both the rectena and satellite... new infrastructure for their own benefit. </span>


=Negative= 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]