=Russia Relations= 
<span class="Tag">U.S.-Russia relations are high now – New START proves.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="Tag">Rykhtik ’11</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Mikhail Rykhti, international relations at Nizhny Novgorod State University, PONARS Eurasia (George Washington University Elliott School of International Affairs), Memo No. 175, September 2011, Extending the “Reset” in U.S.-Russian Relations]</span></span>
Recently, U.S.-Russia relations have been developing ... These and other developments indicate that US-Russian cooperation is reaching a new plateau.

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="Tag">Unilateral space action kills relations.</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="Tag">Wood ’10</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">[Jason D. Wood, Washington, D.C.-based policy analyst and a member of the 2010 Nuclear Scholars Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Dec. 13, 2010, The U.S.-Russia Space Relationship and Future Space Security, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/7300/the-u-s-russia-space-relationship-and-future-space-security]</span></span>
While much has been said about the overall merits of the New START agreement ... into the fold of responsible, normative behavior in space.

<span class="Tag">This opens up multiple nuclear conflicts</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="TagsChar">Cohen ’10</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Stephen, prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU, Prof emeritus, Princeton, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]</span></span>
Cohen: The real concern I have with this “we won the Cold War” triumphalism is the mythology that ... or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.







=Weaponization= 

US is not weaponizing space now
De Selding2-20-09, Peter B.: Space News Staff Writer [“Pentagon Official: U.S. Is Not Developing Space Weapons,” http://www.space.com/news/090220-pentagon-space-weapons.html]
STRASBOURG, France - The United States is not developing ... that the United States and others have been unable" to produce a treaty.


Plan causes mixed perception about space development – leads to global militarization 
Michelson ’10 – the Roeper School Egypt Representative, Special Political Committee, 10 (Rebecca, 2010, "Peaceful Use of Outer Space", http://www.glica.org/topics/show/78)
In the years following the Cold War-inspired need for outer space domination ... safeguard outer space for peaceful purposes.

Space weaponization kills deterrence and causes nuclear war 
Krepon and Clary 3 – Michael Krepon, served as the president and CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Christopher Clary, Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project at the Stimson Center, April 2, 2003, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space,” Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf
The presumed additional deterrent value of U.S. space weapons ... applause of the choice of weaponry used in preemptive strikes.

Deterrence prevents large scale war - Taiwan, Korea, and Kashmir prove 
Alagappa ‘8 [Muthiah – Distinguished senior fellow at the East-West Center. The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia. Ed. Muthiah Alagappa. p. ]
Nuclear weapons have a low profile in the conflicts across ... significant ways and in essence take large-scale war off the table.