[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
1AC
The Plan: The United States federal government should deploy space-based lasers in low earth orbit beyond the Earth’s mesosphere for the purpose of ballistic missile defense and anti-satellite capability.

<span style="display: block; font-size: 16px; text-align: left;">Contention 1 is hegemony</span>
Weaponization in the status quo is inevitable – 4 reasons:

1. Competition and conflict inevitable – US going first key to dominance
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kitfield 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the “commons” </span><span class="underline">above Earth, US military forces must deal with junk and potential predators. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Last year, an Iridium communications satellite unexpectedly went dead. US military space analysts soon discovered it had smashed into a defunct Russian Cosmos satellite, a collision that destroyed both spacecraft and created a large and dangerous debris field in space. That incident followed another worrisome event. </span><span class="underline">In</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> January </span><span class="underline">2007, </span>China<span class="underline"> successfully </span>tested an <span class="underline">anti-</span>sat<span class="underline">ellite missile</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> against one of its own defunct satellites. That attack, a direct hit, created 150,000 pieces of space clutter—not all of it even visible to US space operators. Both events reveal that </span><span class="underline">the global commons of </span>space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—which the United States has long dominated and has increasingly used as leverage to achieve a decisive military edge—</span>is increasingly<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">crowded and </span>contested<span class="underline">. There have been </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">years of</span><span class="underline"> warnings that </span>US <span class="underline">space </span>dominance is in peril.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> It is now safe to assume that, </span><span class="underline">in a future war, </span>the military will not have unhindered access to<span class="underline"> the </span>space<span class="underline">-based </span>capabilities that create<span class="underline"> numerous US combat </span>advantages<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Potential adversaries aren’t just aware of how heavily the US relies on space. They already have the means to compete and to challenge US operations there. Today, many </span><span class="underline">commanders view space dominance as </span>vital to warfare<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the Information Age. "Certainly in the air world, in the ISR [intelligence-surveillance-reconnaissance] world, and most especially </span><span class="underline">in the space world, [there is] competition out there, [and </span>the] competition is getting better<span class="underline">,"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> said Lt. Gen. Larry D. James, commander of 14th Air Force at Vandenberg AFB, Calif. </span><span class="underline">"</span>Multiple nation-states<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> now </span>have<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> space </span>launch capability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, have </span><span class="underline">ISR capability, [and]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> have </span><span class="underline">intelligence capability from space, so we’ve got to continue to raise our game to make sure we are still the best." </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As a recent report by the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) noted, </span><span class="underline">it is increasingly clear that </span>a military able to<span class="underline"> effectively </span>use space has tremendous advantages through<span class="underline"> rapid globe-spanning </span>communications<span class="underline">, broad and sophisticated </span>surveillance <span class="underline">and </span>intelligence-gathering<span class="underline"> capability, and accurate force positioning, operations timing, </span>and<span class="underline"> precision </span>targeting abilities<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"Put in military terms, </span><span class="underline">the space commons offers distinct and significant advantages in command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (C3ISR), maneuverability, and firepower," noted report author Eric Sterner. </span><span class="underline">"As the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">has been the world’s leading innovator in the use of space for military purposes, this development is largely a story of American innovation." Given the game-changing advantages that the United States reaps from its dominance of space, </span>it was inevitable<span class="underline"> that </span>other countries would<span class="underline"> also </span>seek to exploit space<span class="underline"> for their own uses, both military and commercial.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Today, nine countries, plus the European Space Agency member states, have the ability to independently place satellites into orbit, and virtually any country or nonstate actor can access satellite technology by buying time on commercial satellites. As the US military’s dependence on space systems has grown exponentially in recent years, however, so has a growing sense of unease among military commanders concerned about the vulnerability of those assets. In 2001, </span><span class="underline">the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization released a report that predicted that </span>future warfare in space was <span class="underline">a "virtual </span>certain<span class="underline">ty,"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and it proposed that </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates [</span>should<span class="underline">] begin to develop the means both to deter and defend against attacks on its space assets, and to </span>mount offensive operations<span class="underline"> to deny the use of space to potential adversaries. </span>To do otherwise<span class="underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the commission warned, </span>would invite a "space Pearl Harbor<span class="underline">."</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US officials confirmed in 2006 that </span><span class="underline">China had successfully "painted" a US satellite with a laser. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">China’s January 2007 test of the direct-ascent, anti-satellite SC-19 missile greatly heightened those concerns. </span><span class="underline">And</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a recent Pentagon report on China’s military modernization revealed that </span><span class="underline">China is developing</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> other </span><span class="underline">anti-satellite systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, to include ground-based lasers designed to blind sensitive satellite optics. China is also reportedly developing microsatellites crafted to act as "space mines," which could loiter in space until given the signal to destroy other satellites. At present, US officials say they are uncertain whether China has already launched such "parasite" satellites. "In today’s world, ... there are a lot of folks launching a lot of satellites, some of them very small," and we have a lot of work to do in terms of knowing "what their mission is, ... what the intent of the owner is," and whether they represent a threat, said James. That really gets into the intelligence world more than the tracking world, but, "frankly, we have a long way to go" in achieving that space situational awareness. According to the CNAS report, China has identified American dependence on space as an asymmetric vulnerability to exploit. </span><span class="underline">"China is developing robust capabilities to operate in space and deny its adversaries the use of space during a time of crisis or conflict,"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the report concluded.</span>

2. History proves it’s inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Colonel and PhD in IR, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">It is a </span>rule<span class="underline"> in strategy, one </span>derived<span class="underline"> empirically </span>from<span class="underline"> the evidence of </span>two and a half millennia<span class="underline">, that </span>anything of great strategic importance<span class="underline"> to one belligerent, for that reason </span>has to be worth attacking<span class="underline"> by others</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And </span><span class="underline">the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, disable, capture</span><span class="underline">, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: </span>space warfare is a certainty<span class="underline"> in the future </span>because<span class="underline"> the use of </span>space<span class="underline"> in war </span>has become vital<span class="underline">. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">20 </span><span class="underline">The </span>strategic value of space <span class="underline">to states </span>is not in question<span class="underline">. Advanced </span>spacefaring states are<span class="underline"> already reliant—and </span>moving toward dependence—on space-<span class="underline">derived services </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, </span><span class="underline">the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">21 </span>
3. China, Iran, North Korea cause an arms race
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Spring 5</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Baker, F.M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy in the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies @ Heritage, “ Slipping the Surly Bonds of the Real World: The Unworkable Effort to Prevent the Weaponization of Space,” May 10, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/Slipping-the-Surly-Bonds-of-the-Real-World-The-Unworkable-Effort-to-Prevent-the-Weaponization-of-Space]], EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">If the U.S. is going to make wise decisions about its military policy toward space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and space-based assets and activities, first and foremost </span><span class="underline">that policy must be grounded firmly in reality. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Flawed assess­ments about where the world is today regarding military capabilities in space is all but certain to lead to flawed policies. </span><span class="underline">The starting point is to recognize the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> following five </span><span class="underline">facts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> about military space capabilities today. Fact #1:</span>Space is already weaponized<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As catalogued earlier, </span><span class="underline">the </span>U.S. and other states possess<span class="underline"> a wide array of </span>capabilities to use space to<span class="underline"> defend themselves and </span>mount offensive operations<span class="underline">. No careful parsing of definitions can reverse this reality.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Further, </span><span class="underline">there are good reasons for the U.S. to have weapons in space. Supporting nuclear deterrence, defending valuable-but highly vulnerable-assets in space, countering missile attack, and projecting military power are just a few examples.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Fact #2: </span><span class="underline">The </span>U.S. does not face an either/or choice between reassuring other states of<span class="underline"> its </span>intentions<span class="underline"> in space </span>and<span class="underline"> space </span>dominance<span class="underline">. A principled policy of using U.S. space dominance to ensure freedom of space for peaceful purposes is the better approach</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This approach is the one U.S. policymakers have established through the exercise of naval power on the high seas. </span><span class="underline">The U.S. dominance of the high seas is in fact a source of reassurance to many nations, particularly those using the seas to engage in international commerce. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Fact #3: The morality of weapons in space is derived from the ends for which they are used and how they are used, not their existence. There is nothing immoral about weapons in space. By the same token, U.S. policymakers need to be careful in terms of determining how and for what ends such weapons will be used. My sugges­tion to those concerned about the ramifications of military operations in, around, and through space is to focus on employment policies and not on their current effort to forbid the weapons and their accompanying capabilities. </span><span class="underline">Fact #4: </span>Dissuasion is an option for confronting<span class="underline"> a </span>space arms race<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Both the 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review of the Bush Administration and the 2002 Nuclear Posture Review describe the concept of dissuasion. </span><span class="underline">Dissuasion is a means for avoiding an arms race by </span>convincing<span class="underline"> would-be </span>enemies<span class="underline"> of the U.S. that </span>they have little hope of competing<span class="underline"> effectively </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in such races in important areas. </span><span class="underline">The concept is based on the well-founded assumption that these would-be enemies will engage in an arms race if they conclude they can win it. Given the existing advantages the U.S. has in military space technologies and capabilities, as well as the inherent importance to the military of main­taining access to space and protecting valuable space assets, dissuasion is a concept readily adapt­able to military space. </span>If the<span class="underline"> U.S. </span>military squanders its lead<span class="underline"> in military space capabilities, </span>it will invite the arms race<span class="underline"> that arms control advocates say they wish to avoid. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Fact #5: The spiral development approach to the acquisition of space weapons and other sys­tems can provide future Presidents with viable options for confronting enemy attacks in, through, and around space. Even many of those opposed to the weaponiza­tion of space acknowledge that it is possible that the U.S. and its friends and allies could be subject to space-based attack. They also acknowledge that the U.S., to use Michael Krepon's terminolo­gy, "couldn't allow that to happen." Preventing that from happening means giving future Presi­dents the military tools necessary to respond effectively. The Department of Defense is using the spiral development acquisition process in the drive to obtain these tools. This concept, which seeks to field systems with limited capabilities initially and improve them with upgrades over time, has been used to field missile defense systems in particular. The tool is readily adaptable to space systems but will necessitate a different approach than in the past. Where the U.S. has pursued large, expensive, and vulnerable space platforms, which possess extended life-cycle times, in the past, it will need to look at smaller, cheaper, and more survivable plat­forms in the future. Conclusion Space is a place. It is part of the geographic con­stant with which militaries have had to contend from the dawn of civilization. As with any piece of geography, space possesses unique characteristics that can provide distinct advantages to the military that is able to exploit them. Through its persistence and creativity,</span><span class="underline"> the United States now finds itself in a favorable position relative to other states regarding the use of space for military purposes. Its lead, however, should not be taken for granted. If the United States rests on its laurels and squanders this advantage, it will certainly regret it.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Indeed,</span><span class="underline"> much of the rest of the world would</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> likely </span><span class="underline">regret it as well. The likelihood is that </span>today's emerging space powers-China, Iran, and North Korea<span class="underline">, to name several-</span>are not likely to be the benign force<span class="underline"> that </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>is<span class="underline"> today and will be in the future.</span>

4. India developing ASATs in response to China that will cause an arms race
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Samson 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-Senior Analyst @ the Center for Defense Information, Essayist @ The Space Review, M.A. in International Relations @ the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, B.A. in Political Science w/a specialization in International Relations @ UCLA [Victoria, “India’s missile defense/anti-satellite nexus,” May 10, 2010, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1621/1]]</span>] DavidK</span>
<span class="underline">While China’s</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 2007 anti-satellite </span><span class="underline">(ASAT) test and its missile defense intercept</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> test earlier this year </span><span class="underline">have attracted much attention and concern, another emerging space power has also been expressing its interest in developing those capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> yet attracting very little notice: </span><span class="underline">India.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Given enthusiastic statements by Indian officials about what they see as the need for ASATs and the country’s continued missile defense efforts, this could be worrisome. Though most of the rhetoric can be chalked up to regional rivalry, and much of the grandstanding downplays the level of technical capacity that still needs to be developed, India’s plans for missile defense and their relationship to space security bear further monitoring. </span>India has been working on<span class="underline"> a </span>missile defense<span class="underline"> system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that is primarily indigenously built </span><span class="underline">for several decades, but it wasn’t until</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> relatively </span><span class="underline">recently that successes were repeated during testing.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> India held missile defense intercept attempts in November 2006 (a test where the intercept occurred outside the Earth’s atmosphere, or was exoatmospheric), December 2007 (a test where Indian officials claimed that the intercept occurred inside the Earth’s atmosphere, or was endoatmospheric, despite video footage implying that the interceptor missed the target), March 2009 (an exoatmospheric test), and March 2010.1 During the last test, the modified Prithvi target missile did not follow its scheduled flight path and thus the interceptor missile, called the Advanced Air Defense (AAD) missile, was not launched.<span style="color: #000000;">2</span></span>Indian officials<span class="underline"> have indicated that they </span>want to deploy<span class="underline"> a working </span>missile defense<span class="underline"> system </span>by 2012<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Defense Research and Development Organization Director General V.K. Saraswat stated last October that the “[o]nly part that remains to be developed is the interceptor missile;”3the US Missile Defense Agency’s experience in developing interceptors might demonstrate to him how much work India might have ahead of itself. Per Saraswat, </span><span class="underline">there are two phases to India’s intended ballistic missile program: the first phase is planned to intercept target missiles with ranges of up to 2,000 kilometers</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> via “exo-atmospheric, endo-atmospheric and high-altitude interceptions,” </span><span class="underline">while in the second phase, India will strive to be able to intercept target missiles with ranges of 5,000 kilometers, which potentially could give India the ability to intercept intercontinental ballistic </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">missiles.4 Saraswat also proudly noted after China held its first missile defense intercept test attempt in January 2010, “This is one area where we are senior to China.”5 Dr K. Kasturirangan, former head of the India Space Research Organization (ISRO), said in September 2009, </span><span class="underline">“</span>China’s ASAT capabilities<span class="underline"> displayed a few years ago </span>was to show<span class="underline"> to </span>the world<span class="underline"> that </span>they too can do it<span class="underline">. That China can do what it wants to do and demonstrate that it can do even more… to supersede the best of the world, that is the </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">US.”6 He also stated, “</span><span class="underline">Obviously we start worrying. </span>We cannot overlook this aspect<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”7 Kasturirangan, sounding very similar to some parts of the US national space community, asserted that “</span>India<span class="underline"> has </span>spent a huge sum to develop<span class="underline"> its capabilities and place </span>assets in space<span class="underline">. Hence, </span>it becomes necessary to protect them from adversaries<span class="underline">. </span>There is a need to look at<span class="underline"> means of </span>securing these<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”8 In January 2010, Saraswat tipped India’s hand further when he told reporters, “</span><span class="underline">India is putting together building blocks of technology that could be used to neutralize enemy satellites</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” and that “</span><span class="underline">We are working to ensure space security and protect our satellites. At the same time we are also working on how to deny the enemy access to its space </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">assets.”9 This last part is very similar to statements made by some US officials charged with protecting US space assets. Saraswat did acknowledge, “Basically, these are deterrence technologies and quite certainly many of these technologies will not be used.”10 If that last part is true, it does raise the question of how much of a deterrent these technologies may actually provide, since the Indian government claims not to intend to use them. Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik gave in February 2010 perhaps the real reason why India has expressed any interest in an ASAT program in his explanation, [said] “Our satellites are vulnerable to ASAT weapon systems because our neighborhood possesses one.”11 Clarifying his statements from the previous month, Saraswat announced in February 2010, “In Agni-III, we have the building blocks and the capability to hit a satellite but we don't have to hit a satellite… If you hit a satellite, the repercussions are that we will have debris and they will be detrimental to objects in space and it will remain in there for many years.”12 This was a welcome acknowledgement by an Indian military official of some of the negative consequences of actively testing an ASAT program. Instead, Saraswat said that India “will validate the anti-satellite capability on the ground through simulation,” emphasizing that “there is no program to do a direct hit to the satellite.”13 Conflating India’s successes thus far with its ballistic missile arsenal development and its plans for a ballistic missile defense system, he went on to say, “With the kill vehicle available and with the propulsion system of Agni III, that can carry the missile up to 1,000 kilometers altitude, we can reach the orbit in which the satellite is and it is well within our capability.”14 Part of why India may be interested in developing an ASAT capability is that it wishes to use it as a way to enhance its missile defense program and, to a lesser extent, its domestic science and technology skills. This is latter is seen even in the United States, which has a much longer history of space activities, where some of the strongest proponents for continuing with space exploration (for example) couch their arguments in the need to maintain and expand an intellectual industrial base for space technology know-how. An ASAT capability requires, if one is using kinetic kill vehicles and not relying on the destruction from an electromagnetic pulse or a nuclear-tipped warhead, very solid and reliable hit-to-kill capabilities. </span>India<span class="underline"> has </span>explicitly expressed its interest in developing<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">more or less </span><span class="underline">indigenously its own</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> missile defense system and has been working assiduously on such a program for some time; thus, an </span>ASAT<span class="underline"> program</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as it were, would also be a technology demonstration program for a missile defense system. This highlights the similarities between missile defense and ASATs. Interestingly enough, India seemed a few years ago like it was more interested in purchasing parts of the Arrow Weapon System, a missile defense system co-developed by the United States and Israel. It apparently has since decided that it would rather build its own and gain the skill set such a system would require.</span>

Weaponization is inevitable – US needs to go first to maintain hegemony and prevent an arms race
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is the context in which the world now exists. </span><span class="underline">The relatively stable global hegemony of </span>US dominance<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> since 1945, </span><span class="underline">punctuated by limited wars and shifting balances of opposition, </span>has relied on technology<span class="underline">-dominant global power projection.Today, that technology is wholly integrated and </span>inextricable from space support, and no state relies more on space<span class="underline"> power for its economic and security well-being </span>than the US<span class="underline">. Any effort to deny space capabilities would be a direct challenge to its hegemonic power, and the United States must confront the usurper or abdicate its leadership position. To be sure, </span>China’s increasing space emphasis<span class="underline"> and its cultural antipathy to military transparency </span>suggests<span class="underline"> that </span>a serious attempt at seizing control of space<span class="underline"> is in the works. A lingering fear is the sudden introduction of an unknown capability </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(call it Technology X) </span><span class="underline">that would allow a hostile state to place multiple weapons into orbit quickly and cheaply</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. The advantages gained from controlling the high ground of space would accrue to it as surely as to any other state, and </span><span class="underline">the concomitant </span>loss of military power from<span class="underline"> the </span>denial of space to America’s<span class="underline"> already-dependent </span>military<span class="underline"> forces </span>could cause<span class="underline"> the </span>immediate demise of the<span class="underline"> extant </span>international system<span class="underline">. </span>The longer the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>dithers<span class="underline"> on its military responsibilities, </span>the more likely a potential opponent could seize low-earth orbit<span class="underline"> before America is able to respond. And in such circumstances, the US certainly would respond. Conversely, </span>if America were to weaponize space, it is not<span class="underline"> at all </span>sure<span class="underline"> that </span>any other state<span class="underline"> or group of states </span>would find it rational to counter<span class="underline"> in kind. </span>The entry cost<span class="underline"> to provide the necessary infrastructure </span>is<span class="underline"> still </span>too high<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">—hundreds of billions of dollars, at minimum. </span><span class="underline">The years of investment needed to achieve a comparable counter-force capability—essentially from scratch—would provide more than ample time for the United States to entrench itself in space and readily counter preliminary efforts to displace it. The tremendous effort in time and resources would be worse than wasted. Most </span>states<span class="underline">, if not all, </span>would opt not to counter US deployments <span class="underline">directly.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> They might oppose American interests with asymmetric balancing, depending on how aggressively it uses its new power, but </span><span class="underline">the </span>likelihood of<span class="underline"> a hemorrhaging </span>arms race in space should the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>deploy weapons first<span class="underline">—at least for the next few years—</span>is remote<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This reasoning does not dispute the fact that </span>US<span class="underline"> deployment of </span>weapons<span class="underline"> in outer space </span>would represent<span class="underline"> the addition of a potent </span>new military capacity<span class="underline">, one </span>that would<span class="underline"> assist in </span>extend<span class="underline">ing the current period of </span>American hegemony<span class="underline"> well into the future. Clearly this would be intimidating</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and America must expect severe condemnation and increased competition in peripheral areas. </span><span class="underline">But such an outcome is less threatening than another, particularly non-liberal authoritarian state doing so, as the necessity of a response in kind is compelling. Placement of weapons in space by the United States would be perceived correctly as an attempt at continuing American hegemony. Although there is obvious opposition to the current international balance of power, </span>the majority of states seem to regard it as<span class="underline"> at least </span>tolerable<span class="underline">. A continuation of the status quo is thus minimally acceptable, even to states working toward its demis</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">e. As long as the United States does not employ its power arbitrarily, </span><span class="underline">the situation would be bearable initially and grudgingly accepted over time. Mirror-imaging does not apply here. </span>An attempt by China to dominate<span class="underline"> space would be part of an effort to break the land-sea-air dominance of the United States in preparation for a new international order.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Such an action would challenge the status quo, rather than seek to perpetuate it. </span><span class="underline">This </span>would be disconcerting to nations that accept<span class="underline">, no matter how grudgingly, </span>the<span class="underline"> current </span>international order<span class="underline">—including the venerable institutions of trade, finance, and law that operate within it—and intolerable to the United States. As leader of the current system, the United States could do no less than engage in a perhaps ruinous space arms race, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">save graciously decide to step aside and accept a diminished world status. </span><span class="underline">Seizing the initiative and securing low-Earth orbit now, while the United States is dominant in space infrastructure, would do much to stabilize the international system and prevent an arms race in space. The enhanced ability to deny any attempt by another nation to place military assets in space and to readily engage and destroy terrestrial anti-satellite capacity would make the possibility of large-scale space war or military space races less likely, not more. Why would a state expend the effort to compete in space with a superpower that has the extraordinary advantage of holding securely the highest ground at the top of the gravity well? </span>So long as the controlling state demonstrates<span class="underline"> a capacity and a </span>will to use force<span class="underline"> to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a </span>future war in space is remote<span class="underline">.</span>

And, We’ll isolate 4 internal links to hegemony

1. Military power – threats of attacks on space assets increasing that will crush capabilities
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland [Forrest, </span>Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, part of a RAND study “Project Air Force,” June 16, pg. ix-1]</span>

Space stability is a<span class="underline"> fundamental U.S. </span>national security interest<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Unfor­tunately, that stability may be eroding. Since the end of the Cold War, </span><span class="underline">U.S. </span>military<span class="underline"> forces have repeatedly demonstrated their </span>dominance<span class="underline"> in conventional warfare, </span>and future enemies will be<span class="underline"> well </span>aware<span class="underline"> that the</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> dramatic warfighting </span>advantage<span class="underline"> that </span>U.S. forces possess is<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">largely </span>the result of<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">support from </span>space. With<span class="underline"> a growing number of </span>states acquiring<span class="underline"> the </span>ability to<span class="underline"> degrade or </span>destroy U.S. space capabilities<span class="underline">, the </span>probability that space systems will come under attack<span class="underline"> in a future crisis or conflict </span>is<span class="underline"> ever </span>increasing<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Deterring adversaries from attacking some U.S. space systems may be difficult due to these systems' inher­ent vulnerability and the disproportionate degree to which the United States depends on the services they provide. Nevertheless, the United States can fashion a regime to raise the thresholds of deterrence failure in terms of destructive attacks on its space systems and thus achieve a measure of first-strike stability in space during crises and at some levels of limited war. (See pp. 7-16.) While the factors above suggest that stability in space is eroding, it would be overly simplistic to assume that the thresholds of deterrence failure are the same for all space systems or at all levels of confronta­tion. In any given crisis or conflict, an adversary would have to weigh a range of factors in contemplating attacks on U.S. space capabilities. The risks incurred or benefits expected in a space attack would vary greatly in the context of any specific scenario. Consequently, it is less a ques­tion of whether would-be aggressors can be deterred from attacking U.S. space systems than of what kinds of attacks against which capa­bilities could be deterred under what circumstances. (See pp. 16-21.) As Figure S.l illustrates, </span><span class="underline">an adversary's assessment of the costs and benefits of attacking a U.S. space system would likely vary from one prospective target set to another at each level of conflict, and the </span>threshold<span class="underline"> of deterrence failure would be different </span>for<span class="underline"> nondestructive </span>attacks<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(i.e., "reversible-effects" attacks) </span><span class="underline">than for destructive attacks</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (those that cause damage). (See pp. 16-21.) </span><span class="underline">Some of these thresholds </span>are quite low<span class="underline"> today. </span>An opponent <span class="underline">in a confrontation with the U</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">tates that has not yet engaged in con­ventional terrestrial hostilities </span>might consider<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> reversible-effects </span>attacks on<span class="underline"> U.S. </span>space<span class="underline">-based intelligence, surveillance</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and</span><span class="underline"> reconnaissance</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (ISR) </span><span class="underline">and communication </span>assets<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> to be a promising means of degrad­ing the United States' ability to respond to the crisis, </span><span class="underline">with </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">relatively </span><span class="underline">low risk of serious retribution</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> compared to that of a destructive attack on one or more U.S. satellites. Fearing the onset of U.S. air strikes, </span><span class="underline">the adversary might also begin jamming</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Global Positioning System </span><span class="underline">(GPS) signals</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in areas around command-and-control nodes and other impor­tant facilities to degrade the accuracy of U.S. precision-guided weap­ons. Given the great extent to which the United States depends on space systems for its national security and economic prosperity, U.S. </span><span class="underline">poli­cymakers and military leaders are becoming increasingly concerned that future adversaries might attack those systems. </span>U.S. military forces<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> operate in distant theaters and employ ever more sophisticated equip­ment and doctrines that </span>rely on<span class="underline"> advanced </span>surveillance<span class="underline">, reconnaissance, </span>communication, navigation, and timing<span class="underline"> data</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, most of which is </span>pro­duced<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> or relayed </span>by satellites<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The ground infrastructure that supports these assets has long been vulnerable to attack, </span><span class="underline">and a growing number of states now possess</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> or are developing </span><span class="underline">means of attacking satellites</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the communication links that connect them to users and control sta­tions. Due to the dramatic warfighting advantage that space support provides to U.S. forces, </span><span class="underline">[and] </span>security analysts are<span class="underline"> nearly </span>unanimous in<span class="underline"> their </span>judgment that future enemies will<span class="underline"> likely attempt to "</span>level the playing field" by attacking U.S. space systems<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in efforts to degrade or eliminate that support. All of this suggests that first-strike stability in space may be eroding.</span>

2. Space weapons are also key to overall US tech leadership - that’s key to heg
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective. This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. </span><span class="underline">Of course space weapons are expensive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—very expensive,</span><span class="underline"> though not necessarily more expensive than terrestrially based systems that may accomplish the same objectives</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, not to mention objectives that cannot be met otherwise—but </span><span class="underline">so are all revolutionary technologies, particularly those that pioneer a new medium.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Furthermore, </span>the state that achieves cutting-edge military technology first has<span class="underline"> historically </span>been the recipient of tremendous battlefield advantage<span class="underline">, and </span>so pursuit of cut-ting-edge technology continues<span class="underline">— despite the enormous cost.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moreover, </span><span class="underline">the cultural and economic infrastructure that allows for and promotes </span>innovation in the highest technologies tends to remain at the forefront of international influence<span class="underline">. All empires decline </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and eventually are subsumed, </span><span class="underline">but it has not been their search for the newest technologies or desire to stay at the forefront of innovation that causes their declines. Rather, it has been </span>the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> policies of those states, generally an overexpansion of imperial control or an economic </span>decision to freeze technologies<span class="underline">, that </span>result in their <span class="underline">stagnation and </span>demise<span class="underline">. Space and </span>space technology represen<span class="underline">t both the resources and </span>the innovation that can keep<span class="underline"> a liberal and responsible </span>American hegemony in place<span class="underline"> for decades, if not centuries</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, to come; furthermore, </span>unless America maintains this<span class="underline"> technological </span>edge, it will<span class="underline"> likely </span>lose its preeminence<span class="underline">.</span>

3. Space weapons are key to giving the US the tactical and diplomatic high ground necessary to sustaining leadership
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 3</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Space Weapons: Are They Needed?,” From Chapter 2: Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21st Century, October, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">The goals here are to establish the most beneficial global conditions for an extended and robust era of peace and prosperity – for all states. Requisite for the purpose is a maximization of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the period of </span><span class="underline">hegemony of the United States. Control of space is critical to this need. </span>Space has the<span class="underline"> unique </span>capacity of being the “unflankable” high ground. So tactically advantageous is the<span class="underline"> high ground </span>position that has<span class="underline"> both </span>line of site over and defensive domination of the battlefield<span class="underline"> that commanders have always sought it. Space control is not only tactically advantageous on the battlefield, </span>it is strategically so in diplomacy. The entity in control of space ha<span class="underline">s real-time presence and </span>persistence over the globe<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.39 </span><span class="underline">So strong is the fortified position at the top of the Earth’s gravity well that </span>should any nation seize it, it could<span class="underline"> effectively </span>deny access to<span class="underline"> space to </span>any<span class="underline"> other </span>state <span class="underline">that should attempt to put assets there</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. A simple argument could be made that</span><span class="underline"> the United States has an imperative to seize control of space on this point alone, to prevent a dangerous enemy from taking it, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">but such a case could be made for any state that desired domination over the world. My point is that </span><span class="underline">not only is </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates the sole country with the capacity to seize space (currently), it </span>is theonly great power that has a history of benign intervention and<span class="underline"> overall </span>disdain of empire<span class="underline"> that it is morally important it do so before any state bent on world domination and oppression can. </span>

4. Spacepower solves global deterrence through transparency and dissuasion
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
Spacepower provides<span class="underline"> different </span>ways to manage security concerns<span class="underline">. Because of its matchless ability to gain global access and achieve global presence</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> while delivering nearly ubiquitous capabilities, </span><span class="underline">spacepower is playing an increasing security role in war and peace around the globe on a perpetual basis. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This chapter examines the opportunities spacepower provides to secure the peace and to fight wars. Spacepower and War Prevention </span><span class="underline">Spacepower is </span>ideally suited for war prevention—securing<span class="underline"> the </span>peace<span class="underline">—as a matter of daytoday statecraft</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. To put this in clearer terms, "</span><span class="underline">the primary value of spacepower is not support to warfighters, rather it is that space capabilities are the primary means of war prevention</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">."1 Spacepower can provide both indirect and direct methods to achieve war prevention. Indirect methods involve cooperative interstate behavior to reduce security concerns without the use or threat of force. Direct methods involve the use of force or threats of force. For now, </span>spacepower lends itself<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> more </span>toward<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> indirect methods such as </span><span class="underline">providing </span>global<span class="underline"> and cislunar </span>transparency and expanding<span class="underline"> broad </span>international partnerships<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Direct methods are more hard-power–centric and include those capabilities that deliver assurance, dissuasive, and deterrent effects, matched with careful diplomacy, in a cost/benefit calculus. </span><span class="underline">As space weapons proliferate, </span>spacepower will offer<span class="underline"> effective </span>direct methods of preventingwar<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Each indirect and direct method is discussed below. </span><span class="underline">Indirect Methods Transparency. Space-based reconnaissance and </span>surveillance platforms<span class="underline">, because of their global nature, </span>contribute<span class="underline"> directly </span>to reducing security concerns by providing insight<span class="underline"> into observable human activities around the globe </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">and in the cislunar region.</span><span class="underline"> Insight into human activity in space,</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> manned or unmanned,</span><span class="underline"> is every bit as important as observations of terrestrial activities. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">When considered together,</span><span class="underline"> such insights can alleviate unfounded fears </span>and prevent miscalculations<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, as well as deliver warnings and indications of activities of genuine concern. This was obvious right from the start of the space age </span><span class="underline">during the Cold War </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">when the first successful American reconnaissance satellite, called Corona XIV, returned more imagery of Soviet nuclear forces from deep inside the Soviet Union than did all of the prior U–2 missions combined.2 This new</span><span class="underline"> satellite-derived information caused a sharp downward revision in the estimate of Soviet intercontinental ballistic missile launchers </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">from 140–200 to between 10 and 25.3 Later, only six of the sites were determined to be operational.4</span><span class="underline"> This application of spacepower helped reduce the American security </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">concern and allowed the Eisenhower and subsequent administrations to right-size their nuclear deterrent force against a much smaller threat than suggested by estimates formulated without satellite data. Space was no longer merely a science project, but a real instrument of policy. True spacepower had arrived. As the example above illustrates,</span><span class="underline"> spacepower provides transparency that reduces the fog during peacetime, </span>increases the certainty of information, and allows contemplation of matters<span class="underline"> with a better approximation of the facts.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">5 While this is entirely beneficial to the actor who possesses such information, the value of transparency has its limits. Some states feel increased security concerns if satellite-derived information about their observable affairs is distributed widely. China voiced this complaint shortly after the release of Google Earth, but accommodations were made to degrade the quality of images of areas sensitive to the Chinese government.6 Such concerns must be addressed and dealt with directly, but accommodations can be made. Many states undoubtedly will change their conduct of military and other affairs to ways that are not observable by satellites. India, for example, avoided detection of its efforts to develop and test a nuclear device in 1998 by conducting activities when U.S. imagery satellites were not passing overhead and during times when sandstorms and intense heat could disrupt surveillance sensors.7 Such nefarious workarounds can be eliminated by fielding a large constellation of several dozen reconnaissance and surveillance satellites owned and operated by suprastate or trans-state actors using multispectral technology. The point is that every inch of the Earth could be imaged several times a day using various techniques that can counter various many concealment efforts. Global transparency efforts are large and expensive and by their very nature will require a high degree of international partnering. Partnering. Another opportunity that spacepower provides for managing security concerns is capitalizing on collaborative international security space arrangements to provide global transparency, space situational awareness, and space traffic management, to name just a few. Such partnerships need not be limited to security-related functions, but must cross into civil and commercial endeavors as well, such as space-based solar power, human missions to the Moon and Mars, space stations, space-based astronomy, and so forth. The goal is not only to accomplish something meaningful in space, but also to build mutual understanding and rapport among the participating states. The American and Soviet joint venture on the Apollo-Soyuz mission in the mid-1970s is one such example. Although the tangible scientific benefits of the exercise are debatable, it demonstrated to both parties and to the international community that cooperation on a very challenging task is possible, even between the two Cold War antagonists with their widely divergent strategic cultures. This civil spacepower effort became a point of departure for other confidence-building gestures between the two and certainly eased tensions in the homelands and among the rest of the world as well, thereby reducing security concerns. Partnering on spacefaring projects brings together more brilliant minds and resources to solve problems and to advance the art. It not only heightens the likelihood of success of those programs, but over time it also reduces the friction during peacetime between states, decreases the potential for cultural misunderstandings, increases the opportunities for alliance, integrates aspects of each state's economic and industrial base, and fosters working relationships between governments.8 Partnering is not always easy, as the members of the International Space Station or the mostly European states belonging to the Galileo Consortium will attest. In fact, it can be frustrating and even maddening. Disparate economic strengths, distribution of resources, and talent give each state a different value as a potential partner. States that are rich in some areas will be highly sought after as partners. Poorer states will not. However, from a partnership perspective, all are valuable as prospective partners as part of a collaborative international security arrangement. The opportunities that spacepower offers spacefaring and non-spacefaring states alike in the forms of global transparency and international partnering in order to prevent wars are entirely different from opportunities provided by operations in any other media. The strategic cultures of most states—especially weaker or developing ones that are not yet spacefaring—will find the indirect methods highly attractive and engender soft power to the leaders of such efforts.9 These approaches may be sufficient for most states' spacerelated security needs while reducing their security concerns inside the terrestrial confines. Direct Methods Many states will not feel comfortable having their security rest on such idealistic constructs as the indirect methods alone. Some states, especially those with more militaristic strategic cultures, will likely seek space weaponry (overtly or covertly) in the form of defensive systems to protect their space assets from attack and offensive systems to prevent foes from exploiting space to gain a military advantage. The focus here is on hard power and space weapons—weapons that create their effects in space against the space segment, regardless of where the weapons themselves are based. We will not be looking at spacepower's longstanding support to terrestrial forces that are continuously engaged in dissuasion and deterrence strategies. This is particularly the case with nuclear forces but is increasingly so with conventional forces as well. Many factors contribute to space-related security concerns faced by states and directly correlate to their likely drive for space weaponry. Each state will perform its own threatrisk calculus and respond accordingly. There are some elements of the threat-risk calculus that must be kept in mind. For example, more advanced spacefaring states have the most at risk in space and therefore have greater incentives to field defensive weaponry. Less advanced states may build offensive weapons as an asymmetric means of countering the power of a space-reliant potential adversary. The proliferation of space weapons will drive the need for greater space defenses. The lack of sufficient space situational awareness for threat and damage assessment and attribution increases the sense of risk by all. Finally, every state, whether it is directly spacefaring or not, is a user of space services, and therefore all states are space actors and must consider their space threat-risk calculus.</span><span class="underline"> Acquiring weapons is not a sufficient precursor to war, as the peaceful conclusion of the Cold War illustrates. In fact, the </span>possession of hard power capabilities<span class="underline"> managed in a responsible and constrained manner </span>enables<span class="underline"> the war </span>preventive strategies of assurance, dissuasion, and deterrence<span class="underline">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">as were used to avert hostilities during the Cold War and beyond. There is an important point that must be made here.</span>States can only practice assurance<span class="underline">, dissuasion, and deterrence </span>if they<span class="underline"> openly </span>possess<span class="underline"> a credible force of </span>space weapons<span class="underline">.10 There is no war prevention benefit gained by keeping space weapons a secret, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">other than avoiding a space arms race. A potential adversary must clearly perceive a credible space weapons capability for these strategies to work. There are no agreed definitions for these terms, so care will be given to explain exactly what is meant. Assurances. The concept of assurances is borrowed directly from nuclear-related literature. It involves stronger and weaker states making guarantees (assurances) for the purpose of preventing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and war. There are negative and positive security assurances. These concepts can be related to space weapons and warfare. Negative assurances would be guarantees by space weapons states not to use or threaten the use of such weapons against states that have formally renounced space weapons. Positive assurances would be the agreement between a space weapons state and a non–space weapons state that the latter would receive assistance if it is attacked or threatened by a state that uses space weapons against them. Presently, there are no known assurances between space weapons states and non–space weapons states in the international community beyond those in the Outer Space Treaty. This is a wide open area waiting for diplomatic engagement. Presumably, the threat posed by space weapons has not yet raised the level of security concerns among the international community to stimulate assurance-making among states. As we have seen in the nuclear community, some states will give public assurances not to proliferate, only to work to acquire weapons covertly. There is always the risk of being hoodwinked, which highlights the need for greater transparency and other soft power– related means of securing the aims of policy. In addition, no state has yet come forward and declared itself a "space weapons state," even though we see evidence of testing and actual employment of such weapons with increasing frequency. The utility of space weapons–related assurances are questionable until it is clear who has space weapons and who does not. Dissuasion. </span>Dissuasion<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, like soft power, </span>rests on<span class="underline"> the </span>ability to shape the preferences of others<span class="underline"> so they behave in a certain desired manner</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.12 But unlike soft power, where others choose a course of action you would like them to pursue simply because they find it attractive, dissuasion is really about persuading them not to do something that you would not like them to do. Dissuasion is a negotiation of sorts, where one party "talks" the other out of doing something by demonstrating to them that the costs outweigh the benefits, because the competition is so far ahead that it becomes either impossible or simply impractical to catch up. </span><span class="underline">Dissuasion is a method attempted by powerful, long-established nuclear states to persuade nonnuclear states from proliferating</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. They approach states before they proliferate and directly or tacitly attempt to dissuade them from proceeding with their program by convincing them that the cost of competing with the powerful established proliferator in the nuclear arena is just too great. The hope is for the state to decide on its own that joining in the nuclear competition is not in its interest. </span><span class="underline">As applied to spacepower, </span>a state that demonstrates<span class="underline"> a robust defensive and </span>offensive capability may<span class="underline"> tacitly </span>dissuade others from attempting to compete<span class="underline"> against that state in space.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">13 </span><span class="underline">Conversely, if a state's overall power, especially military power, appears directly tied to its space-based assets</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">—a center of gravity—</span><span class="underline">but it has no visible means for defending them or denying other states from exploiting space for military gain, it almost baits potential adversaries into fielding space weaponry. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The evidence shows mixed results with dissuasion with regard to nuclear proliferation. Since the mid-1990s, India, Pakistan, and North Korea have acquired nuclear devices, and Iran may be well on its way. Libya may be a success story. Its leadership seems to have made a cost-benefit analysis that resulted in the shutdown of its nuclear program. Other states may have been dissuaded, but the evidence is not clear. There is an important note to add regarding spacepower. A state that has overwhelming spacepower may successfully dissuade another actor from competing militarily in the space arena, but that actor might choose to pursue asymmetric and potentially more violent means of achieving its aims as a result. Deterrence</span><span class="underline">. </span>When soft power, assurances, and dissuasion fail, spacepower plays a central role in deterrent strategies that may prevent wars<span class="underline">. Deterrence is the prevention of war based on coercion by threat of damage.14 It must be a credible threat of inflicting unacceptable damage on an opponent. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This was the case during the Cold War standoff between the United States and Soviet Union. During the arms race of the Cold War, U.S. and Soviet space systems became thoroughly integrated into their states' nuclear attack warning, command and control, assessment, targeting, planning, and most every aspect of finding, targeting, and potentially destroying each other. The end of the Cold War and the commensurate reduction of security concerns that followed allowed the focus of space systems to evolve rapidly away from purely support to nuclear forces toward support to all warfighting activities, conventional, covert, and otherwise</span><span class="underline">. It remains clear, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">however,</span><span class="underline"> that spacepower assets, as deeply integrated as they are in all aspects of military operations among advanced spacefaring states, will continue to be the interconnecting glue making terrestrial deterrence more effective.</span>

And, Threats are inevitable - heg is key to global stability and to access every major impact
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thayer</span>, Professor of Strategic Studies, <span style="font-size: 16px;">6</span> - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei­ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri­macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in­terests. But </span>retrenchment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in any of its guis­es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that </span>would lead to<span class="underline"> far greater </span>instability and war<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa­bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa­bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri­macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action­ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur­ing </span><span class="underline">American primacy takes as its starting point the protec­tion of </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like</span><span class="underline"> oil flow around the world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, that the </span><span class="underline">global trade and monetary regimes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re­trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, </span><span class="underline">retrenchment will make the United States less secure</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because </span>threats will exist no mat­ter what role America chooses to play<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in international politics. Washington can­not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. </span><span class="underline">Whether they are terror­ists, rogue states or rising powers,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his­tory shows that </span><span class="underline">threats must be confront­ed.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus </span>abandoning<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">its </span>commitments<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or making unconvinc­ing half‑pledges to defend its interests and allies, </span>does not mean<span class="underline"> that </span>others will respect American wishes to retreat<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> To make such a declarationimplies </span>weak­ness<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span>emboldens aggression<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, </span><span class="underline">predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna­tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront­ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys­ical, on‑the‑ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing.Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com­mon"‑‑the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space‑allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca­pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today‑-</span>in a world where Ameri­canprimacy is<span class="underline"> clearly</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and unambiguous­ly </span>on display<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--is that </span>countries want to align themselves with the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but </span><span class="underline">because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ­their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America‑-their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements‑and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun­try, or any country, had so many allies. </span><span class="underline">U.S. primacy‑-and the bandwagon­ing effect‑has also given us extensive in­fluence </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability </span><span class="underline">to cre­ate coalitions of like‑minded states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro­liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American‑led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec­tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun­tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac­tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re­sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica­tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases‑‑Venezuela, Iran, Cuba‑it is an anti‑U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin­sically anti‑American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power‑‑Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol­ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con­sider</span><span class="underline"> the current </span>international order<span class="underline"> ‑ free trade, a robust monetary regime, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">increas­ing respect for </span><span class="underline">human rights</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, growing </span><span class="underline">de­mocratization‑‑</span>is directly linked to U.S. power.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons:</span>Appalling things happen when international orders collapse<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">The Dark Ages fol­lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With­out U.S. power, the liberal order</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> cre­ated by the United States </span><span class="underline">will end</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American </span>primacy<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> within the international system </span>causes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> many positive outcomes for Washing­ton and the world. The first has been </span>a more peaceful world<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. During the Cold War, </span>U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela­tionships aligned‑-between </span><span class="underline">Greece </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and </span><span class="underline">Turkey, Israel</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Egypt, South Korea</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Japan, India</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a </span>Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> war's worst form: </span>great power wars<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Second, </span><span class="underline">American power gives the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">the ability to spread de­mocracy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and other elements of its ideol­ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, </span><span class="underline">once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter­ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because </span><span class="underline">they are more open</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, more transparent and more likely to want </span><span class="underline">to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead­ership</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin­istration for attempting to spread democ­racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit­ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta­bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per­haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af­ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat­ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash­ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western‑style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku­wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob­al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character­ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo­bility of capital and labor markets. The </span><span class="underline">economic stability</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and</span><span class="underline"> prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that stems from this economic order is a glob­al public good from which all states ben­efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well‑being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin‑offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca­reer confident in the socialist ideology of post‑independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog­nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free</span><span class="underline"> market economic policies and globaliza­tion</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which</span><span class="underline"> are facilitated through Amer­ican primacy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides</span>.

And- previous attempts to develop SMD should have triggered the link
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitchens 02</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Theresa-CDI Vice President, “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette? </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The Policy Implications of U.S. Pursuit of Space-Based Weapons”, April 18, 2002, [[http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm]]) np</span>
The second factor driving U.S.<span class="underline"> political-military </span>thinking about weaponizing space is<span class="underline"> the push</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, now being rapidly accelerated by the Bush administration, </span><span class="underline">to develop </span>missile defenses.The administration already<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> has </span>announced<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its </span>intent to withdraw<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, on June 13, 2002, </span>from <span class="underline">the </span>ABM<span class="underline"> treaty</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, not only opening the path for development of missile interceptors but also clearing the way for the United States to develop anti-satellite weapons targeted against potentially hostile spy satellites. The </span>Pentagon's<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> just-revised </span>missile defense plansinclude<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a </span><span class="underline">much </span>greater emphasis on<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the potential for </span>space-based systems<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in particular for shooting down enemy missiles in their boost phase as they begin to ascend through the atmosphere. Although it is unclear if these plans are a deliberate foot in the door to the weaponization of space, their implementation would have that effect. A decision to move forward with space-based missile defense systems would end today's policy of restraint — with or without an overt move to rewrite the National Space Policy. The newly named Missile Defense Agency (formerly the Ballistic Missile Defense Agency) has proposed spending $1.33 billion from 2003 to 2007 on developing "Space-Based Boost" — in essence reviving the Reagan-era concept of Brilliant Pebbles, a constellation of orbiting, kinetic kill vehicles designed to knock out enemy ICBMs in their boost phase. "Concept assessment" is due to be completed in early 2003, according to Pentagon fiscal year (FY) 2003 budget documents, with an aim to "support a product line decision not earlier than FY 2006."<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>13 The development program is being designed to include at least limited experiments in space. </span>Research on<span class="underline"> the </span>S<span class="underline">pace </span>B<span class="underline">ased </span>L<span class="underline">aser </span>has been ongoing for some time, and<span class="underline"> laser </span>technology has<span class="underline"> slowly </span>progressed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The program has experienced developmental trouble, however, and Congress cut FY 2002 funding, bringing to a halt the program's planned Integrated Flight Experiment of an early prototype. The Missile Defense Agency is now reevaluating the program, but intends to continue exploring technologies through 2007 — proposing $284.8 million in spending from FY 2003-2007.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>14 Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz recently testified to Congress that the Pentagon budget for FY 2003 includes about $103 million for directed energy technology (including Space-Based Laser).<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>15</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 16px; text-align: left;">Contention 2 is China.</span>
Secret Chinese documents and leaked cables prove they’re weaponizing; cooperation is impossible
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gertz, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - national security editor and a national security and investigative reporter for The Washington Times (2011, Bill, “Inside the Ring,” Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/9/inside-the-ring-846232496/)</span>
China used<span class="underline"> a </span>top-secret<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> SC-19 anti-satellite (</span>ASAT<span class="underline">) missile in a </span>test <span class="underline">last year against a target missile </span>as part of a missile-defense<span class="underline"> system </span>that remains shrouded in secrecy<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The ASAT missile was fired against a new medium-range missile and details were disclosed in a State Department cable made public recently by WikiLeaks that included an outline of a diplomatic protest note to Beijing about both Chinese weapons programs. </span><span class="underline">The </span>cable provides<span class="underline"> the </span>first<span class="underline"> detailed U.S. </span>assessment of<span class="underline"> what defense officials say is a </span>major strategic advancement in China’s military buildup<span class="underline">. It reveals that </span>China’s a<span class="underline">nti-</span>sat<span class="underline">ellite </span>system <span class="underline">was developed for use not only against satellites but </span>is part of a larger strategic missile-defense<span class="underline"> system. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Defense Secretary Robert M. </span>Gates<span class="underline"> offered to hold strategic talks with China on missile defenses, as well as space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, nuclear and cyberweapons, during a recent visit to Beijing. </span><span class="underline">The </span>offer was rebuffed by China’s defense minister<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, who said only that it would be studied. </span><span class="underline">Defense officials and private specialists said </span>the cable<span class="underline"> further </span>highlights<span class="underline"> official </span>Chinese<span class="underline"> government </span>duplicity in opposing U.S. missile defenses<span class="underline"> and promoting an international agreement to limit weapons in space </span>at the same time it is secretly working on its own space weapons<span class="underline"> and missile defense programs.</span>

Risk of attack on space assets is high - China will attack while we’re perceived as weak
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Choong 9</span>- Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, articles appear in The International Institute of Strategic Studies, [William, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis, DavidK]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">LAST month, China lofted a navigational satellite into the heavens. The Compass satellite will be part of the Beidou Navigation System of up to 30 'birds' that China will put into orbit by 2015. The launch highlights the massive strides that China has made since the early 1990s, when it witnessed how United States-led forces leveraged on space- based C4ISR (command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) capabilities during the first Gulf War. But it was only in recent years that China's space-based programme has really taken off. China's first manned space flight in 2003 carried just one astronaut; the second in 2005 bore two. Last year, it staged its first space walk. </span>The most worrying aspect of China's space programme<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, however, </span>is the<span class="underline"> anti-satellite</span>(Asat) exercise <span class="underline">it conducted in 2007</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, when it destroyed a defunct weather satellite with a missile. Analysts noted that China used the 'hit to kill' method - a technology that involves 'stopping a bullet with a bullet'. This meant that </span><span class="underline">China's Asat capability had surpassed that of the former Soviet Union. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since then, </span><span class="underline">there has been much talk</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - most of it American - </span><span class="underline">of how China could raise the costs of American intervention in a conflict</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, say, over the Taiwan Strait. Earlier this year, for example, the Pentagon wrote in its annual report on the Chinese military that </span>Beijing was developing capabilities to attack space assets<span class="underline"> of potential adversaries in a bid to 'blind and deafen the enemy'.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> According to Richard Fisher, the author of China's Military Modernization: Building For Regional And Global Reach, China has more than 1,500 ballistic and cruise missiles aimed at Taiwan. The newer missiles are more precise than the older ones, thanks to navigation satellite ('navsat') guidance. Dr Ashley Tellis, a China expert, goes further. </span>China's pursuit<span class="underline"> of counter- space capabilities </span>is part of a<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 'considered </span>strategy designed to counter the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> overall </span>military capability of the US'.<span class="underline"> China's space programme is </span>an asymmetric strategy aimed at America's 'soft ribs'<span class="underline"> in space. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In other words,</span>China could carry out a 'space Pearl Harbour'.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many of </span>these 'China threat' arguments can be supported empirically<span class="underline">. Mao</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Zedong </span><span class="underline">used asymmetrical warfare to overwhelm stronger opponents. And </span>China's <span class="underline">much-vaunted </span>strategy of 'active defence'<span class="underline">, argue some, </span>is actually <span class="underline">an insidious strategy of using </span>offence<span class="underline"> in the name of defence.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Think of China's wars with India and the former Soviet Union in 1962 and 1969 respectively.</span>
Official statements and a larger Chinese grand strategy of dominance prove our claims
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AFP 09</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Defense Talk.com, “China commander says space weapons inevitable,” November 3, 2009, http://www.defencetalk.com/china-commander-says-space-weapons-inevitable-22844/, DavidK]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Beijing: </span><span class="underline">A top </span>China air force commander<span class="underline"> has </span>called<span class="underline"> the </span>militarization of space a<span class="underline">n "</span>historical inevitability<span class="underline">",</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> state media said Monday, </span>marking<span class="underline"> an apparent </span>shift in Beijing's opposition to weaponising outer space.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In a wide-ranging interview in </span>the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> People's Liberation Army (</span>PLA<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) Daily, air force commander Xu Qiliang </span>said it was imperative<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for the PLA air force </span>to develop offensive<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and defensive </span>operations<span class="underline"> in </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">outer </span><span class="underline">space.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "As far as the revolution in military affairs is concerned, </span><span class="underline">the </span>competition between military forces is moving towards outer space.<span class="underline">.. this is a historical inevitability and a </span>development<span class="underline"> that </span>cannot be turned back<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," Xu told the paper. "</span>The PLA air force must establish<span class="underline"> in a timely manner the concepts of </span>space security<span class="underline">, space interests and space development.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "We must build an outer space force that conforms with the needs of our nation's development (and) the demands of the development of the space age." Superiority in outer space can give a nation control over war zones both on land and at sea, while also offering a strategic advantage, Xu said, noting that such dominance was necessary to safeguard the nation. "</span><span class="underline">Only power can protect peace," the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 59-year-old </span><span class="underline">commander sai</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">d in the interview given to coincide with this month's 60th anniversary of the founding of the PLA air force.</span>

An offensive strategy is key to prevent war; general deterrence fails
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland [</span>Forrest, Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, part of a RAND study “Project Air Force,” June 16, pg. 3-4]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space stability issues differ from the Kent-Thaler conception of first-strike stability in that nuclear forces are not directly involved, so the risk of prompt catastrophic damage in the event of a deterrence fail­ure is not nearly as great. However, several other strong parallels exist between first-strike stability in space and in the nuclear realm. First, space support substantially enhances operational warfighting capabili­ties in the terrestrial domain that are threatening to potential enemies. At the same time, satellites are difficult to defend against adversaries with capabilities to attack them. As a result, </span>space<span class="underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> like the nuclear realm, </span>is an offense-dominant environment<span class="underline"> with substantial incentives for striking first should war appear probable.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Second, </span>deterrence fail­ures<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in space, though not as immediately catastrophic as nuclear deter­rence failures, </span>could<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, nonetheless, </span>be very costly<span class="underline"> given the resources invested in orbital infrastructure and the many security and economic functions that benefit from space support.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> And, like nuclear deterrence failures, </span><span class="underline">the </span>costs of warfare in space would<span class="underline"> likely </span>be shared by third parties<span class="underline"> due to global economic interdependence and multinational ownership of many space systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—all the more so if kinetic attacks on satellites litter important orbits with debris. Finally, there is a parallel between nuclear and space deterrence in that significant thresholds are perceived in both realms, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation/1While strategic thinkers largely agree that U.S. space systems present tempting targets for future adversaries, there is wide debate on what to do about this threat. </span><span class="underline">Some argue that,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> due to the difficulty of defending orbital assets from capable attackers, </span><span class="underline">the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">should simply attempt to discourage hostile actors from attacking</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> sat­ellites by continuing to promote the international norm that space should be preserved as a sanctuary from war.5 At the other end of the spectrum are those who </span><span class="underline">[others] argue that </span>the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>should arm itself for offensive<span class="underline"> and defensive </span>counterspace operationsand,<span class="underline"> in the event of war, </span>protect its space assets by<span class="underline"> forcefully </span>dominating the medium<span class="underline"> in a fashion similar to the way it has in other domains.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">6 Positions that fall between these extremes include arguments for more passive and active defenses, dispersal of space capabilities, and developing alterna­tive means of support, thereby reducing U.S. dependence on space. Unfortunately, many of these arguments miss an important point: Given that the United States benefits so much from uninterrupted access to space support, a fundamental U.S. national security interest in space—perhaps the most important one—is stability. Granted, </span>devel­oping the ability to defend<span class="underline"> U.S. </span>space assets is<span class="underline"> an </span>important<span class="underline"> objective, and should the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">find itself at war with an adversary whose warfighting capabilities are substantially enhanced by space systems, U.S. military leaders would likely want the ability to deny those adver­saries access to space support.</span>

This is uniquely true of China – they won’t cooperate in space
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Foust, 11</span> – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, “Space challenges for 2011,” The Space Review, 1/3,
[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1752/1]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Proposing cooperation with China For several years observers have pointed to what appeared to be an emerging space race among Asian nations, including China, India, Japan, and South Korea. What 2010 demonstrated was that if there is a race, it’s not a particularly close one. China carried out 15 orbital launches in 2010: the same number as the US, and more than India, Japan, and South Korea combined. Moreover, both India and South Korea suffered launch failures in 2010, including back-to-back failures of India’s GSLV, raising doubts about Indian plans for launching humans by the middle of the decade. Japan, while suffering no launch failures, is instead facing fiscal pressures after government officials there rejected a proposed modest budget increase for the space agency JAXA. </span><span class="underline">China’s increasing capabilities in space have come at a time when the United States has shown renewed interest in cooperating with China on space issues</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In October, NASA administrator Charles Bolden visited China and met with some of their leading space officials. Those meetings, though, and other efforts, including a mention of cooperation in space exploration in a joint statement after the November 2009 meeting of President </span><span class="underline">Obama and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> China’s President </span><span class="underline">Hu</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Jintao, </span><span class="underline">have yet to result in concrete activities between the two countries. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Why is that? </span><span class="underline">One expert on </span>China’s space program believes<span class="underline"> the problem is that </span>China doesn’t need to cooperate with the US<span class="underline"> as much as American officials think it does.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Gregory </span><span class="underline">Kulacki, senior analyst and China project manager for the Union of Concerned Scientists, said</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at a forum in Washington last month that China’s space efforts were kicked into high gear by President Ronald Reagan’s 1983 speech announcing the Strategic Defense Initiative. “The United States was going to make another Kennedy-sized investment in this whole area of technology and China just could not be left behind,” he said. If China didn’t invest in space, “in the way the scientists put it in their letter to Deng Xiaoping, [it] ‘would make us a second-rate power again.’</span><span class="underline">” </span>China’s space capabilities<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, therefore, </span>are tied<span class="underline"> closely </span>to their national prestige<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and status, he said. </span><span class="underline">That growth in capabilities in the following three decades means that, </span>from a technical perspective, there’s little incentive for China to cooperate<span class="underline"> with the US on space issues</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Kulacki argued. “</span>We need to get past the idea that the Chinese need us<span class="underline"> more than we need them,”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Kulacki said. “We have to find something of value to bring to China if China is going to be enthusiastic about our efforts to engage them on this.” However, the US has been unwilling to offer anything of value, thus the limited prospects for cooperation. “The United States doesn’t want to bring anything major to the table, but </span><span class="underline">the Chinese need something major on the table in order for cooperation to get started,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">” Kulacki said. What could that “major” thing be? He suggested some kind of unspecified civil space project: “Somewhere to go together, something to do together, something to build; an actual, important project.” That could be especially difficult now, as Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), a leading critic of China’s human rights record, takes over as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee with oversight of NASA’s budget.</span>

The impact is US-Sino nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">PhD and Research Associate @ MIT,</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">8</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">The United States has five satellites in geostationary orbit that detect missile launches</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> using the heat released from their exhaust plumes. These satellites are primarily used to alert US nuclear forces to massive nuclear attacks on the homeland. However, in recent years, they have played an increasing role in conventional conflicts, such as both Gulf Wars, by cueing tactical missile defenses like the Patriot missile defense systems that gained fame in their engagements with Saddam’s SCUD missiles. Because of this new use, </span>China might find it useful to attack<span class="underline"> them </span>with ASATs<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Since there are only five of them, China could destroy the entire constellation but at the cost of diverting some of the few available deep-space ASATs from other targets. Of course, China would not have to attack all five but could limit its attack to the three that simultaneously view the Taiwan Straits area. If China did decide to destroy these early warning satellites, </span><span class="underline">it would greatly reduce the area covered by US missile defenses in Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> against SCUD and longer range missiles. This is because the area covered by a theater missile defense system is highly dependent on the warning time it has; the greater the warning time, the more effective the missile defense system’s radar is. Thus a Patriot battery, which might ordinarily cover the capital of Taiwan, could be reduced to just defending the military base it was stationed at. Some analysts believe that </span><span class="underline">China would gain a tremendous propaganda coup</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by having a single missile make it through US defenses </span><span class="underline">and thus might consider this use of its deep-space ASATs highly worthwhile</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even if it could not increase the probability of destroying military targets. On the other hand, China would run a tremendous risk of the US believing it was under a more general nuclear attack if China did destroy these early warning satellites. Throughout the history of the Cold War, the US has had a policy of only launching a “retaliatory” nuclear strike if an incoming attack is detected by both early warning satellites and radars. Without the space leg of the early warning system, </span>the odds of the US misinterpreting some missile launch<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that it detected with radar as a nuclear attack </span>would be greatly increased even if the US did not view<span class="underline"> the satellite </span>destruction as<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a </span><span class="underline">sufficiently </span>threatening<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> attack </span><span class="underline">all by themselves. </span>Such a misinterpretation is not without precedent<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In 1995, Russia’s early warning radars viewed a NASA sounding rocket launch off the coast of Norway and flagged it as a possible Trident missile launch. Many analysts believe that Russia was able to not respond only because it had a constellation of functioning early warning satellites. </span>Any Chinese attacks on US<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">early warning </span>satellites would risk<span class="underline"> both intentional and mistaken </span>escalation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the conflict </span>into a nuclear war<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> without a clear military goal.</span>
Extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cheong</span>, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span><span class="underline">a cross-strait war escalating into a </span>full-scale war between the US and China<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then </span><span class="underline">a full-scale war </span>becomes unavoidable<span class="underline">. </span>Conflict<span class="underline"> on such a scale </span>would embroil other countries<span class="underline"> far and near and -horror of horrors -</span>raise the possibility of a nuclear war<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore</span><span class="underline">. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And the conflagration may not end there as </span><span class="underline">opportunistic </span>powers elsewhere may<span class="underline"> try to </span>overturn the existing world order<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability</span><span class="underline">, </span>there is little hope of winning<span class="underline"> a war against China</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 50 years later</span><span class="underline">, </span>short of using nuclear weapons<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities</span><span class="underline">. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, </span>we would see the destruction of civilization<span class="underline">.</span>

Independently, perceived vulnerability in space causes a strike on China that leads to escalation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis</span>, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, <span style="font-size: 16px;">7</span> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait would entail serious deterrence and crisis instabilities. If such a clash were to compel Beijing to attack US space systems at the beginning of a war,</span><span class="underline"> the very </span>prospect of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such</span><span class="underline"> a ‘space Pearl Harbor</span>’<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">94</span>could<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in turn, </span>provoke the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>to contemplate pre-emptive attacks<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or horizontal escalation </span>on<span class="underline"> the </span>Chinese mainland<span class="underline">. Such outcomes would be particularly likely in</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a conflict in </span><span class="underline">the next decade</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, before Washington has the opportunity to invest fully in redundant space capabilities. Already, US Strategic Command officials have publicly signalled that conventionally armed Trident submarine- launched ballistic missiles would be appropriate weapons for executing the prompt strikes that might become necessary in such a contingency.95 </span>Such attacks<span class="underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even if employing only conventional warheads, on space launch sites, sensor nodes and command and control installations on the Chinese mainland </span>could<span class="underline"> well </span>be perceived as<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a precursor to an </span>all-out war. It would be difficult<span class="underline"> for all sides </span>to limit<span class="underline"> the </span>intensification of such<span class="underline"> a </span>conflict, even without<span class="underline"> the added complications of </span>accidents<span class="underline"> and further misperception.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">96</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 16px; text-align: left;">Contention 3 is solvency.</span>
Plan solves - causes overall US low-earth orbit dominance and doesn’t prevent economic activity
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 3</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Space Weapons: Are They Needed?,” From Chapter 2: Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21st Century, October, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">By using its current and near-term capacities, </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>should<span class="underline"> endeavor at once to </span>seize military control of low-earth orbit<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. From that high ground vantage, near the top of the Earth’s gravity well, </span>space-based laser<span class="underline"> or kinetic energy weapons </span>could prevent any other state from deploying assets<span class="underline"> there, and could most effectively engage and destroy terrestrial enemy ASAT facilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Other states should still be able to enter space relatively freely for the purpose of engaging in commerce, in keeping with the capitalist principles of the new regime</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Just as in the sea dominance eras of the Athenians and British before them, </span>the military space forces of the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>would<span class="underline"> have to </span>create and maintain a safe operating environment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(from pirates and other interlopers, perhaps from debris) </span><span class="underline">to </span>enhance trade and exploration<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Only those spacecraft that provide advance notice of their mission and flight plan would be permitted in space, however. </span>The military control of low Earth orbit would be<span class="underline"> for all practical purposes </span>a police blockade<span class="underline"> of all current spaceports, monitoring and controlling all traffic both in and out.</span>

Space missile defense is key to effective BMD and can shoot down a missile anywhere on the globe
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span class="underline">There is ample reason for concern. The threat environment confronting the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">in the twenty-first century differs fundamentally from</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that of </span><span class="underline">the Cold War era. </span>An unprecedented number of<span class="underline"> international </span>actors have now acquired<span class="underline"> – or are seeking to acquire – </span>ballistic missiles and [WMD]<span class="underline"> weapons of mass destruction. </span>Rogue states<span class="underline">, chief among them </span>North Korea and Iran, place a premium on the acquisition of [NCB]<span class="underline"> nuclear, chemical, and biological </span>weapons<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the means to deliver them, </span><span class="underline">and these states are moving rapidly toward that goal. </span>Russia and China<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, traditional competitors of the United States, </span>continue to expand<span class="underline"> the range and sophistication of </span>their<span class="underline"> strategic </span>arsenals<span class="underline"> at a time </span>when the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>debates deep reductions<span class="underline"> in its strategic nuclear forces</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> beyond those already made since the end of the Cold War and has no current modernization program. With a new administration, furthermore, </span>the future development of<span class="underline"> even </span>our limited [MD]<span class="underline"> missile defense </span>system is in question<span class="underline">. Furthermore, </span>a number of asymmetric threats – including<span class="underline"> the possibility of </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">weapons of mass destruction</span>(WMD) acquisition by terrorist groups or<span class="underline"> the devastation of American critical infrastructure as a result of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> electromagnetic pulse (</span>EMP<span class="underline">) – </span>now pose a direct challenge to<span class="underline"> the safety and security of </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates. Moreover, the number and sophistication of these </span>threats are evolving at a pace that no longer allows<span class="underline"> the luxury of </span>long lead times for<span class="underline"> the development and deployment of </span>defenses<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In order </span>to address these<span class="underline"> increasingly complex and multifaceted </span>dangers, the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>must move<span class="underline"> well </span>beyond<span class="underline"> the </span>initial missile defense deployments<span class="underline"> of recent years </span>to deploy a system capable of comprehensively protecting the<span class="underline"> American </span>homeland<span class="underline"> as well as U.S. overseas </span>forces and allies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from the threat of ballistic missile attack. </span>U.S. defenses<span class="underline"> also </span>must<span class="underline"> be able to </span>dissuade<span class="underline"> would-be missile possessors from costly </span>investments in missile tech<span class="underline">nologies, </span>and to deter<span class="underline"> future </span>adversaries from confronting the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates with WMD</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or ballistic missiles. </span><span class="underline">America’s strategic objective should be to make it impossible for any adversary to influence U.S. decision making in times of conflict through the use of ballistic missiles</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or WMD blackmail based on the threat to use such capabilities. </span>These priorities necessitate the deployment of a system capable of<span class="underline"> constant </span>defense against<span class="underline"> a </span>wide range of threats in all phases of flight<span class="underline">: boost, midcourse, and terminal</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A layered system – encompassing ground-based (area and theater anti-missile assets) and sea-based capabilities – can provide multiple opportunities to destroy incoming missiles in various phases of flight. </span>A truly global capability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, however, </span>cannot be achieved without<span class="underline"> a [</span>MD<span class="underline">] </span>missile defense<span class="underline"> architecture incorporating interdiction capabilities </span>in space<span class="underline"> as one of its key operational elements. In the twenty-first century, space has replaced the seas as the ultimate frontier </span>for<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> commerce, technology, and </span>national security. [SBMD]<span class="underline"> Space-based missile defense </span>affords maximum opportunities for interception in boost phase before<span class="underline"> rocket </span>boosters have released warheads and decoys<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or penetration aids. </span>The benefits<span class="underline"> of space-based defense </span>are manifold<span class="underline">. The deployment of </span>a robust global [MD]<span class="underline"> missile defense</span> that includes space<span class="underline">-based interdiction </span>capabilities will make more expensive, and therefore less attractive, the<span class="underline"> foreign </span>development of offensive<span class="underline"> ballistic </span>missile tech<span class="underline">nologies</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> needed to overcome it. Indeed, the enduring lesson of the ABM Treaty era is that the absence of defenses, rather than their presence, empowers the development of offensive technologies that can threaten American security and the lives of American citizens. And access to space, as well as space control, is key to future U.S. efforts to provide disincentives to an array of actors seeking such power. </span>

Space weapons are technologically viable—feasibility objections are based on current budgets and other factors that are easily changed.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]], EMM)</span>
Space Weapons Are Possible<span class="underline">:</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Arguments in the first category spill the most ink in opposition, but are relatively easy to dispose of, especially the more radical variants. </span><span class="underline">History is littered with prophesies of technical and scientific inadequacy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, such as Lord Kelvin’s famous retort, ‘Heavier-than air flying machines are impossible.’ Kelvin, a leading physicist and then president of the Royal Society, made this boast in 1895, and no less an inventor than Thomas Edison concurred. </span>The possibility of spaceflight prompted even<span class="underline"> more </span>gloomy pessimism.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A New York Times editorial in 1921 (an opinion it has since retracted), excoriated Robert Goddard for his silly notions of rocket-propelled space exploration. ‘Goddard does not know the relation between action and reaction and the need to have something better than a vacuum against which to react. He seems to lack the basic knowledge ladled out daily in high schools.’ Compounding its error in judgment, in 1936, the Times stated flatly, “A rocket will never be able to leave the Earth’s atmosphere.” We have learned much, it would seem, or else </span>bluntly negative scientific opinion on space weapons has been weeded out over time<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Less encompassing arguments are now the rule. As the debate moved completely away from the impossibility of weapons and wars in space to more subtle and scientifically sustainable </span>arguments that a<span class="underline"> particular </span>space weapon is not feasible<span class="underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">mountains of mathematical formulae are piled high in an effort, one by one, simply to bury the concept. But these limitations on specific systems </span>are less due to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> theoretical </span>analysis than to assumptions about future funding<span class="underline"> and available technology. The real objection</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, too often hidden from view, </span><span class="underline">is that a particular weapons system or capability cannot be developed and deployed within the planned budget, or within narrowly specified means. </span>When one relaxes those assumptions, opposition on technical grounds falls away<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The devil may very well be in the details, but if one’s stance opposing an entire class of weapons is premised upon analyses that show particular weapons will not work … what happens when a fresh concept or new technology cannot be disproved? If one bases policy decisions on discrediting the particulars of proposed operations, what happens when technology X, the unexpected (perhaps unforeseeable) scientific breakthrough that changes all notions of current capabilities, inevitably arrives? Have we thought out the details enough we can say categorically that no technology will allow for a viable space weapons capability? If so, then the argument is pat; no counter is possible. </span><span class="underline">But, if there are technologies or conditions that could allow for the successful weaponization of space, then ought we not argue the policy details first, lest we be swept away by a course of action that merely chases the technology wherever it may go? </span>

Arms control or codes of conduct will fail - they only allow challengers to outpace us and put our satellites in jeopardy
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kueter, 07</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> - </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">is president of the George C. Marshall Institute, a nonprofit think tank dediicated to science and technology in public policy (Jeff, New Atlantis, “China's Space Ambitions -- And Ours,” Spring, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Setting aside such semantic quibbling, the real challenge now facing the United States is how best to deter, deny, and dissuade the Chinese, and other emerging space powers, from hostile actions in space. One approach would involve diplomacy and international discussions. For some time, arms-control advocates have been pushing for agreements to ban weapons in space. More recently, </span><span class="underline">in light of the changed circumstances brought on by China's tests, the focus has shifted to securing "codes of conduct" and devising "rules of the road" to regulate how nation-states behave in space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Sympathetically interpreting China's recent tests as an understandable reaction to U.S. policies, </span><span class="underline">arms-control advocates have characterized American actions in space as dangerous and provocative, and have condemned the United States for refusing to enter into international negotiations. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Only a treaty, they argue, can restrain the Americans' aggressive tendencies. As one arms-control advocate told the Washington Post, the Chinese were responding to U.S. space policies and sending a signal to the Pentagon: "We can play this game, too, and we can play it dirtier than you." Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts, told the Post that the United States must initiate "an international agreement to ban the development, testing, and deployment of space weapons and anti-satellite systems." This attitude--</span><span class="underline">blaming America for other countries' actions and demanding that the United States preemptively disarm itself--is reminiscent of the old Cold War debates over nuclear weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Also strikingly familiar to students of the Cold War is </span>Beijing's hypocritical hand-wringing over the specter of an arms race in<span class="underline">, and the </span>weaponization of, <span class="underline">outer </span>space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As Michael Pillsbury has pointed out, "</span><span class="underline">While China has publicly assumed a leadership position in international activities to ban space weapons, </span>there is an active group within China<span class="underline"> not only advocating the weaponization of space but also </span>putting forth<span class="underline"> specific </span>proposals for<span class="underline"> implementation of a </span>Chinese space<span class="underline">-based </span>weapons<span class="underline"> program.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" Even while the PLA was successfully executing at least two anti-satellite tests, the Chinese diplomatic corps was raging against the supposed weaponization of space by the United States. At a U.N. conference on space in 2006, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official, Tang Guoqiang, complained about actions in space that could "cause serious consequences": "The policy of a certain country [i.e., the United States] to test, deploy and use weapons and weapon systems in outer space [is] disconcerting. Outer space is the common heritage of mankind and [the] weaponization of outer space is bound to trigger off [an] arms race in outer space, thus rendering outer space a new arena for military confrontation." Even after the January 2007 ASAT test, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official insisted that countries "opposed to the weaponization of space" should "join hands to realize this goal." </span><span class="underline">Existing treaties allow actions to protect and defend national interests in space. Article IV of the Outer Space Treaty forbids signatories </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(including the United States and China)</span><span class="underline">from placing nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction in orbit or on the Moon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and prohibits the testing of weapons, conduct of maneuvers, or construction of fortifications on the Moon and other celestial bodies. Since October 1967, when the treaty went into force, nearly every U.S. president has interpreted its requirements in such a way as to explicitly allow the development, operation, and maintenance of the space-control capabilities needed to ensure freedom of action in space and to deny such freedom of action to adversaries. During successive administrations of both political parties, the National Security Council has interpreted the treaty as not barring the deployment of space-based missile defenses or other systems to perform space-control missions. Work to draft new treaties continues apace. </span><span class="underline">China and Russia have been spearheading international efforts to construct a framework to govern space. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space (PAROS) process at the U.N. Conference on Disarmament calls for formal negotiations to prohibit the placement of weapons in orbit or on celestial bodies. </span><span class="underline">But </span>whatever shreds of credibility<span class="underline"> this </span>international process had were destroyed by<span class="underline"> the recent </span>Chinese tests.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Another diplomatic tack contemplated by those opposed to "weaponizing space" is the adoption of </span><span class="underline">multilateral </span>codes of conduct<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. To a certain extent, such norms will develop organically on their own, as the growing interdependence between economic and security interests forces government and commercial satellite operators to cooperate, and as Washington increasingly coordinates its space activities with military and civil space authorities in allied and friendly nations. Over time, new norms for shared space situational awareness, debris mitigation, and orbital traffic management may emerge among responsible space-faring nations. But such norms </span>make no sense if the parties have not<span class="underline"> first </span>built up trust<span class="underline">. And if such norms are externally imposed, </span>they will be nothing more than unverifiable arms control agreements<span class="underline"> in camouflage. </span>Absent the ability to<span class="underline"> ascertain or </span>enforce compliance, a code-of-conduct<span class="underline"> rule </span>regime will be weak and<span class="underline">, more likely than not, </span>ineffectual<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">A rules system for space between potential adversaries that relies on voluntary compliance and lacks viable punitive measures will be a hollowone.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Nor, for that matter, would an international treaty "banning" anti-satellite testing be enforceable or verifiable; the ignominious record of enforcing and verifying treaties prohibiting activities on Earth should be proof enough of that.) </span><span class="underline">The chief failing of the diplomatic approach to dealing with the new reality of space weapons is that it is blind to the reason a potential adversary like </span>China<span class="underline"> would </span>seek<span class="underline"> access to space in the first place--namely, the desire </span>to be able to inflict a<span class="underline"> crippling </span>blow against U.S. military and economic might<span class="underline"> by decapitating its surveillance and communications abilities. </span>Those pushing for a<span class="underline"> new </span>treaty<span class="underline"> or a code of conduct </span>have yet to explain why China would abandon capabilities that threaten<span class="underline"> the "soft underbelly" of </span>American military power<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>The Chinese<span class="underline"> regime clearly </span>aspires to develop<span class="underline"> such </span>capabilities; there is little reason to believe it would negotiate them away<span class="underline">. The United States should resist calls for such futile diplomatic efforts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==ORS Aff== 
Plan: The United States Federal Government should fully fund and pursue Operationally Responsive Space, which entails satellite hardening, space situational awareness, satellite reconstitution, small satellite development and fast-launch mechanisms.

Contention I: Inherency
The House bill reduced ORS’s budget, long term ORS funding critical for the Aerospace Industry and economy
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Messier, 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Doug Messier, communications expert and graduate of the International Space University and holds a B.A, Managing Editor of ParabolicArc.com - a site that covers commercial space. June 26, 2011 at 7:39 AM. Parabolic Arc. “AIA Protests Cuts in National Security Space Programs”. http://www.parabolicarc.com/2011/06/26/aia-protests-cuts-national-security-space-programs/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AIA — </span><span class="underline">The Aerospace Industries Association is concerned about substantial </span>cuts to national security space programs<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the fiscal year 2012 House Defense Appropriations bill. “We understand the need for belt-tightening in today’s economic climate,” said </span><span class="underline">AIA President and CEO</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Marion C. </span>Blakey<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. “However, we </span><span class="underline">are deeply concerned that the cuts to national security space</span> go too far<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” </span><span class="underline">National security space </span>systems provideessential capabilities such as<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> global satellite communications; access to space; positioning, navigation and timing; environmental monitoring; </span>O<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">perationally </span>R<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">esponsive </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">pace </span>support to the warfighter; situational awareness and missile warning. Stable funding for these mission areas is critical<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Research and development in </span>the House bill<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> was </span>reduced<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by $2 billion with some </span><span class="underline">individual </span>programstaking significant cuts<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Overall, </span>the bill<span class="underline">’s reductions for space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, not including classified </span><span class="underline">programs, total</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> nearly </span><span class="underline">$600 million</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. AIA believes </span><span class="underline">such a significant cut</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on this sector </span>would pose economic and national security challenges<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> because of the vital importance of space capabilities in both areas. “</span>Long-term funding<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, block buys </span>and stability are<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more </span>critical<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than ever </span>to maintain<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> cutting-edge, cost-effective </span>space programs and a healthy national security space industrial base<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” Blakey said. “Cuts of this magnitude risk the loss of skilled workforce and the capability to design and build the space assets on which our warfighters and economy depend.” AIA urges full funding for: The fiscal year 2012 budget request for national security space programs of $10.2 billion in addition to support of stable RDT&E funding required for development of future capabilities. The Evolutionary Acquisition for Space Efficiency initiative, which will increase stability in the space industrial base. The Operationally Responsive Space initiative consistent with the fiscal year 2011 appropriation of $93.9 million to mature new capabilities to provide rapid support to the warfighter.</span>

Recent ORS launch triggers your DA's, but further development critical to effective warfighting capabilities
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brewin, 9/26</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Bob, 9/26/11, “New satellite could revolutionize battlefield communications,” Nextgov News, Editor-At-Large at Executive Government News, over 20 years experience in defense reporting, JPL)</span>
<span class="underline">The </span>Naval Research Laboratory<span class="underline"> on Tuesday </span>launched an experimental<span class="underline">, $75 million </span>satellite that U.S. ground forces can use for<span class="underline"> on-the-move </span>communications<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">with standard military handheld or back radios. The Tactical Satellite-4 (TacSat-4) will zoom around Earth in an elliptical orbit at altitudes ranging from 435 miles to 7,470 miles, keeping the spacecraft far closer than the 22,000-mile orbit of geostationary communications satellites, </span>according to<span class="underline"> the </span>O<span class="underline">perationally </span>R<span class="underline">esponsive </span>S<span class="underline">pace </span>Office<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at Kirtland Air Force Base, N.M., </span>which funded the launch<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and first six months of use. Michael Hurley, head of spacecraft development for the Naval Research Lab, said in an email from the TacSat-4 launch site in Kodiak, Alaska, the low orbits will allow ground forces for the first time to communicate with a military satellite using omnidirectional antennas on their radios while on the move, rather than stopping to set up a satellite antenna. TacSat-4, Hurley said, will support troops in Afghanistan equipped with An/PRC-148 and AN-PRC-152 handheld radios, manufactured by Thales and Harris respectively, and the Harris AN/PRC-117 backpack radio, as well as the AN/PSC-5 portable satellite terminal from Raytheon fielded to Special Forces units. Hurley said all these radios communicate with TacSat-4 in one of 10 channels in the 240-318 MHz band, which is also used by the Defense Department's geostationary ultra-high frequency satellite constellation. The experimental satellite serves as a "bent-pipe" to passively relay signals from one of these radios to another, Hurley said. To connect to Defense networks, most users would have to be within about 1,000 miles of a TacSat-4-specific ground terminal -- either the In-Theater Ground Terminal, currently located at Blossom Point, Md., or five portable ground terminals, positioned throughout the United States during the first year of tests.</span><span class="underline"> Army and Marine Corps </span>ground forces<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> deployed in Afghanistan "</span>strongly support" TacSat-4<span class="underline">, which will fill in areas that </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">currently </span><span class="underline">lack satellite coverage, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Hurley said. But, due to its elliptical orbit, the satellite will not provide 24-hour-a-day coverage. Kabul will get up to four passes a day, ranging from 50 minutes to 2 1/2 hours, he said. </span>It would take between three and four spacecraft to provide 24-7 coverage<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, depending on the locations of interest, </span>and no follow-on procurement<span class="underline"> for TacSat-4 </span>has been funded<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Hurley said. TacSat-4 has a lifespan of about three years, he said, and </span><span class="underline">the </span>O<span class="underline">perationally </span>R<span class="underline">esponsive </span>S<span class="underline">pace </span>Office<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the Defense satellite acquisition community </span>will evaluate the performanc<span class="underline">e and user feedback from TacSat-4 to determine if follow-on birds will be procured</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Defense </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/0108/012208bb1.htm|established]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the Operationally Responsive Space Office in 2007 and previously backed development of an imaging and signals intelligence satellites. Peter Wegner, director of the Office, said TacSat-4 will "open some eyes as to what small satellites can do in providing big time capabilities to the warfighter . . . </span>Being able to communicate on the move<span class="underline"> with a handheld, legacy military radio </span>is huge. This capability does not<span class="underline"> currently </span>exist<span class="underline">."</span>
Contention II: China
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">China is weaponizing space and pursuing offensive military space capabilities with goals to become a global hegemon</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">McGinnis, 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Maginnis, Colonel and Foreign Affairs Analyst, 11 (Col. Bob Maginnis is an internationally known security and foreign affairs analyst often seen on CNN and Fox News, almost daily heard on a number of radio networks and quoted in the print press. After retiring from the US Army in 1993, Bob joined the Family Research Council rising to the position of VP for policy. Since 2002, he has worked with the US Army on multinational activities. “China masking huge military build-up.” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://resource.prophecytoday.com/2011/04/china-masking-huge-military-buildup.html]]</span>. April 7th, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Red Alert: </span>China is sending misleading messages about <span class="underline">its massive </span>military buildup<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Last week China’s Communist regime published the every-second-year edition of its defense white paper, “China’s National Defense in 2010,” which claims to promote transparency in its defense planning and deepen international trust, and asserts that its security policy is defensive in nature. But the paper’s messages are not supported by the facts. Consider five of the many misleading messages embedded in the 30-page defense white paper. First, “China attaches great importance to military transparency,” the paper claims. The Pentagon takes issue with that view in a report, stating, “</span><span class="underline">The limited </span>transparency in China’s <span class="underline">military and security </span>affairs enhances uncertainty and increases <span class="underline">the </span>potential for <span class="underline">misunderstanding and </span>miscalculation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” </span><span class="underline">China fails the transparency test by </span>understating its defense spending<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The Pentagon’s 2010 report on China’s military estimates Beijing’s total military-related spending for 2009 was more than $150 billion, but the white paper claims it spent about half that amount, $75.56 billion (495.11 billion RMB). The difference, according to the Pentagon, is due to the fact that China’s defense budget “does not include major categories of expenditure,” but the report fails to identify those categories. China’s defense spending increased annually for more than two decades, but the white paper states, “The growth rate of defense expenditure has decreased.” That statement is refuted by China’s official 2011 defense budget, which is $92 billion, up 12.7% from 2010, which grew from 7.5% during the previous year. </span><span class="underline">The Pentagon report also states </span>China isn’t transparent regarding<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its growing force-projection capabilities. For example, the so-called transparent white paper does not mention </span><span class="underline">Beijing’s </span>plan to deploy an aircraft<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">carrier </span><span class="underline">known to be under construction</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A question about the carrier was posed at the press conference announcing the white paper, but was never answered. Second, “The Chinese government has advocated from the outset the peaceful use of outer space, and opposes any weaponization of outer space,” according to the white paper. China’s anti-space weaponization view hasn’t stopped it from developing its own space weapon, however. The white paper makes no mention of </span>China’s <span class="underline">2007 successful</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> direct-ascent anti-satellite (</span>ASAT<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) weapons </span>test<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which destroyed its own satellite in space. “The test </span>raised questions <span class="underline">about China’s capability</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and intention to attack U.S. satellites,” according to a Congressional Research Service (CRS) report. The Pentagon’s report states, "</span><span class="underline">China continues to develop and refine this [ASAT] system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which is one component of a multidimensional program to limit or prevent the use of space-based assets by potential adversaries during times of crisis or conflict.” The report also indicates China is developing kinetic and directed-energy weapons for ASAT missions. Gen. Xu Qiliang, </span>commander of China’s air force<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, appears to confirm the Pentagon’s analysis. He </span>said<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in 2009 that </span>military competition extending to space is “inevitable” <span class="underline">andemphasized the transformation </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of China’s air force </span><span class="underline">into one</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that “integrates air and space” </span><span class="underline">with</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> both “</span><span class="underline">offensive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [read </span><span class="underline">ASAT</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">] and defensive” </span><span class="underline">capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, according to the Pentagon’s report. Third, “China firmly opposes the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction [WMD] and their means of delivery.” The paper also states “nonproliferation issues should be resolved through political and diplomatic means” and then cites as examples the nuclear crises with North Korea and Iran. Even though China is a signatory to various nonproliferation treaties, it is arguably the world’s biggest WMD supplier. A March 2011 CRS report states, “China has been a ‘key supplier’ of technology … providing nuclear and missile-related technology to Pakistan and missile-related technology to Iran.” CRS documents China’s proliferation activities beginning in 1982. It transferred sensitive material and tools for making atomic bombs to Pakistan such as uranium hexafluoride gas, ring magnets, and “high-tech diagnostic equipment." Pakistan then sold that technology to Iran, North Korea, and Libya, according to then- CIA Director George Tenet. Fourth, “China pursues a national defense policy which is defensive in nature.” The white paper also claims, “China unswervingly takes the road of peaceful development.” But </span>China’s weapons-building spree confirms it seeks <span class="underline">a significant </span>offensive capacity, and its military action identifies it as a regional hegemon<span class="underline">, not a peaceful neighbor</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Three weapons platforms strongly suggest China seeks a robust offensive capacity. In January, while Secretary of Defense Robert Gates visited Beijing, the Chinese military tested a J-20 fifth-generation stealth fighter. That sophisticated platform is primarily for undetected, long-range offensive operations and shares state-of-the-art technology with the F-22 Raptor, America’s best fighter. In December, Adm. Robert Willard, the commander of U.S. Pacific Command, told the Asahi Shimbun, a Japanese newspaper, China is developing an anti-ship ballistic missile (ASBM) known as an “aircraft carrier killer.” The 1,500-mile range DF-21 ASBM is an offensive platform that uses a space-based maritime surveillance and targeting system that permits it to strike moving warships at sea.  China also plans to build a fleet of aircraft carriers this decade, according to the Pentagon report. It already has the ex-Varyag—a former soviet Kuznetsovclass aircraft carrier in the Dalian shipyard—and a program to train pilots operating fixed-wing aircraft from a carrier. China is using its sophisticated blue-water navy, which numbers 260 vessels, including 75 major warships and more than 60 submarines, to expand its sphere of influence through intimidation, especially in the South China Sea, which some Chinese officials label a “core interest.” Last year, the New York Times reported Chinese officials told Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg that China would not tolerate “foreign interference” in the South China Sea, and its actions back up that view. China’s navy aggressively seizes fishing boats near contested South China Sea islands hundreds of miles from the mainland and harasses Japanese aircraft and ships in the East China Sea near Japanese islands. That aggression is not limited to regional players, however. Starting in 2000, China became provocative toward American naval forces. In 2001, a Chinese fighter collided with a U.S. Navy aircraft, forcing the American crew to land at China’s Hainan Island.  Harassment on the sea is more common. From 2001 to 2009, Chinese warships and aircraft harassed and threatened the USNSBowditch, USNS Sumner, USNS Impeccable, and the USNS Victorious. In 2006, a Chinese Song-class submarine surfaced dangerously near the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk. In each case, China violated international law. Finally, “China maintains that the global missile defense program will be detrimental to international strategic balance and stability [and] no state should deploy overseas missile defense systems [ballistic missile defense] …” This hypocritical comment is targeted at the U.S., which has both land- and sea-based systems. America’s sea-based Aegis ballistic missile defense (BMD) systems often sail near North Korea’s coast, protecting our allies from China’s rogue partner. Apparently China wants to limit America’s BMD capability until it can acquire one of its own. Currently China has a limited capability against tactical ballistic missiles with ranges up to 300 miles. But the Pentagon report states </span><span class="underline">China is “proceeding with the research and development of </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a </span><span class="underline">missile defense</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ‘umbrella’ consisting of kinetic energy intercept at exo-atmospheric altitudes, as well as intercepts of ballistic missiles and other aerospace vehicles within the upper atmosphere.”  China’s 2010 white paper is chock-full of misleading messages that deny transparency, promote distrust, and demonstrate the regime’s hegemonic ambitions. Unless China changes its actions, America has no choice but to conclude Beijing’s intent is to become the world’s dominant military power.</span>
Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence – multiple adversaries such as China with different military doctrines invite attack
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rendleman, 10</span>- Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)
The<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 11 January 2007 test of a </span>Chinese<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. </span><span class="underline">The 2007 </span>test demonstrated that <span class="underline">the importance of </span>space capabilities is <span class="underline">also </span>their Achilles heel, <span class="underline">that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; </span>it is far too easy to neutralize <span class="underline">space systems and </span>their power<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In the broad strategic context, </span><span class="underline">space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. </span>This invites destruction<span class="underline">, damage, and even just mischief delivered byeven the least significant adversary</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 </span>Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the <span class="underline">ever-growing global </span>availability of tech<span class="underline">nology </span>and access to <span class="underline">the </span>space <span class="underline">domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and the spread of space technologies has occurred. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems. Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution. First, unlike the Cold War era, </span>the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">now </span>confronts <span class="underline">a wide array of global </span>actors<span class="underline">, all operating with different motivations and incentives, some of </span>which could become <span class="underline">potential </span>adversaries who can attack <span class="underline">or threaten </span>space capabilities<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences. </span><span class="underline">Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, </span><span class="underline">potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. But, that </span>supremacy does not <span class="underline">make or </span>guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake <span class="underline">than the United States </span>in <span class="underline">the outcome of </span>a <span class="underline">particular crisis or </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, </span>adversaries <span class="underline">may </span>find threats of U.S. <span class="underline">action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems</span> to be non-credible<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Fourth, </span><span class="underline">while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the direst of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. </span><span class="underline">This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems. </span>This<span class="underline">, predictably, </span>can <span class="underline">now </span>be exploited by <span class="underline">potential </span>adversaries, such as China, who, <span class="underline">with their recent ASAT test</span>, appear <span class="underline">more </span>willing to <span class="underline">fully explore the technologies needed to </span>expand <span class="underline">the limits of conventional </span>war to <span class="underline">include the </span>space <span class="underline">domain</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

Space is the new strategic high ground – 2.5 thousand years of history proves nations will compete
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith, 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span class="underline">It is a </span>rule <span class="underline">in strategy</span>, one derived <span class="underline">empirically </span>from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything ofgreat strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. And </span>the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, disable, capture</span>, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certaintyin the future because <span class="underline">the use of</span> spacein war has<span class="underline">become vital</span>. . . . <span class="underline">Regardless of public sentimental or environmental</span>ly shaped <span class="underline">attitudes</span> towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">20 </span>The strategic value of space to states is not in question. <span class="underline">Advanced </span>spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence<span class="underline">—on space</span>-derived <span class="underline">services</span> <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, </span>the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">21 </span>
Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wortzel, 8</span> - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY
AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)
The PLA is exploring<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research </span><span class="underline">a variety</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of forms </span><span class="underline">of </span>space weapons<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.77 </span><span class="underline">These include</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: . </span>satellite jamming<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">technology; . </span>collisions<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">between space bodies; . kinetic energy weapons; . space-to-ground attack weapons; . space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space; . high-power</span>laser weapons<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">;. high-power microwave weapon systems; . particle-beam weapons; </span>and<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>e<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">lectro</span>m<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">agnetic </span>p<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ulse.78 PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, </span><span class="underline">it is clear that the </span>PLA is serious about space warfare. <span class="underline">The </span>destruction of their<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">own </span>weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">some </span>success<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 </span>The Chinese see their regional position <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in Asia </span>as superior to <span class="underline">that of </span>the U.S. <span class="underline">because the U.S. has to fight</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, communicate, and re-supply </span><span class="underline">alongextended</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> exterior </span><span class="underline">lines</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that</span>in a conflict, they would<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">probably </span><span class="underline">use their jamming and antisatellite systems to </span>disrupt American<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">lines of </span>communication<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, command and control, situational awareness, </span><span class="underline">and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> efforts at </span><span class="underline">coordination</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, </span>an incident could quickly escalate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and get out of control,</span>leading to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">an exchange of weapons or</span>a deeper crisis<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For example, four officers from </span>the PLA<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have </span>published an analysis of how to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">jam or </span>destroy the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">space-based ballistic missile advanced </span>warning systems of the U.S.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that </span><span class="underline">there is no consideration given to a</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> likely </span>America<span class="underline">n reaction</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that </span><span class="underline">it </span>might<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">well </span>think it is coming under <span class="underline">immediate </span>attack and launch<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">its own </span>strike against China<span class="underline">’s strategic missile forces</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although </span>China’s intentions<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">are not fully known, they </span>can be inferred from<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Chinese </span>actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">own weather </span>satellite as a demonstration of capability<span class="underline">. </span>PRC intentions can<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">also </span>be inferred from<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">judicious reviews of</span>its military literature<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, </span>it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as though they may have </span>to fight<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, </span>there are very sound reasons to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">prepare to </span>defend American interests in space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.</span>
We isolate two different impact scenarios

1.) The risk of crisis instability and miscalculation in space is high – the PLA is likely to initiate an attack in a crisis
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MacDonald, 11</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - </span>Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One characteristic of too many </span>wars <span class="underline">in the last century</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is that they </span>are the result of miscalculation <span class="underline">that ignites </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the tinder of fundamental </span><span class="underline">geopolitical tensions</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, </span><span class="underline">the </span>PLA<span class="underline">'s senior officer corps</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall </span>views world events from a less knowledgeable<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and sophisticated </span>perspective<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, a danger in this increasingly complex world, </span>and couldexplain,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">for example</span><span class="underline">, the political "tonedeafness"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the PLA </span><span class="underline">in </span>the manner they conducted their<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2007 </span>ASAT test<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that </span>the PLA is <span class="underline">organizationally </span>separate from the <span class="underline">rest of the </span>Chinese government<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but </span><span class="underline">in a crisis </span>this could be dangerous<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All </span>these problem<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s and many more </span>pose potential threats to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">internal </span>political stability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Communist Party control, </span>providing <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ample </span>opportunity for<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">crisis and </span>conflict <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space </span>Space <span class="underline">assets</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, </span><span class="underline">are the means by which essential</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> national security </span><span class="underline">information is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> either </span><span class="underline">generated</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, transmitted, or both. </span><span class="underline">This </span>information is the lifeblood of U.S. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">conventional </span>military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as well. As such, these </span>space <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">related </span>assets<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can </span>provide dangerously attractive incentives<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in a crisis </span>to preempt, escalating to war<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And </span>there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but </span>the potential for space instability<span class="underline"> seems</span>high and likely to grow<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
That risks miscalc and nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke, 6</span>– Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets**.** One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the </span>Chinese<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, </span><span class="underline">other nations</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">have stated they </span><span class="underline">view the </span>US <span class="underline">reliance on </span>space as <span class="underline">a</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> potential </span>Achilles ’ heel<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and a center of gravity </span>whose destruction<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or disruption </span>is critical to <span class="underline">future </span>military success<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">against the US.44Although a major attack on the US is not likely, </span>the loss of US<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">space-based </span>early warning capability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and ground-based missile warning radars </span>could undermine nuclear deterrence <span class="underline">strategy </span>resulting in a devastating miscalculation<span class="underline">that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The </span>perception that<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">US </span>space capabilities are vulnerable to a<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">surprise </span>attack<span class="underline"> also </span>weakens conventional deterrence<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, </span>the Chinese<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">might </span>seek to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">disrupt or </span>destroy<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">regional space </span>capabilities <span class="underline">as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a //fait accompli//.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 </span><span class="underline">The </span>failure to develop a credible space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">threat </span>warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">US space assets. The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, </span><span class="underline">other nations are working to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to </span><span class="underline">take the lead in</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—</span><span class="underline">information war. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The current </span><span class="underline">coverage gaps in our space surveillance network</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset </span><span class="underline">makes it more likely an adversary could develop a</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nti-</span><span class="underline">sat</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ellite </span><span class="underline">weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> without our knowledge. Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57 </span>

2.) Independently, perceived US vulnerability to a Chinese ASAT attack will cause a preemptive first strike – escalates to nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis, 7</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta) Finally, the growing Chinese capability AND of accidents and further misperception.96</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait would entail serious deterrence and crisis instabilities. If such a clash were to compel Beijing to attack US space systems at the beginning of a war,</span> __<span class="underline">the very </span>prospect of__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such</span> __a ‘space Pearl Harbor’__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">94 </span>could<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in turn, </span>provoke the U__nited States to contemplate pre-emptive attacks__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or horizontal escalation </span><span class="underline">on the Chinese mainland. Such outcomes would be particularly likely in</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a conflict in </span><span class="underline">the next decade</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, before Washington has the opportunity to invest fully in redundant space capabilities. Already, US Strategic Command officials have publicly signalled that conventionally armed Trident submarine- launched ballistic missiles would be appropriate weapons for executing the prompt strikes that might become necessary in such a contingency.95 </span>Such attacks__,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even if employing only conventional warheads, on space launch sites, sensor nodes and command and control installations on the Chinese mainland </span>could<span class="underline"> well </span>be perceived as <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a precursor to an </span>all-out war. It would be difficult for all sides to limit <span class="underline">the </span>intensification<span class="underline"> of such a conflict, even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">96 </span>

China war leads to extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hunkovic, 9</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>
<span class="underline">A </span>war between China<span class="underline">, Taiwan </span>and the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>has <span class="underline">the </span>potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war<span class="underline">, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, </span>if China and the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries <span class="underline">in the world </span>that will not be <span class="underline">economically and/or militarily </span>affected <span class="underline">by it.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>
And, Threats are inevitable - heg is key to global stability and to access every major impact
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thayer</span>, Professor of Strategic Studies, <span style="font-size: 16px;">6</span> - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei­ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri­macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in­terests. But </span>retrenchment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in any of its guis­es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that </span>would lead to<span class="underline"> far greater </span>instability and war<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa­bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa­bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri­macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action­ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur­ing </span><span class="underline">American primacy takes as its starting point the protec­tion of </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like</span><span class="underline"> oil flow around the world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, that the </span><span class="underline">global trade and monetary regimes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re­trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, </span><span class="underline">retrenchment will make the United States less secure</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because </span>threats will exist no mat­ter what role America chooses to play<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in international politics. Washington can­not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. </span><span class="underline">Whether they are terror­ists, rogue states or rising powers,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his­tory shows that </span><span class="underline">threats must be confront­ed.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus </span>abandoning<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">its </span>commitments<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or making unconvinc­ing half‑pledges to defend its interests and allies, </span>does not mean<span class="underline"> that </span>others will respect American wishes to retreat<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> To make such a declarationimplies </span>weak­ness<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span>emboldens aggression<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, </span><span class="underline">predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna­tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront­ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys­ical, on‑the‑ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing.Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com­mon"‑‑the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space‑allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca­pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today‑-</span>in a world where Ameri­canprimacy is<span class="underline"> clearly</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and unambiguous­ly </span>on display<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--is that </span>countries want to align themselves with the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but </span><span class="underline">because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ­their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America‑-their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements‑and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun­try, or any country, had so many allies. </span><span class="underline">U.S. primacy‑-and the bandwagon­ing effect‑has also given us extensive in­fluence </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability </span><span class="underline">to cre­ate coalitions of like‑minded states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro­liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American‑led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec­tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun­tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac­tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re­sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica­tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases‑‑Venezuela, Iran, Cuba‑it is an anti‑U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin­sically anti‑American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power‑‑Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol­ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con­sider</span><span class="underline"> the current </span>international order<span class="underline"> ‑ free trade, a robust monetary regime, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">increas­ing respect for </span><span class="underline">human rights</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, growing </span><span class="underline">de­mocratization‑‑</span>is directly linked to U.S. power.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons:</span>Appalling things happen when international orders collapse<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">The Dark Ages fol­lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With­out U.S. power, the liberal order</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> cre­ated by the United States </span><span class="underline">will end</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American </span>primacy<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> within the international system </span>causes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> many positive outcomes for Washing­ton and the world. The first has been </span>a more peaceful world<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. During the Cold War, </span>U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela­tionships aligned‑-between </span><span class="underline">Greece </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and </span><span class="underline">Turkey, Israel</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Egypt, South Korea</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Japan, India</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="underline">Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a </span>Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> war's worst form: </span>great power wars<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Second, </span><span class="underline">American power gives the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">the ability to spread de­mocracy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and other elements of its ideol­ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, </span><span class="underline">once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter­ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because </span><span class="underline">they are more open</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, more transparent and more likely to want </span><span class="underline">to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead­ership</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin­istration for attempting to spread democ­racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit­ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta­bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per­haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af­ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat­ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash­ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western‑style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku­wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob­al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character­ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo­bility of capital and labor markets. The </span><span class="underline">economic stability</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and</span><span class="underline"> prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that stems from this economic order is a glob­al public good from which all states ben­efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well‑being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin‑offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca­reer confident in the socialist ideology of post‑independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog­nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free</span><span class="underline"> market economic policies and globaliza­tion</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which</span><span class="underline"> are facilitated through Amer­ican primacy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides</span>.


We solve in two ways:

1.) A firm commitment to ORS is vital to credible deterrence by denial – it will prevent Chinese attacks against US space assets
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sejba, 10</span> - <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span class="underline">The space domain,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> often referred to as “The High Frontier,” </span><span class="underline">no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It is now time to take actions for the </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">sake of space</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. </span>Given <span class="underline">the </span>criticality of space <span class="underline">to not only our military power, but also our economic power, </span>it is time we develop policies and <span class="underline">field </span>capabilities to deter <span class="underline">future </span>adversaries <span class="underline">from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 </span>Should <span class="underline">aspects of </span>deterrence fail, we must <span class="underline">take steps to </span>defend <span class="underline">and protect our </span>space systems <span class="underline">and the critical global services they provide</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">assured </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">… being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So </span><span class="underline">while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the </span>assurance it provides as <span class="underline">a credible strategic </span>deterrentagainst space attacks.<span class="underline"> As a deterrent, </span>ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment <span class="underline">and employment </span>of new capabilities, <span class="underline">denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely </span>ORS capabilities, can <span class="underline">effectively </span>deny <span class="underline">or greatly reduce the </span>benefits they seek by attacking the <span class="underline">asymmetric advantages enabled by </span>space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, </span><span class="underline">ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, </span><span class="underline">a </span>deterrence <span class="underline">strategy that includes the threat </span>of punishment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy </span>is not <span class="underline">directly </span>applicable to space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. </span><span class="underline">Instead,</span>deterrence <span class="underline">for space </span>can only succeed if <span class="underline">our </span>enemies believe we have credible means of denying <span class="underline">the </span>benefits <span class="underline">they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">);9 </span><span class="underline">and encourage their restraint</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A New Focus of Deterrence </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sandra I. Erwin, </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. </span>Deterrence <span class="underline">today </span>can only succeed if <span class="underline">our </span>adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations <span class="underline">even in a contested environment.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 </span><span class="underline">The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. </span>Today, our ability to field ORS <span class="underline">capabilities </span>is minimal <span class="underline">at best</span>, and unconvincing <span class="Emphasis2">as a credible deterrent</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Instead, </span>our adversaries likely perceive great benefit <span class="underline">in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “</span><span class="underline">our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of </span><span class="underline">China</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, </span><span class="underline">called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, </span><span class="underline">to be a true deterrent</span>, ORS must <span class="underline">also </span>win the race <span class="underline">to spacein both the speed and cost of fielding capability </span>versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, <span class="underline">destroy, or deny </span>them<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). </span><span class="underline">Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Expanding ORS will deter Chinese attack against US space assets
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Putman, 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief, DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event</span>
<span class="underline">The U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. </span><span class="underline">The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that </span><span class="underline">efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ,,39 Further, </span><span class="underline">the DoD's Plan for Operationally Responsive Space</span> <span class="underline">highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , </span>ORS provides <span class="underline">a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. </span><span class="underline">Field-ready systems would provide </span>a credible defensive deterrent against <span class="underline">existing and likely </span>Chinese offensive <span class="underline">anti-satellite </span>actions.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness </span>Improving SSA is essential to <span class="underline">the </span>success <span class="underline">of this strategy. The U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Although </span>the<span class="underline"> U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">maintains a significant </span>Space Surveillance Network<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (SSN) network, </span><span class="underline">it </span>lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to <span class="underline">comprehensively </span>predict <span class="underline">the </span>orbits <span class="underline">of all objects in space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">;</span><span class="underline"> the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> February 10, 2009 </span><span class="underline">collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. </span><span class="underline">Improved </span>SSA <span class="underline">also </span>allows the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>to characterize <span class="underline">the resultant </span>debris <span class="underline">field of an anti-satellite attack </span>and <span class="underline">thus </span>support <span class="underline">reactive measures that may be required by </span>other satellites<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions </span><span class="underline">Establishing </span>preplanned actions is key to deterring <span class="underline">and reacting to an anti-satellite </span>attack<span class="underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These </span><span class="underline">orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. </span><span class="underline">If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="underline">enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability </span>The current<span class="underline"> United States Department of Defense</span> launch complex does not have <span class="underline">the </span>capability to rapidly replenish <span class="underline">satellites in the event of destruction.</span> Launch <span class="underline">preparation and execution </span>can take <span class="underline">weeks to </span>months. <span class="underline">The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites </span>The U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>must <span class="underline">also </span>make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common <span class="underline">bus and </span>architecture<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>A single <span class="underline">launch </span>vehicle could <span class="underline">then </span>deploy multiple <span class="underline">small </span>satellites, <span class="underline">allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 </span><span class="underline">Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Finally, </span><span class="underline">small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, </span><span class="underline">defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions.</span> Without hardening, <span class="underline">depending on the size of the constellation, </span>satellite replenishment could <span class="underline">take months and quickly </span>exhaust <span class="underline">satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency </span><span class="underline">The above </span>actions may deter China <span class="underline">from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, </span>but only if executed in a transparent manner<span class="underline">. Systems must be fully trained and tested; </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>must <span class="underline">overtly </span>demonstrate its capability to <span class="underline">rapidly </span>deploy satellites. <span class="underline">China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>China may <span class="underline">then </span>realize <span class="underline">that </span>its actions will have minimal effect<span class="underline"> on US military capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Engagement Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic· missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, </span><span class="underline">the proposed </span>defensive measures will do more than <span class="underline">support </span>deterrence against China<span class="underline">. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.53 </span><span class="underline">Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, </span>proliferation of nuclear <span class="underline">weapon </span>and <span class="underline">ballistic </span>missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist <span class="underline">nation </span>that has little reliance on space <span class="underline">capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, </span><span class="underline">these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. “</span><span class="underline">A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations </span><span class="underline">The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. </span>The DoD's ORS effort <span class="underline">can be used as springboard, but </span>must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58</span>

2.) Swarms of small satellites create redundancy that makes successful attacks against US assets impossible
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Although offense is the dominant form of war in space today, this will not always be the case. </span>Defense is possible<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Three principles will likely guide the development of future space defenses. First, </span>**__if you can't see it, you can't hit it.<span class="underline">Satellites are already getting smaller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—too small for most space surveillance networks to detect and track. This trend will likely continue not only as a matter of cost savings, but also as a matter of stealthy defense. </span><span class="underline">Avoiding detection includes maneuvering satellites to undisclosed wartime orbits</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Second, </span>**__all warfare is based on deception__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.34 </span><span class="underline">Potential </span>adversaries collect intelligence on<span class="underline"> each other's </span>space systems<span class="underline"> and make their estimates based on their intelligence assessments. Action must be taken to deceive potential adversaries into underestimating the value of critical systems and overestimating the value of inconsequential systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In addition, the use of wartime-only modes of operation, frequencies, and other unanticipated behaviors will further complicate an adversary's problems. Third, </span>**__there is strength in numbers.__** **__The age of the capital satellites is over.<span class="underline"> Employing only </span>one<span class="underline"> or two </span>large<span class="underline">, very expensive </span>satellite<span class="underline">s to fulfill a critical mission area, such as reconnaissance, </span>is foolish__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Future space systems must be large constellations of smaller<span class="underline">, cheaper, and, in many cases, lower-fidelity </span>systems<span class="underline"> swarming in various orbits that exploit ground processing to derive high-fidelity solutions. In addition, </span>swarms improveglobal<span class="underline"> access and </span>presence<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Contention III: Aerospace Industry
Commercial space development is vital to preventing terrestrial environmental collapse
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collins and Autino, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>
Economic development in space based on low launch costs could contribute<span class="underline"> greatly, even deﬁnitively,</span> to solving world environmental problems. As a ﬁrst step, <span class="underline">substantially </span>reducing the cost of space travel will reduce the cost of environment-monitoring satellites, thereby improving climate research and environmental policy-making.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">4.1. Space-based solar power supply. A second possibility, which has been researched for several decades but has not yet received funding to enable testing in orbit, is the delivery of continuous solargenerated power from space to Earth. Researchers believe that such space-based solar power (SSP) could supply clean, low-cost energy on a large scale, which is a prerequisite for economic development of poorer countries, while avoiding damaging pollution. However, realisation of SSP requires much lower launch costs, which apparently only the development of a passenger space travel industry could achieve. Hence the development of orbital tourism could provide the key to realising SSP economically [14]. 4.2. Carbon-neutral space travel. Clean energy produced by SSP could eliminate the environmental impact of space travel, and even make it ‘‘carbon neutral’’ if this is considered desirable [25]. Moreover, SSP has a much shorter energy pay-back time than terrestrial solar energy, due to the almost continuous supply of power which it can generate, rather than only in day-time during clear weather. Some critics claim that space travel will become a signiﬁcant environmental burden [26]. However, while superﬁcially correct in the short term, this is the opposite of the truth over the longer term. It would be a dangerous error to prevent the growth of space tourism in order to avoid its initial, minor environmental impact, since this would prevent a range of major beneﬁts in the future, including the supply of lowcost, carbon-neutral SSP, and other space-based industry. 4.3. Space-based industry If orbital travel grows to a scale of millions of passengers/year—as it could by the 2030s, with vigorous investment—it will stimulate the spontaneous growth of numerous businesses in space. These will grow progressively from simple activities such as maintenance of orbiting hotels, to in-space manufacturing using asteroidal minerals. For example, the development of SSP would enable a range of industrial processes using the advantages of space, including high vacuum, weightlessness, low-cost electricity and sources of both minerals and volatile chemicals in shallow gravitational wells. If SSP grows to supply a signiﬁcant share of the terrestrial energy market, more and more industry would operate outside the Earth’s ecological system. While most industries cause growing damage to the Earth’s environment as they grow in scale, industrial activities which are outside the Earth’s ecosystem need not cause any such damage. Hence the growth of space-based industry to large scale offers the longer-term possibility of decoupling economic growth from the limits of the terrestrial environment. Indeed, it has been convincingly argued that only the use of space resources, including especially SSP, offers the possibility of protecting the Earth’s environment while enabling sufﬁcient economic growth to preserve civilised society [22,27].</span>
Resource wars are inevitable and risk extinction. Creating a viable commercial space sector changes the political calculation to go to war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collins and Autino, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>
The major source of<span class="underline"> social friction, including international </span>friction, has<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">surely </span><span class="underline">always </span>been <span class="underline">unequal access to </span>resources<span class="underline">. People ﬁght to control the valuable resources on and under the land, and in and under the sea. The</span> natural resources of Earth are limited <span class="underline">in quantity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and economically accessible resources even more so. </span><span class="underline">As the population grows</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and demand grows for a higher material standard of living, </span><span class="underline">industrial activity grows exponentially.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The threat of resources becoming scarce has led to the concept of ‘‘Resource Wars’’. Having begun long ago with wars to control the gold and diamonds of Africa and South America, and oil in the Middle East, the current phase is at centre stage of world events today [37]. </span><span class="underline">A particular danger of ‘‘</span>resource wars’’ <span class="underline">is that</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, if the general public can be persuaded to support them, </span><span class="underline">they </span>may become impossible to stop as resources become <span class="underline">increasingly </span>scarce<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Many commentators have noted the similarity of the language of US and UK government advocates of ‘‘war on terror’’ to the language of the novel ‘‘1984’’ which describes a dystopian future of endless, fraudulent war in which citizens are reduced to slaves. 7.1. Expansion into near-Earth space is the only alternative to endless ‘‘resource wars’’ </span>As an alternative to the ‘‘resource wars’’ already devastating many countries today, opening access to the unlimited resources of near-Earth space could <span class="underline">clearly </span>facilitate world peace <span class="underline">and security</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The US National Security Space Ofﬁce, at the start of its report on the potential of space-based solar power (SSP) published in early 2007, stated: ‘‘Expanding human populations and declining natural resources are potential sources of local and strategic conﬂict in the 21st Century, and many see energy as the foremost threat to national security’’ [38]. The report ended by encouraging urgent research on the feasibility of SSP: ‘‘Considering the timescales that are involved, and the exponential growth of population and resource pressures within that same strategic period, it is imperative that this work for ‘‘drilling up’’ vs. drilling down for energy security begins immediately’’ [38]. </span><span class="underline">Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources on a substantial scale may still be some decades away, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">it is important to recognise that</span><span class="underline"> simply </span>acknowledging <span class="underline">its </span>feasibility <span class="underline">using known technology </span>is the surest way of ending <span class="underline">the threat of </span>resource wars<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. That is, if it is assumed that the resources available for human use are limited to those on Earth, then it can be argued that resource wars are inescapable [22,37]. </span>If<span class="underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">by contrast,</span><span class="underline"> it is assumed that the </span>resources of space are economically accessible, this<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">not only</span>eliminates the need for resource wars<span class="underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">it can also preserve the beneﬁts of civilisation which are being eroded today by ‘‘resource war-mongers’’, most notably the governments of the ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries and their ‘‘neo-con’’ advisers. It is also worth noting that the $1 trillion that these have already committed to wars in the Middle-East in the 21st century is orders of magnitude more than the public investment needed to aid companies sufﬁciently to start the commercial use of space resources. Industrial and ﬁnancial groups which proﬁt from monopolistic control of terrestrial supplies of various natural resources, like those which proﬁt from wars, have an economic interest in protecting their proﬁtable situation. However, these groups’ continuing proﬁts are justiﬁed neither by capitalism nor by democracy: they could be preserved only by maintaining the pretence that use of space resources is not feasible, and by preventing the development of low-cost space travel. Once the feasibility of low-cost space travel is understood, ‘‘resource wars’’ are clearly foolish as well as tragic. A visiting extra-terrestrial would be pityingly amused at the foolish antics of homo sapiens using longrange rockets to ﬁght each other over dwindling terrestrial resources—rather than using the same rockets to travel in space and have the use of all the resources they need! 7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement </span>Investment in low-cost orbital access <span class="underline">and other space infrastructure </span>will facilitate<span class="underline"> the establishment of </span>settlements<span class="underline"> on the Moon, Mars, asteroids</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and in man-made space structures. In the ﬁrst phase, development of new regulatory infrastructure in various Earth orbits, including property/usufruct rights, real estate, mortgage ﬁnancing and insurance, trafﬁc management, pilotage, policing and other services will enable the population living in Earth orbits to grow very large. Such activities aimed at making near-Earth space habitable are the logical extension of humans’ historical spread over the surface of the Earth. As trade spreads through near-Earth space, settlements are likely to follow, of which the inhabitants will add to the wealth of different cultures which humans have created in the many different environments in which they live. </span><span class="underline">Success of such extra-terrestrial settlements will have </span>the additional beneﬁt of reducing the danger of human extinction due to<span class="underline"> planet-wide or cosmic accidents</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [27]. </span><span class="underline">These horrors include</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> both man-made disasters such as </span>nuclear war, plagues or growing pollution, and natural disasters<span class="underline"> such as super-volcanoes or asteroid impact</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It is hard to think of any objective that is more important than preserving peace. </span><span class="underline">Weapons developed in recent decades are so destructive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and have such horriﬁc, long-term side-effects that</span><span class="underline"> their use should be discouraged as strongly as possible </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">by the international community. Hence,</span>reducing the incentive to use<span class="underline"> these </span>weapons by rapidly developing <span class="underline">the ability to use</span> space-based resources <span class="underline">on a large scale is surely equally important</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [11,16]. The achievement of this depends on low space travel costs which, at the present time, appear to be achievable only through the development of a vigorous space tourism industry.8. Summary As discussed above, if space travel services had started during the 1950s, the space industry would be enormously more developed than it is today. Hence the failure to develop passenger space travel has seriously distorted the path taken by humans’ technological and economic development since WW2, away from the path which would have been followed if capitalism and democracy operated as intended. Technological know-how which could have been used to supply services which are known to be very popular with a large proportion of the population has not been used for that purpose, while waste and suffering due to the unemployment and environmental damage caused by the resulting lack of new industrial opportunities have increased. In response, policies should be implemented urgently to correct this error, and to catch up with the possibilities for industrial and economic growth that have been ignored for so long. This policy renewal is urgent because of the growing dangers of unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental pollution, educational and cultural decline, resource wars and loss of civil liberties which face civilisation today. In order to achieve the necessary progress there is a particular need for collaboration between those working in the two ﬁelds of civil aviation and civil space. Although the word ‘‘aerospace’’ is widely used, it is largely a misnomer since these two ﬁelds are in practice quite separate. True ‘‘aerospace’’ collaboration to realise passenger space travel will develop the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above. 8.1. Heaven or hell on Earth? As discussed above, </span><span class="underline">the claim that the Earth’s resources are running out is used to justify wars which may never end: present-day rhetoric about ‘‘the long war’’ or ‘‘100 years war’’ in Iraq and Afghanistan are current examples</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. If political leaders do not change their viewpoint, the recent aggression by the rich ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries, and their cutting back of traditional civil liberties, are ominous for the future.</span><span class="underline"> However, this ‘‘hellish’’ </span>vision of endless war is based on an assumption about<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a single number</span><span class="underline">—</span>the future cost of travel to orbit<span class="underline">—</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">about which a different assumption leads to a ‘‘heavenly’’ vision of peace and ever-rising living standards for everyone. </span>If this cost stays<span class="underline"> above 10,000 Euros/kg, </span>where it has been <span class="underline">unchanged for nearly 50 years, the </span>prospects for humanity are bleak. But if<span class="underline"> humans make the necessary effort, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and use the tiny amount of resources needed to develop vehicles for passenger space travel, </span><span class="underline">then this </span>cost<span class="underline"> will </span>fall<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to 100 Euros/kg, the use of extra-terrestrial resources will become economic,</span><span class="underline"> and arguments for </span>resource wars will evaporate entirely.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The main reason why this has not yet happened seems to be lack of understanding of the myriad opportunities by investors and policy-makers. Now that the potential to catch up half a century of delay in the growth of space travel is becoming understood, continuing to spend 20 billion Euro-equivalents/year on government space activities, while continuing to invest nothing in developing passenger space travel, would be a gross failure of economic policy, and strongly contrary to the economic and social interests of the public. Correcting this error, even after such a costly delay, will ameliorate many problems in the world today. </span><span class="underline">As this policy error is corrected, and investment in proﬁtable space projects grows rapidly in coming years, we can look forward to a growing world-wide boom. Viewed as a whole, humans’ industrial activities have been seriously underperforming for decades, due to the failure to exploit these immensely promising ﬁelds of activity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The tens of thousands of unemployed space engineers in Russia, America and Europe alone are a huge waste. The potential manpower in rapidly developing India and China is clearly vast. The hundreds of millions of disappointed young people who have been taught that they cannot travel in space are another enormous wasted resource. We do not know for certain when the above scenario will be realised. However, it could have such enormous value that considerable expenditure is justiﬁed in order to study its feasibility in detail [5]. At the very least, vigorous investment by both private and public sectors in a range of different sub-orbital passenger vehicle projects and related businesses is highly desirable. Fortunately, the ambitious and rapid investment by the Indian and Chinese governments in growing space capabilities may ﬁnally jolt the space industries of Russia, America, Europe and Japan out of their long economic stagnation, and induce them to apply their accumulated know-how to economically valuable activities—notably supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>

Government demand for reconstitution of small satellite constellations is vital to capitalizing the entire aerospace and commercial industrial base
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rendleman, 10</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
<span class="underline">Given the importance of a responsive space infrastructure to space assurance, arguments in favor of such capabilities must be improved</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and refocused to show they also satisfy strategic and long-term needs, and serve as good economic investment. </span>Cost-effective access can best be achieved by <span class="underline">deploying </span>resilient, more populous, and less-complex satellite constellations<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Leveraging such architecture, individual spacecraft components could be designed and developed to be less capable, and reliable, than systems dependent on a single or small number of satellites. Reliability would be gained through redundancy. Mission and cost savings advantages could be gained through shortened development cycles that allow for spirally-developed block versions of each platform, its payload(s) and other parts of the system. Increasing the numbers of satellites on-orbit would give the economies of scale needed to support spacelift innovation and encourage investment by the commercial sector. </span><span class="underline">Architectures developed for responsive small satellite systems should be able to effectively use rapidly evolving technology and process innovations. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Miniaturization of components in small satellites now offers sophisticated capabilities useful for a wide variety of operational and science and technology missions, and can give the needed flexibility for designing large constellation mission architectures. LEO, multi-plane Walker constellations, insertion of multiple satellites on each launch, selection of mature technology readiness level (TRL) sensor or communication payloads and buses, block acquisition approaches, simplified platforms and busses, and common mission control and ground systems can all be employed. Constellations of simple multi-mission, combined communication-sensor satellites can be developed and deployed to achieve cost-efficient acquisition goals. Commercial and international communities are already deploying smaller, shorter-life, yet capable satellites with streamlined mission control architectures; these approaches are already cost-effectively satisfying mission needs. Acquirers must seize upon the best approaches. National security missions are amenable to LEO and small satellite systems—communications, reconnaissance, missile warning and defense, and weather. As we have seen with GPS, OrbComm, and Iridium systems, </span>large constellations of small satellites can<span class="underline"> be effectively managed and </span>perform vital missions<span class="underline">; they employ well-designed Walker Constellations to provide ubiquitous 24/7 coverage of much of the globe. By operating under a concept of employment that envisions regular, not infrequent or as-needed, replenishment of space systems, decisions makers would potentially have sufficient numbers of systems on hand, or in storage, to sustain rapid reconstitution or augmentation of capabilities in response to an attempted space ‘‘Pearl Harbor’’ or other national emergency</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">LEO could be selected, so that on mission completion systems are de-orbited in a relatively short period of time compared to present systems in higher orbits, reducing space debris problems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span class="underline"> Other secondary benefits could be secured with such a sustainment strategy—</span>the U.S. aerospace industrial base, <span class="underline">which has been suffering lately, </span>could be re-energized with <span class="underline">acquisition strategies that require continuous </span>engineering improvements and innovations to<span class="underline"> large constellation </span>space systems<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>This could ensure <span class="underline">that </span>the U<span class="underline">nited </span>S<span class="underline">tates </span>Government, and industrial and commercial base, is adequately capitalized <span class="underline">and led, to be able </span>to ‘‘develop and accelerate programs for rapid launch <span class="underline">of satellites, to </span>reconstitute <span class="underline">lost systems, </span>or bolster constellations <span class="underline">in times of crisis.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">’’88 Costs for responsive space will be difficult to contain, while the underlying industrial base struggles to sustain, re-define, and improve itself.89 Employing large constellation acquisition, operations, and sustainment approach could provide the cost imperatives, effectiveness, resiliency, and opportunity to reconstitute that base. Thus, a responsive infrastructure would also serve as a vital part of a space assurance strategy.</span>

This stimulates commercial launch markets and substantially lowers launch costs – in addition to creating credible deterrence by denial
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Colón, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Lt Col, USAF, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “ DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #365f91; font-size: 10.6667px;">A New Approach to Space Deterrence </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// states that </span>deterrence <span class="underline">works best among major great-powers and </span>is <span class="underline">therefore </span>ineffective against rogue groups <span class="underline">or terrorists</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.35 </span><span class="underline">Thus, </span>deterrence must evolve beyond <span class="underline">the threat of potential costs imposed by a </span>punishment <span class="underline">strategy.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Expressed mathematically, deterrence is comprised of gains (G) sought by the adversary and the cost imposed by punishment (C). Thus, if G > C the actor attacks and if C > G he does not. Usually deterrence concentrates on making the cost or punishment so great that the potential aggressor will not attack. This approach will not work for space because an attack is extraordinarily difficult to attribute to any adversary. For example, in 1998, PANAMSAT’s Galaxy IV satellite experienced a battery anomaly leading to a satellite failure that left nearly 40 million customers without paging services.36 What if this incident was not caused by the battery anomaly? Who then attacked the satellite and how? </span><span class="underline">For deterrence to work, one must gather convincing evidence that attributes the attack to someone specific. </span>Lack of attribution will convince the adversary to attack. <span class="underline">First, the probability of a nation-state counterattacking, without demonstrable evidence, is low. Second, the </span>inability to rapidly identify the responsible party reduces <span class="underline">the </span>probability of retribution <span class="underline">thereby </span>increasing <span class="underline">the </span>potential gains to an aggressor<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>As technology miniaturizes satellites, the <span class="underline">potential </span>target becomes smaller<span class="underline">, cheaper </span>and can <span class="underline">effectively </span>hide in <span class="underline">the clutter of space </span>debris<span class="underline">.For this reason, the approach to </span>space deterrence must <span class="underline">concentrate on significantly </span>reduc<span class="underline">ing the </span>perceived gain<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (G) or success </span><span class="underline">to be won by an adversary</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">The </span>conditions must be <span class="underline">such that it becomes manifestly </span>clear; attacking another asset in space is pointless <span class="underline">and counterproductive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Space deterrence must revolve around two concepts: //transparency// and //diversity//. //Transparency//, or the ability to see without obstruction the events that occur in space, creates a peaceful environment which promotes understanding and accountability. Theoretically, when information is released, under the auspices of transparency, it produces an informed and engaged public, one that will hold a culprit accountable. 37 </span><span class="underline">The ability to monitor and understand the rapidly changing conditions in space is critical to the preservation of security in space.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> While the US developed its current satellite capabilities in compliance with international rules and treaties it also deemed it prudent to develop a space surveillance network to monitor all near space activity and ensure a secure environment for all space faring nations. This network, of ground and space based sensors, provides radar and optical data used to characterize the mission of any satellite, identify the class and type or to simply aid in anomaly resolution.38 </span><span class="underline">Currently, ground systems can track objects with a resolution of 12cm or greater</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">39 </span><span class="underline">making it challenging to track nanosats</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Air Force Space Command’s 2030 vision is enabled by technological improvement. It includes upgrades to existing sensors and an increase in the number of space-based optical sensors in an attempt to provide persistent and complete coverage of the near space domain. The resolution of near-term upgrades will improve to 1cm increasing the ability to track nanosatellites.40 In order to ensure safe space operations and uphold its commitment to cooperation with other nations and the peaceful use of space, the US consistently provides the orbit positional data41 via a public website accessible by anyone. The principles and goals stated in the national space policy highlight the nation’s vision of leading the way in space surveillance in order to promote and provide a safe operating environment for machines and people.42 In the end, </span><span class="underline">for transparency to work, space situational awareness must allow analysts to identify deliberate actions by a spacecraft and its owners and ultimately predict, detect, and attribute an attack43</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The second concept in space deterrence is //diversity.// It provides a tailored approach, focusing on minimizing the impact of an attack, also known as graceful degradation, consequently driving the perceived gains (G) for the adversary as close to zero as possible. </span><span class="underline">Diversity can be achieved through large networked constellations of space-based assets complimenting the existing ground based sensors</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="underline">with a distributed architecture so that destruction of one or even several satellites does not take down the entire system.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In the past, the US employed the costly approach of maintaining on-orbit spares, hardening on-board components, enhancing uplink and downlink encryption to increase satellite and signal survivability.44 In the future, nanotechnology will facilitate redundancy and rapid reconstitution. Presently, several companies, including the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, are currently demonstrating the technology. By 2035, on-orbit repair along with the robotic on-orbit refueling of satellites will become standard. Spacecraft will use autonomous navigation and conduct housekeeping tasks independent of a ground station. This is especially useful in the event of a communication failure or loss of the ground segment. Moreover, rapid reaction maneuvering capability will allow spacecraft to evade kinetic kill vehicles. The cornerstone of resilience is agile, capable, and functional technology able to diminish an adversary’s gain while increasing the cost of an attack – success in both enables deterrence. Above all, </span>the space industrial base must grow to deliver the technical transformation required to employ this new <span class="underline">approach to</span> deterrence.<span style="color: #365f91; font-size: 10.6667px;">Recommendations </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The US was shocked by a technological surprise on 4 October 1957 when the Soviet Union launched //Sputnik//, a 184 pound satellite, into orbit on top of a rocket weighing nearly 4 tons. In contrast, the //Vanguard// satellite the US developed and had yet to launch weighed only 3.5 pounds.45 </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sputnik </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">completely collapsed the technological comfort zone the US. It heated up the Cold War as peoples’ fear grew over what the Soviets might do next; the strategic deterrence calculus was fundamentally altered. Today the US has the opportunity to shape the future and set conditions for effective space deterrence. Reconstituting and energizing the space industrial base is critical to future deterrence. Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 2-2 states, “Operators and planners must know as quickly as possible the origin of any anomaly and be able to identify and geolocate the threat in a timely manner.”46 In order to meet the intent of AFDD 2-2 the US must embrace the goals identified in the National Space Policy, most importantly to “enable a robust science and technology base supporting national security.”47 Without industrial base growth, the international community’s influence will grow and undermine the nation’s future space security. The US cannot allow its own space industry to abrogate its role in national security nor can it continue to set conditions through ITAR and national policies which leave industry with little choice but to divest itself of its space tools. The US government must focus on the following areas: improving space situational awareness, miniaturizing spacecraft and launch vehicles, promoting innovation and risk taking in technology development, and improving export control policies and procedures. First, </span><span class="underline">the key enabler for transparency is space situational awareness</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Today’s space surveillance network is composed of diverse sensors to include tracking radars, optical telescopes and space-based visible sensors. To prepare for tomorrow’s smaller target upgrades are required. The W-band upgrade to the Haystack sensor in Massachusetts increases the ground-based sensor’s collection bandwidth from 1GHz to 8 GHz thereby improving its resolution from 25 cm to 1cm and facilitating the tracking of nanosatellites.48 Although the upgrade is significant for the ground-based sensor network, it must be complimented with additional space based capabilities. In this instance, miniaturization becomes a force multiplier as it allows the next generation of space-based space surveillance to be configured with full motion video. Ground-based sensors can tip-off the space-based sensor to track a specific target. The video’s dynamic feedback can in turn provide greater insight into the intent of the adversary as it observes the target. CubeSat has already demonstrated the ability of one nanosat to take a picture of another (figure 3). Consequently, a successful deterrence strategy is dependent on the surveillance network’s ability to identify threats, characterize the potential damage, determine an aggressor’s intent and ultimately attribute the action to the adversary. Second, CubeSat redefined the approach to building satellites through the development of standard building modules and taking advantage of the latest breakthroughs in nanotechnology. This approach makes CubeSat the model for “smaller, cheaper, and faster”. The US government must adopt a similar approach. While tradeoffs are necessary, government interest and investment in the many facets of the space should allow for good decisions about when a technology is “good enough” to satisfy mission and national security requirements. The approach facilitates decreasing the size of satellites, increasing spacecraft redundancy and allowing a higher number of satellites per constellation thereby complicating the targeting equation for the adversary. Its centerpiece focused on driving down the adversary’s perceived gain (G) closer to zero. This approach will increase diversity and future space deterrence effectiveness within a dynamic security environment. Third, advanced miniaturization is creating a growing market for a very small, capable launch vehicle. </span><span class="underline">As CubeSat gains momentum, it creates a strong market dynamic for a very</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">17 </span>small and highly responsive launch vehicle<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Currently, most CubeSats are launched on decommissioned Russian rockets as secondary payloads49. Up to this point, companies like Eurokot and Kosmotras have kept the launch cost to no more than $40K per CubeSat. As demand rises and slots for secondary payloads become scarce, the cost of each CubeSat will inexorably rise. Sensing a growing need for CubeSats, launch companies are developing a two-stage liquid propellant, launch vehicle capable of delivering 10 kg to a 250 kilometer polar orbit. </span><span class="underline">If successful, such a </span>capability will increase launch market share for the US space industry, enhance growth in other areas and lower launch costs<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.50 </span>Affordable launch enables satellite replenishment. Even if the adversary destroys a satellite, the spacecraft can be quickly replaced <span class="underline">minimizing the impact of the attack</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Fourth, changes to US export control laws are required. The primary agencies governing export control are the Department of State (DOS) and the Department of Commerce (DOC). The DOS is responsible for maintaining the US’ munitions list which is used to identify which products or services are subject to export controls. Currently, satellites and all related space technologies are under DOS jurisdiction.51 However, DOS is not the most knowledgeable agency with regard to spacecraft or the associated technology and it uses ITAR to implement requirements established in the arms Export Control Act. According to the Defense Industrial Base Assessment on the US space industry, “US manufacturers have not introduced a new satellite bus since the Boeing 702 was developed in 1999. In contrast, European manufacturers have introduced 3 new busses in the last 5 years and are currently developing a 4th.”52 Players within the space industry argue that the US market share dipped from approximately 70% in 1995 to 25% in 2005. Compliance with export control cost US companies an average of $49M per year from 2003-2006.53 This cost was not applicable to foreign 18 competitors. Clearly, export controls provide foreign competitors an advantage in marketing to non-US customers because they limit what can be bought and who can buy it. It can also control the actions of the authorized buyers and users in terms of what they can use the technology for and whom they can share the technology with. Such restrictions adversely affect a US company’s ability to compete in foreign space markets consequently opening up opportunities for foreign space ventures whose governments are not as particular about how technology is used or who buys it.54 In the end, international competition is critical in order to reduce costs, preserve US dominance, forge closer relationships in order to globalize and thereby protect the use of space for all benevolent users. It enables an advanced form of deterrence denying the adversary the option of attacking. In short, space technology must move off the munitions list and into its own category which protects the technology that needs protecting while allowing the US space industrial base to sell non-critical space technology internationally. </span><span style="color: #365f91; font-size: 10.6667px;">Conclusion </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Current developments in the field of nanotechnology are highlighting pathways for spacecraft to become smaller and ultimately affordable. </span><span class="underline">As nanotechnology helps solve the problems of spacecraft mass, volume, and power consumption, national leaders must not lose sight of the fact that it is also opening access to space to virtually anyone. Adversaries understand the US’ increasing space reliance and will challenge the medium especially if it provides an audience and even worldwide recognition for their cause. As future adversaries benefit from smaller, lighter, and affordable satellites, the US must invest in an approach that</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">19 </span><span class="underline">relies on </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">transparency </span>//<span class="underline">and </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">diversity </span>//<span class="underline">as the backbone of a strong deterrence posture </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to meet the threat in 2035. This new approach to space deterrence concentrates on significantly reducing the perceived gain (G) or success to be won by an adversary instead of solely focusing on the traditional approach of punishment. </span><span class="underline">In order to lower the adversary’s perceived gain, the US’ future ability to deter an attack rests on a space surveillance network that allows for the identification and persistent tracking of miniaturized spacecrafts thereby highlighting intent and ultimately attributing an action to a specific actor</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Equally important, </span><span class="underline">the US must embrace nanotechnology as the cornerstone to materials magnifying ways for spacecraft to become smaller, lighter, and affordable while further developing the space industry base</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Furthermore, nanotechnology will enable diversity or added redundancy in the more autonomous spacecraft and increase survivability in space while lessening dependency on ground stations making the perceived gains (G) of attacking the ground infrastructure close to zero. Lastly, export control reform will allow nanotechnology to power the industrial base engine and minimize the potential for a nation-state, group or individual actor to create a strategic shock to the space sector. After Sputnik’s voyage, public opinion blamed the government for not doing enough and ultimately risking US’ national security. The response was a significant increase in funding for military and civil space. In a post-9/11 world, </span><span class="underline">the US cannot allow another technological surprise to occur, especially one perpetrated by non-state actors availing themselves of readily available and inexpensive space capabilities that can be used in ways to fundamentally alter the deterrence calculus</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Once again, a significant commitment is required to strengthen the space industry and set the conditions needed for success in 2035. </span><span class="underline">The natural deterrent created by high launch costs is disappearing and the ability to monitor and understand the rapidly changing</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">20 </span><span class="underline">conditions in space continues to be critical to the preservation of national security</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In short, </span><span class="underline">the nation’s best technological approach for future space deterrence lies in becoming the world leader in the application of nanotechnology</span>. It will increase the industrial base, lower launch costs, improve transparency <span class="underline">and diversity ultimately </span>setting the conditions for <span class="underline">the </span>deterrence <span class="underline">calculus to tip in favor of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates. </span><span class="underline">Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not to attack</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; effectively deterring him.</span>

The perception of a firm governmental commitment to ORS is vital to stimulating the commercial launch market
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Felt, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span class="underline">Industry watching for decisive government leadership, especially in the budget</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Unlike those of most exquisite space programs, </span><span class="underline">the ORS business model is not based upon awarding one contract spanning many years to a single contractor. The </span>responsive space business model calls for<span class="underline"> a significantly higher transaction rate, which establishes the “carrot” of capturing future business as the primary motivation to perform well on existing contracts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Most companies seem to recognize the </span>benefits that a more competitive US government space marketplace would provide<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Other aspects of the ORS business model may be less appealing to industry, however. In-sourcing of final assembly and test, lower contract values in general, a return to linking fee/profit to risk on cost-plus contracts, interfaces based on open rather than proprietary standards, and open source flight software are concepts that some contractors perceive as threats to their short-term corporate profitability. Others realize that these concepts are necessary to maintain the overall health of the space enterprise over the long run and grow the overall space budget, benefitting many companies and shareholders. Government acquisition decisions must be based on what is good for the taxpayer and the country, not only on maximizing the prime contractor’s near-term corporate profits. The government is the entity likely to benefit most from the ORS business model, and should be eager to experiment with elements of the new model and evaluate risks and benefits. Since the barriers to entry are lower and the US government is not their only customer, the small space industry base is much more vibrant, competitive, and innovative than might be expected from looking only at the US government small space budget. For example, ORS business solicitations have elicited hundreds of excellent proposals from hungry industry partners, including many small businesses. Nevertheless, industry’s luke-warm embrace of ORS has influenced decision makers within the government to move more slowly toward responsive space than they otherwise might have. Unfortunately</span><span class="underline">, </span>the government moving slowly on responsive space induces a “wait and see” response from <span class="underline">the established space </span>contractors, perpetuating <span class="underline">the cycle of </span>moving slowly <span class="underline">on responsive space.</span>The<span class="underline"> bottom line is that </span>industry will follow the money and embrace responsive space fully<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> when, and </span>only when, the government shifts enough budget resources to <span class="underline">actually </span>field significant <span class="underline">operational </span>capability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Contention IV: Solvency
A stable, predictable funding stream is vital to ORS technology development
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dinerman, 6</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – DOD space consultant, and senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, The Space Review, “Tactical IR satellites: operationally responsive spacecraft?,” 8/7, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/675/1]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>troops on the ground need information they can use <span class="underline">in a timely and easily understood format</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Simply to provide them, or division or brigade intelligence staffs that support them, with raw satellite data is probably worse than useless. </span><span class="underline">The next generations of US Army and Marine Corps units are going to require information that can be integrated into their “network-centric” information systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">Imagery from space-based infrared sensors that are specifically designed for tactical utility should be part of these networks. </span>This is a mission for <span class="underline">a future constellation of </span>small “operationally responsive” satellites.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Part of the constellation should be kept in orbits that take them over places such as south Lebanon or the Afghan-Pakistani border where we can assume that there will be trouble for a long time to come. These should be carefully calibrated on a constant basis, so that their positioning information is ultra-precise. Other satellites can be kept on the ground ready to be launched at relatively short notice to supplement the ones on orbit over the world’s trouble spots, or they could be launched to cover unexpected outbreaks of fighting. A model for the way such a program could be run is GPS, which, over almost three decades, has gone from prototypes to sets of more and more sophisticated and capable satellites. These spacecraft have, on the whole, been both cost effective and free of the kinds of nasty and expensive surprises that have plagued SBIRS and other Air Force satellite programs. </span>An operationally responsive <span class="underline">tactical IR </span>satellite system would have to be <span class="underline">both </span>affordable and based on <span class="underline">proven and </span>reliable technology.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first generation of such satellites may not have all the desired features, but if properly designed—with the right filters and the right level of multi- or hyper-spectral sensitivity—such craft would give the ground forces a valuable early operational capability. To make the program affordable it would have to be designed to use already existing bus and power supply systems and probably also an in-service communications architecture. </span><span class="underline">It would have to be light enough to be launched on a Delta 2 or on a future operationally responsive spacelift vehicle. Most important of all, </span>the funding stream<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—</span><span class="underline">no matter how much or how little—</span>would have to be predictable so that the contractors would have the incentive to plan for the long term<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This would be the most difficult part of the program since it would mean asking Congress to give up part of its power over the annual budget cycle. Another way to keep the program affordable would be to keep the early requirements to a minimum. The first versions should be strictly for ground force use only, with perhaps some applications for Marine Corps amphibious warfare requirements. Only after the system has proven itself should the program be allowed to move on to develop air-to-ground sensor-to-shooter loops. Ultimately a constellation of a dozen or so spacecraft in orbit, backed up by a similar number on the ground, would be ideal for the early versions of the full system. The ground segments will have to be as simple and as inexpensive as possible since it will need to be deployed with more than fifty Army and Marine brigade-sized units as well as with higher headquarters. </span><span class="underline">If the idea of </span>**__o<span class="underline">perationally </span>r<span class="underline">esponsive </span>s<span class="underline">pace means anything, it means that the military space forces</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, particularly Air Force Space Command, </span><span class="underline">are ready to give priority to supporting the troops on the front lines worldwide. Enhancing the combat effectiveness of the Army and the Marines and helping to save American lives should be the highest goal</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As Clausewitz put it, “The object of fighting is the destruction or defeat of the enemy.” </span><span class="underline">The more that military space contributes directly to that objective, the better for the troops on the ground and for America as a whole.</span>


Current ORS is inadequately funded---the plan is key to its success.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Peel 8</span>- Lt Col, USAF (Scott D., October 30, “Fixing the Nation’s Space Launch Woes: Operationally Responsive Space for Tomorrow’s Joint Force Commander—Panacea or Pipedream”, Naval War College, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/docs/citations/ADA494381]]</span>, Mintz)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, </span><span class="underline">to be successful, </span>ORS requires dedicated <span class="underline">and adequate </span>funding<span class="underline"> and manpower</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Initial investments will be required to establish <span class="underline">the </span>various organizations <span class="underline">associated with ORS. Additionally the foundational Tier-2 capabilities (e.g., </span>rapidly configurable satellites, quick-turn launch vehicles and associated mobile launch platforms, dedicated satellite command and control ground stations<span class="underline">, etc.) will </span>need to be developed, tested, bought in sufficient quantities and prepositioned at key launch areas<span class="underline">. In the ORS CONOPS, USSTRATCOM identifies this as a critical action and correctly assumes responsibility for working with the services to attain funding to enable an adequate response to “emergent and unforeseen needs</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” 37 But building Program Objective Memorandums (POMs) must occur several years in advance, and is dependent upon the military services to incorporate JFC requirements. </span>
----





=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]