======[[toc]]====== 


=Colonialism= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">The effort to expand into outer space introduces the prospect for colonization of the Final Frontier- political goals corrupt their adventure into murderous exploitation</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 2002, Peter, University of California, Los Angeles, Social Studies of Science, Sage Publications, “The Half-Life of Empire in Outer Space,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">To establish the difficulty... different temporal orders.3</span>


<span class="Underline">Space Age techno-babble creates a hierarchy where rulers can manipulate local culture to serve the rocket figure</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 1996, Peter, University of California, Science, Technology, & Human Values, Vol. 21, No. 3, “Beneath a Modern Sky: Space Technology and Its Place on the Ground,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Modern machines, then,… of the rocket.</span>


<span class="Underline">Colonialism produces extinction- when we open the possibility to kill to save ourselves it creates a death drive towards total annihilation</span>
<span class="Underline">Santos, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, 2003 (Boaventura de Sousa, Bad Subjects, Issue #63, April)</span>

<span class="Underline">According to Franz... horror and destruction.</span>


<span class="Underline">Our alternative is to reject expansion- Recognizing our limitations in space reduces human difference and breaks apart colonial rule</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 2002, Peter, University of California, Los Angeles, Social Studies of Science, Sage Publications, “The Half-Life of Empire in Outer Space,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">In our story,... each narrative position.</span>

==Framework== 
<span class="Underline">Imperialism- Their efforts to focus discussion solely on space development makes frontier-ideals and colonialist mindsets inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">WILLIAMSON 1987 (Ray, Office of Technology Assessment, United States Congress, “Outer Space as Frontier: Lessons for Today,” Western Folklore, October)</span>

<span class="Underline">Folklorists have a distinctive… in our future."7</span>



<span class="Underline">We control the only education IL- Colonial power relations turn knowledge into a political tool- questioning their mode of thought allows scholars to view the standpoint of the oppressed and discover true objective knowledge</span>
<span class="Underline">Anderson, 2002, Warrick, M.B.B.S., B.Med.Sc., M.D. (Melbourne), M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania) Social Studies of Science, Vol. 32, No. 5/6 “Introduction: Postcolonial Technoscience,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As a recognized literary… technoscience at 'home'.</span>


==<span class="Underline">Perm</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Including Western technoscientific logic privileges epistemic views over one another- our criticism only exists beneath the radar as their intellectual hegemony dominates political thought while claiming to be “equal”</span>
<span class="Underline">Anderson, 2002, Warrick, M.B.B.S., B.Med.Sc., M.D. (Melbourne), M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania) Social Studies of Science, Vol. 32, No. 5/6 “Introduction: Postcolonial Technoscience,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Some of the more… their attendant 'modernities'.51</span>


<span class="Underline">Every empiric goes Neg- excusing colonial actions fractures critical questioning as the alternative is forced to depend on “objective” scientific knowledge as it takes over the critical movement</span>
<span class="Underline">Anderson, 2002, Warrick, M.B.B.S., B.Med.Sc., M.D. (Melbourne), M.A., Ph.D. (Pennsylvania) Social Studies of Science, Vol. 32, No. 5/6 “Introduction: Postcolonial Technoscience,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Just as Bruno Latour… marketing of difference.59</span>


==Impact== 
===War=== 
<span class="Underline">Colonialism produces world-slaughtering massacres- the Indian frontier will be practiced on a global scale</span>
<span class="Underline">SLOTKIN 1985 (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, The Fatal Environment, p. 60-61)</span>

<span class="Underline">This ideology of… exceptionally violent society.</span>


===Racism=== 
<span class="Underline">Colonial views of the other create racist divisions within society</span>
<span class="Underline">Lucy Jarosz, 1992, Faculty in the Department of Geography at University of Washington, “Constructing the Dark Continent: Metaphor as a Geographic Representation in Africa”, Geografiska Annaler Series, MNDI MW</span>

<span class="Underline">Philosopher Ernst Cassirer… of this paper.</span>


<span class="Underline">You must reject every instance of racism</span>
<span class="Underline">Joseph Barndt, Minister 1991 (Dismantling Racism)</span>

<span class="Underline">To study racism… us as well.</span>


===Democracy=== 
<span class="Underline">Colonialism produces a totalitarian society that undermines individual liberty</span>
<span class="Underline">McCURDY 2007 (Howard, Professor of Public Affairs, American University, Societal Impact of Spaceflight, p. 13)</span>

<span class="Underline">Implemented visions of… fiction film Stargate.2*</span>


===Economy=== 
<span class="Underline">Exploiting other cultures makes our economy unsustainable- comparatively worse for collapse</span>
<span class="Underline">Sullivan, 06 (Charles free lance writer for Information Clearing House. “Scared Ecology and Capitalism” http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article13515.htm 6/6/2006).</span>

<span class="Underline">Any economic system based… responsibly and sustainably.</span>

===Heg=== 
<span class="Underline">Colonial exceptionalism promotes bellicose behavior that undermines the deterrent effect- empirics prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, May 5, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Kissing Cousins: Nationalism and Realism,” http://irworkshop.sites.yale.edu/sites/default/files/Mearsheimer_IRW.PDF, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">To make the case… of the Cold War.</span>


===Warming=== 
<span class="Underline">Neocolonialism destroys the environment</span>
<span class="Underline">Gabriela Kütting is Lecturer of International Relations at the University of Aberdeen, 2003 (Globalization, Poverty, and the Environment in West Africa: Too Poor to Pollute?, Global Environmental Politics, Project Muse)</span>

<span class="Underline">The main crippling… in developing countries.</span>


===Solvency=== 
<span class="Underline">The 1AC should be taken as fictitious garbage- the 1AC’s call for exploration is an adventure we artificially create but it legitimizes colonial practices through their justifications- this proves they access none of the case and we control the only impact</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 2002, Peter, University of California, Los Angeles, Social Studies of Science, Sage Publications, “The Half-Life of Empire in Outer Space,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I want to underscore… to materialize them.</span>


<span class="Underline">Their policy observations are policed by imperial systems- all of their “facts” are hidden by the colonial state seeking to justify its expansion- exposing the laboratory as manipulated creates unbiased knowledge</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 1996, Peter, University of California, Science, Technology, & Human Values, Vol. 21, No. 3, “Beneath a Modern Sky: Space Technology and Its Place on the Ground,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Yet laboratories themselves… (Haraway 1989; Latour 1987).</span>


==<span class="Underline">AT: Realism</span>== 
You link turn realism- Exceptionalism promotes aggressive hyper nationalism that overwhelms realist checks on conflict- Balkans prove
Mearsheimer, 2011, May 5, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Kissing Cousins: Nationalism and Realism,” http://irworkshop.sites.yale.edu/sites/default/files/Mearsheimer_IRW.PDF, KHaze

To make the case… wake of the Cold War.



==Links== 
===Aliens=== 
The UFO narrative casts the alien other as subjugating humanity to the role of an animal- their image of aliens degrades the value of human life and culture as something useless in the grand scheme of outer space
Lepselter, 1997, Susan, Ph.D. student in Anthropology/Folklore at the University of Texas at Austin, “From the Earth Native’s Point of View: The Earth, the Extraterrestrial, and the Natural Ground of Home,” JSTOR, KHaze

These weren’t dreams,… the eclipse of natures5


As humans we cannot understand the motives or intentions of the alien- attempts to recreate their worldview are impossible and reinforce the anthropocentric colonial medium they come from- they leads to a hatred of human life and genocide
Istvan, 2007, Csicsery-Ronay, DePauw University “Some Things We Know about Aliens,” JSTOR, KHaze

In his essay 'What Is… species-level metaphysical sickness incites.


===Asteroids=== 
Their “imminent asteroid” arguments serve as propaganda for the militarist state to increase its control of our lives- this makes war inevitable and prevents action to mitigate the asteroid
Mellor ’07 – (Felicity, PhD Theoretical Physics Newcastle University, Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space, Social Studies of Science, Vol. 37, No. 4 (Aug., 2007), pp. 499-531, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2547453, SUSSMAN, PDF)

During the 1980s and 1990s,… towards more peaceful ends.



===US Key=== 
<span class="Underline">The belief in American exceptionalism ensures Western culture is the only thing to escape the Earth- all others will be exterminated</span>
<span class="Underline">BILLINGS 2007 (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, Societal Impact of Space Flight, p. 493-495)</span>

<span class="Underline">The frontier metaphor,… push the frontier.1*</span>


===Science=== 
<span class="Underline">Modern science was created to serve imperial interests- European nations controlled and monitored research to serve geopolitical and commercial needs</span>
<span class="Underline">Pyenson, 1993, Lewis, Department of History, University of Montreal, History of Science Society, “Cultural Imperialism and Exact Sciences Revisited,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">It is well to… by collecting data.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Tech Savior</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Technological advancements allow human history to reoriented in a manner that favors imperial ambitions- searching for a technical savior only justifies exploitation</span>
<span class="Underline">Redfield, 2002, Peter, University of California, Los Angeles, Social Studies of Science, Sage Publications, “The Half-Life of Empire in Outer Space,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The project of provincializing… is such a project possible?</span>




=<span class="Underline">Pan</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">1NC</span>== 
Chinese scholars rely on a positivist assumption of China- their failure to question the role of the US makes the “unbiased” conceptions of China a reality and creates a self-fulfilling prophecy
Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze

China and its relationship… those common positivist assumptions.


Efforts to repel the dangerous “China threat” creates a US drive to eliminate all dangers- this makes war inevitable
Chengxin Pan, Lecturer in International Relations at Deakin University, PhD in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2004 (“Discourses of ‘China’ in International Relations,” Doctoral Thesis for the Australian National Unviersity)

With the passing… help us explain this point.


Our alternative is to embrace the ambiguity of China- rejecting attempts to construct a “logical” Chinese identity prevents discursive violence
Callahan, 2005, William A., Comments on this introduction by Chih-yu Shih, Suisheng Zhao, Gregory Moore, and participants on the panel at the 2004 American Political Science Association conference were also very helpful. Some of the research for this essay was funded by a British Academy fellowship at Harvard University, “How to Understand China: The Dangers and Opportunities of Being a Rising Power,” JSTOR, KHaze

Rather than seeing… of China's rise.

==Framework== 
Predictability only allows knowledge to be homogenized and policed- resisting certainty in IR is the only way to be educated on the Chinese Other
Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze

What does this U.S…. way of U.S. self-imagination.


==Alternative== 
===2NC=== 
The Aff’s search for the “absolute truth” of China makes conflict inevitable- individual rejection of harmful discourse solves
Moses, 2007, Jeremy, Political Science Programme, University of Canterbury, Paper presented at International Conference on Political Communication, “ Discourse Analysis and International Politics: Rethinking Relations between the United States and China,” http://ir.canterbury.ac.nz/bitstream/10092/4989/1/12610075_Wuhan%20Paper.pdf, KHaze

Overall, a sense is… critiques become possible.


===Discourse Key=== 
Discourse shapes IR- the current information age means perceptions of threatening rhetoric produce mutual hostility and flawed policy outcomes
Callahan, 2005, William A., Comments on this introduction by Chih-yu Shih, Suisheng Zhao, Gregory Moore, and participants on the panel at the 2004 American Political Science Association conference were also very helpful. Some of the research for this essay was funded by a British Academy fellowship at Harvard University, “How to Understand China: The Dangers and Opportunities of Being a Rising Power,” JSTOR, KHaze


Critical discussions of 'China… US as essential enemies.27


==Perm== 
Total rejection key- As long as neo-conservative elements exist within strategic planning, China will be constructed as threatening
Pan, 2006, Chengxin, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “Neoconservatism, US–China conflict, and Australia’s ‘great and powerful friends’ dilemma,” JSTOR, KHaze

Neoconservatism, particularly in the guise… formidable resource base’ in Asia (US DoD 2001: 4).


==AT: China Evil== 
Secrecy and bias make predicting Chinese space projects impossible- they aren’t racing the US
Day, 9-12-11, Dwayne A., The Space Review, “Moon dragon,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1924/1, KHaze

But also absent from… translated into English.


Even the DoD admits China is an inherently peaceful-prone nation
Department of Defense, 2011, “ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China 2011,” http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/2011_CMPR_Final.pdf, KHaze

China’s current strategy… and not stand out.


China’s rise is inevitable- they could beat us in a non-military manner- economic and diplomatic incentives will drive them to be peaceful absent US aggression
Rachman, 2011, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy, “ Think Again: American Decline,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline, KHaze

"We've Heard All This… of things to come.


Chinese space modernization is a reaction to US aggression- only the plan triggers long term aggession
DeGroot, 8-25-11, Gerard, BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), writes for The Telegraph, author of “Dark Side of the Moon,” “As China gazes upwards, watch this space,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html, KHaze

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ever since the first… treated like one.</span>


==Impacts== 
===Solvency=== 
<span class="Underline">The construction of the Chinese other makes realpolitik and extremism inevitable- this turns the case</span>
<span class="Underline">Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I have argued above… option for both sides.</span>


<span class="Underline">Their “experts” only evaluate China in a neorealist framework that labels anything uncertain as threatening- their lack of Chinese intentions or capabilities proves their predictions are inaccurate fear mongering- proves they cant solve</span>
<span class="Underline">Pan, 2004, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2K4 [Chengxin, The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, 2004]</span>

<span class="Underline">Having examined how the… lacks necessary weights)."</span>



==Links== 
===Heg/Containment=== 
Hegemonic power politics creates fear in the US as we seek to eliminate the undesirable challengers- this promotes pre-emptive warfare and creating a permanent containment policy towards China
Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze

The discursive construction of the U.S…. "spy plane" incident of 2001.


===History=== 
Historical accounts of China allow scholars to dismiss alternatives viewpoints as “irrational idealism”- they will inevitably find a reason to claim China is the evil empire to fill their own psychological insecurities
Pan, 2004, Chengxin, Sage, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” JSTOR, KHaze

Indeed, the construction of other… need not equate to threat


=Realism= 
==AT: Biology== 
**Biology goes our way- psychological studies prove humans don’t always seek to maximize their power**
Jeffrey D. **Berejikian, 2002**, Assistant Professor of International Affairs at the University of Georgia.. (International Society of Political Psychology. “Model Building With Prospect Theory: A Cognitive Approach to International Relations,” JSTOR

For more than two decades,… have recently taken it up.