[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.
Contention 1: Grid failure:

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A devastating solar storm is coming in 2013.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cox 9.21</span> (A GIANT explosion of energy from the Sun could paralyse Earth in just three years' time, scientists warned yesterday.
[[http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/news/3145874/Solar-flare-to-paralyse-Earth-in-2013.html]]<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;"> By</span><span class="uppercase">**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">BRIAN COX</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">Sun Professor)</span>
THE Sun has the… sapphires.

Solar storm destroys grids and satellites for years and make America a developing nation.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tracton 09</span> (Dr. M. Steve, Program Officer for Marine Meteorology at the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Before that, for 31 years he was a research scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP)Do Solar Storms Threaton Life as We Know It? 4.6.09 [[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2009/04/do_solar_storms_threaten_civil.html]])
As severe… future post. Stay tuned!!

Solar Storms destroy the electrical grid GLOBALLY
Laurence **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hecht 11</span>__**, Editor, 21st Century Science Associates, Friday, 17 June 2011, Solar Storm Threatening Power Grids – Yet no Action Taken to Implement Defences, [[http://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Solar-Storm-Threatening-Power-Grids-%E2%80%93-Yet-no-Action-Taken-to-Implement-Defences.html]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A known and c…descend into chaos</span>

And<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>the electric grid is unprotected and increasingly vulnerable to solar storm impact – blackouts and wide-scale damage will ensue
NRC, 2008
[National Research Council, Committee on the Societal and Economic Impacts of
Severe Space Weather, “Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding
Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report”, [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Severe space we…readily achievable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Long-term blackouts disastrous- only takes a day for radiation to leak from power plants
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cappiello, 2011</span> (Dina Cappiello reporter for the AP March 29, 2011 “AP IMPACT: Long Blackouts Pose Risk to US Reactors” The Post and Courier [[http://www.postandcourier.com/news/2011/mar/29/ap-impact-long-blackouts-pose-risk-us-reactors/?print]])
WASHINGTON – Long…, then the tsunami.

Solar Storms can collapse nuclear power plants causing an impact comparable to 30 Chernobyls
Tabor, July 2011
[Damon, Popular Science, “SUN STROKE”, Lexis]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One of the biggest…two years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Impact equivalent to a nuclear war</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eccleston, Spring 2011</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chief Consultant for the Environmental Planning and NEPA Services Corporation and Stuyvenberg, Environmental Project Manager, US Nuclear Regulatory Comission, 2011 (Charles and Andrew, Environmental Quality Management, “The Perfect Electrical Storm? “ Volume 20, Issue 3, Article first published online: 14 MAR 2011, DOI 10.1002/tqem / Spring 2011 / 43 Published online in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com) [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/tqem.20288/pdf]] , accessed 7-2-11) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">neighbors.</span>

Early warning system solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OCIPEP</span>, 4/25/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span>, “Geomagnetic Storms - Reducing the Threat to Critical Infrastructure in Canada”, [[http://www.solarstorms.org/CanadaPipelines.html]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Preventative… storm threat.</span>

DSCOVR’s gives early solar storm warning
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scripps 2011</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scripps Institution of Oceanography: Global Discoveries for Tomorrow’s World, 2011 [[http://www.sio.ucsd.edu/About/Research_Overview/The_Oceans_and_Global_Change/]]</span>

Monitoring the Climate from Deep Space
Scripps is participating… <span class="underline0">public via the Internet</span>

ACE is the only status quo early warning system; STEREO and SDO are insufficient.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA 10</span><span style="color: #333333;"> (As the Sun Awakens, NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather</span>

<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]</span>

<span style="color: #333333;"> June 4, 2010)</span>
<span style="color: #333333;">Among dozens of NASA spacecraft…</span><span class="underline0"> is about to hit.”</span>

ACE fails at early warning; no replacements.
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks</span>__**, PhD in quantum physics, 3/23/**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>__**
[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">observations…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rather </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">foolish."</span>

Smart grids don’t solve -- more vulnerable to electromagnetic pulse disruption from a solar storm
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eccleston</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Chief Consultant for the Environmental Planning and NEPA Services Corporation </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Stuyvenberg,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Environmental Project Manager, US Nuclear Regulatory Comission, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles and Andrew, Environmental Quality Management, “The Perfect Electrical Storm? “ Volume 20, Issue 3, Article first published online: 14 MAR 2011, DOI 10.1002/tqem / Spring 2011 / 43 Published online in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com) [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/tqem.20288/pdf]] , accessed 7-2-11, ASR) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Smarter Grid…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the first devices to succumb</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Grid hardening is impractical in the status quo – no cohesion among utility companies on sharing IT.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lowensohn 2.16</span> (Josh, CNet News, 2.16.11, “Hardening the smart grid no small task” [[http://news.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-20032291-83.html#ixzz1EA4QVwPS|http://news.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-20032291-83.html#ixzz1EA4QVwPS]])
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif<span class="underline0">.--…</span> obviously need to focus on."

Contention 2: Warming
Warming is occurring rapidly -- it’s real and anthropogenic -- consensus of qualified experts.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Braganza 6/14/11</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” [[http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In public discussion…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">future warming is irrefutable.</span>
Warming leads to war and famine that kills hundreds of millions of people
Pfeiffer 2004
**[**Dale Allen, Geologist, Global Climate Change & Peak Oil, The Wilderness Publications, Online]
But the real importance… American natural gas cliff. Not pretty.

Warming causes crop failures and price spikes
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Verdin et al, 5-</span> US Geological Survey, National Center for Earth Resources Observation and Science
(James, “Climate Science and Famine Early Warning,” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, Vol. 360, 11/29/05, [[http://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=1569579#id454879|http://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=1569579#id454879]])
Rising concentrations…<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to such shocks.</span>

Declining crop yields causes worldwide nuclear war
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">WILLIAM H. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CALVIN</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, prof @ University of Washington [Atlantic Monthy] </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span>
The population… warming from the North Atlantic.
Warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus its real and anthropogenic.
Morgan, 2009
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As horrifying …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> exactly the conclusion reached by the scientist, inventor, and author, James </span>

The sooner we act, the better: vulnerability to climate change lowers the threshold of warming necessary to cause irreversible damage.
**__Bahn, et. al. 2011__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Olivier Bahn (a), Neil R. Edwards (b), Reto Knutti (c), Thomas F. Stocker (d), (a) GERAD and Department of Management Sciences, HEC Montr ́eal, Montr ́eal (Qc), Canada (b) Earth and Environmental Sciences, CEPSAR, Open University (c) Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, ETH Zurich, (d) Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, and Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research, University of Bern, “Energy policies avoiding a tipping point in the climate system” Energy Policy (39) 344-348)</span>
__While it …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> reasonable forcing scenarios</span>
Satellites are key to predictive models—ground, sea, and airborne observation don’t give the complete picture
GAO 10<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Government Accountability Office, “ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITES Strategy Needed to Sustain Critical Climate and Space Weather Measurements,” April 2010, </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Since the 1960s…ozone coverage.</span>
Predictions are necessary to create plans to combat warming—people can’t form effective strategies if they’re trying to fix the wrong problem
Hamre 10<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(John, President and CEO of the Center for Strategic & International Studies, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Slowly</span>, painfully…<span style="font-size: 10pt;">certainty into policy efforts</span>
DSCVR keystone for all other earth observatories- monitors Earth’s reflection, allows other satellites to calibrate location
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Donahue, April 6</span> (Bill Donahue, reporter for Popular Science, April 6, 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span>
Popular Science [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1]])
Since 1999, NASA … remained in storage.
US tech key – foreign satellite sensor technology not advanced enough
Lewis et al., 2010
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We now rely …SCIAMACHY</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.18</span>
DSCOVR can be launched now – it’s ready
Clark 2009
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, “Mothballed Satellite Sits In Warehouse, Waits For New Life”, Space.com, [[http://www.space.com/2286-mothballed-satellite-sits-warehouse-waits-life.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Valero said </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> wonderful."</span>
[preempts vary]

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>= 

Consult NATO

Prior binding genuine consultation is not only necessary to the
alliance but is the only way to ensure effective policies.
James Goldgeier, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Institute for European
Studies at George Washington, and Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Adjunct
Senior Fellow for Alliance Relations at Stanford, BRIEFING FOR
JOURNALISTS ON THE PRESIDENT’S TRIP TO EUROPE, February 18, 2005,
<span style="background-color: #f8f8f8; color: #333333; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">[[@http://www.cfr.org/publication/7850/briefing_for_journalists_on_the_presidents_trip_to_europe.html]]</span>
MR. GOLDGEIER: Well, you know, I mean… in capitals and at NATO


Security K

Whether civilian or military in purpose, the exploration and
development of space is inherently tied to achieving the ultimate
highground through the development of technology, which results in the
extension of war in outer space.
C. Peoples. 09 Securing Outer Space: Haunted Dreams, Natalie Bormann
and Michael Sheehan, Wearset Ltd. Pg 91-107

It might be wondered, however… policy as illustrated above.

Attempts to regulate disorder inevitably fail to do anything but
legitimate statist institutions and the escalation of biopolitical
violence
Bell in 2005(colleen, Biopolitical Strategies of Security:
Considerations on Canada’s New National Security Policy,
<span style="background-color: #f8f8f8; color: #333333; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">[[@http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP34-Bell.pdf]]</span>)

As an instrument of governance,… democrats, or even humans.”

The alternative is to reject the Affirmative for its security
discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security in all
forms through the means of debate is the only way to be emancipated
from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society
Mark Neocleous, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at
Brunel University, 08 (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s
University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008)

The only way out… brave enough to return the gift.