=Contact Info= 
**Email [[mailto:jmill126@gmail.com|jmill126@gmail.com]] for cites.**
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Space Corps - Plan Texts/1AC's== 
**The United States Department of Defense should develop a Space Corps**

===Space Doctrine Advantage - Read at most tournaments=== 
Advantage 1 – Space Doctrine

**Chinese military modernization creates an environment for inevitable space warfare**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, [[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]]

__The necessity of re-thinking<span class="Underline">…thinning out U.S. attacks.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**The United States must develop a space doctrine to hedge against the Chinese Space Doctrine**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MacDonald 08</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Bruce W. MacDonald Council Special Report No. 38 September 2008 “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Mr. MacDonald holds a BSE from Princeton in aerospace engineering and two master’s degrees [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us]] security/p16707?breadcrumb=%2Fpublication%2Fby_type%2Fspecial_report EL accessed 6/24/2011)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">With China’s demonstration... issue is neede</span>__<span style="color: black;">d</span>

**The Space Corps would be the best model for a United States Space doctrine**
**Moorhead 4** [Richard D, US Army Major, “Will We Need a Space Force?,” MILITARY REVIEW, July/August]

__War in space is inevitable… separate Space Force.__

**A space doctrine sustains military effectiveness and a victory in the inevitable Space War**
**Newberry 97** [Robert, USAF Major, “SPACE DOCTRINE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY,” Air University, March]

The lack of space doctrine… __a war in space__

**We must develop the Space Corps now before China implements contested zones in space – your impact defense doesn’t take contested zones into account**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, [[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]]

The Cold War-era “hub and spoke”… the hub-and-spoke.

**Chinese control of space would independently destroy global satellites**
**Martel & Yoshihara 3** [William C. Martel, Prof. Nat'l Security Affairs at the Naval War College, and Toshi Yoshihara, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy - Tufts U, research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, "Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race," Autumn, 2003, The Washington Quarterly, 26:4, pp. 19-35]

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategists in the…</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">their economic well-being</span>__</span>.

<span class="Underline">**Global vulnerability of satellites ensures extinction through nuclear miscalculation**</span>
**Myers, 2008**[lexis Date Accessed: June 23, 2011March 10, 2008 Monday, The International Herald Tribune, Risk of space war: Preparation outruns prevention Steven Lee Myers - The New York Times Media Group]

__It does not take…__ in Colorado Springs.



===Deterrence Advantage - Read until February 2012=== 


**Advantage 2: Deterrence**
**The United States will lose military and space superiority – now is key to deterring potential harms**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

As U.S. capabilities to… empowered Space Service.

**And that’s key to cross-domain deterrence**
**Moseley 07** - 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” __CSAF White Paper__, 29 Dec 2007, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]//edlee]//

//__No modern war… essential to victory.__//

//**<span style="color: black;">And independently, our space deterrence solves global conflict and strengthens global deterrence</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black;">Morgan 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15</span>[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf|__http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf__]]<span style="color: black;"> DM)</span>//

//Although this assessment… __deterrence and stability.__//

//**Deterrence prevents escalation and solves all impacts**//
//**Gerson & Whiteneck 09** – Research analysts @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control [Michael Gerson (M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago) & Daniel Whiteneck, “Deterrence and Influence: The Navy's Role in Preventing War,” __CNA Analysis and Solutions__, March 2009//edlee]

Although implicit or… **__and terminate conflicts.__**

**Finally, put your arms race disads away – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

__The creation of a … our capabilities are real.__

===Negation Assets Advantage - Read in January=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Advantage 2 – Negation Assets</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">A Space Corps is critical to provide infrastructure for negation assets like directed energy antisatellite weapons – we hold the vital internal link to stopping command, communication and navigation vulnerabilities</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Barber 2 [Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>]

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">The 1967 Outer Space … use of space systems.</span>

Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power

Marshall, 2008 (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199

Space assets are …from further research.

Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars

Zhang and Shi, 2011 (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This does not … of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Additionally, a Space Corps would be able to develop negation assets and communication satellites – this is the key vulnerability of our forces</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Barber 2 [Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>]


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">A separate Space …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> during critical times.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">19 </span>

The strength of our forces prevents extinction, the US military has been the greatest source of peace and the strongest correlate to global well-being
Barnett, 11<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7,[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is worth first …</span> the geometry to come

This could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world
Kagan, 7<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">This is a good thing, …will provide an easier path.</span>


Close your arms race documents – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.
Gayl 4 [Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

The creation … capabilities are real.

The Department of Defense is the key agent to establish the Space Corps to spur development and demonstrations
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Bennett, 11 - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">President and Chairman of the Board of Internet Transactions Transnational, Inc.,co-founded Space Enterprise Consultants- the first consulting firm devoted entirely to commercial space development, co-founded American Rocket Company (James C., Winter 2011, Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space, //The New Atlantis,// </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Aside from …<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">American practical success.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11.5pt;">A new agency for space is key to solve bad forms weaponization – a space corps would create a teaching opportunity for space weapons</span>
Romberger 7 [Scott, US Air Force Major, “Dawn of the United States Air Force Space Corps,” Air Univeristy, April]

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, Major …</span>its advantage in space.

===Space Weather Advantage - Read at GFCA Novice State=== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space weather risk is high and set to peak --- the impact is immediate</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moskowitz 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Clara, Space.com Senior Writer, Citing Jane Lubchenco---PhD in Ecology from Harvard, MS in Zoology, BA in Biology, currently under secretary of commerce for oceans and atmosphere and administrator of NOAA, she is "most highly cited" ecologists in the world, Juha-Pekka Luntama---manager of the Space Weather Segment in the Space Situational Awareness Preparatory Program in the ESA, Sir John Beddington--- PhD in Applied Population Biology and Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK Government, “U.S. Must Take Space Storm Threat Seriously, Experts Warn” February 19, 2011, pg online @ [[[http://www.space.com/10906-space-storms-threat.html]]]//greenhill-au)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space weather could pose serious problems here on Earth in the coming years, the …, the U.K. government's chief scientific adviser. "We've got to be scared by these events otherwise we will not take them seriously."</span>//

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space weather collapses navigation systems</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Doherty 2k11--- NOTE: Spacial Gradient = A magnetic field whose strength varies systematically over space</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Patricia, BS in Mathematics and Research Analyst at the Institute of Space Research at Boston College and has published numerous articles on the ionosphere, “Space Weather Effects on GPS and WAAS” August 5, 2011, Institute of Scientific Research, pg online @ [[[http://www.bc.edu/research/isr/spaceweathereffects.html]]]</span>greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space Weather events such as solar flares, coronal mass ejections and … signal that can cause a GPS receiver to lose lock on the signal. If many satellite signals are affected by scintillation, it can cause GPS to lose the capability to provide positioning information.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">That’s key to stop Caribbean narco-terrorism </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Purdy 2k8</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pg onlinegreenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">In U.S. Southern Command’s area of responsibility in Central and South …—they don’t get tired or hungry—and they keep personnel from being detected and harmed by insurgents.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Caribbean narcoterrorists will use bioweapons and target LNG</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Flynn and Bryan 2k1 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR</span>greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. The Caribbean is no exception. … within national borders. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bioweapons cause extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ochs 2k2</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Chemical Weapons Working Group Member, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]], 6/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales … of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? Human extinction is now possible. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">So do LNG explosions </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lovins and Lovins, 2k1 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(“Brittle Power,” [[http://www.rmi.org/images/other/EnergySecurity/S82-03_BrPwrParts123.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG is less than half as dense as water, so a cubic meter of … fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Increasing civil SSA data-sharing without military secrecy uses inter-agency information and creates response to space weather </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hapgood 2k10--- Card Omits Table 1, Box 5, and Box 6</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Mike, PhD and Professor at Lancaster University and Head of the Space Environmental Group at RAL Space and he is an internationally recognised expert in space weather with over 30 years experience in solar-terrestrial physics, a key part of the science of space weather, has led several major space weather studies for the European Space Agency and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team, and is also current chair of the UK solar-terrestrial physics community group, “Space Weather Its impact on Earth and implications for business” Ral Space Report Comissioned by Lloyds 360 Risk Insight, November 4, 2010, pg 20- 24, pg online//greenhill-au)//</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Building in protection The ideal response to space weather risks is … it may extend that expertise to include space weather. Otherwise it may be better to employ a specialist service external to the business.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Civil SSA needs to be in space and shared among governments to enhance global capabilities and mitigate space weather</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Weeden et al 2k10----*NOTE: L1 Lagrangian Point is an Orbit that has the same Period as the Moon</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Brian Weeden, Secure World Foundation, Paul Cefola is a PhD and Consultant in Aerospace Systems, Spaceflight Mechanics, and Astrodynamics; Adjunct Professor, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Jagananth Sankaran is a PhD Candidate and Graduate Assistant, Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland (CISSM), “Global Space Situational Awareness Sensors” 2010, pg online</span>greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Under this definition and within these requirements, SSA for civil and commercial safety … can make more efficient use of limited budgets and long spacecraft design times.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Any current cooperation is not mandated under a single agency and makes forecasts fail</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lanzerotti 2k6--- NOTE: NWSP = National Space Weather Program, the U.S.’s interagency space weather initiative consisting of the NSF, NASA, NOAA, DoD, DoC, DoE, DoI, and the DoT</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Louis, chair of the NWSP Assessment Committee, “Report of the Assessment Committee for the National Space Weather Program” June 2006, Office of the Federal Coordinator for Meteorological Services, FCM-R24-2006, pg online//greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Individual agencies within the NSWP have pursued international collaboration for … also assist in assuring continuity of data if one or more U.S. sources fail.</span>

===Cyberwarfare Advantage - Read at NFL Districts=== 

**Advantage 2 – Cyber Warfare**

**US satellite vulnerabilities make cyber warfare inevitable**
**Rendleman, 10** [ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese … 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**A Space Corps is necessary to solve every reason satellites are at risk of attack – we hold the vital internal link to stopping command, communication, and navigation vulnerabilities**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barber 2** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.”Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., </span>[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span class="Underline">A separate Space Service also … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">targeted regions during critical times.19 </span>

**Specifically, US satellites are vulnerable to Chinese attacks – recent evidence proves breaches have already occurred**

**Sternstein 11** [Aliya, 10/31 “U.S. satellite breaches may be linked to China”, [[http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20111031_9543.php?oref=topstory]]]

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China may have been flaunting</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of talks with House members.</span>

**A Space Corps prevents cyberwar by protecting space assets**
**Mackay 3** <span style="color: #4c4c4c; font-size: 9pt;">[Mackay, Neil. "Revealed: US … Global Warfare." __Sunday Herald__ Jun 22 2003]</span>

__Another exotic development will be "a … in any form of conflict."__

**Extinction**
**Fritz 9**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Jason Fritz, Former Captain, U.S. Army and a writer for the Center for New American Security. Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, International Commission for Non Nuclear Proliferation and Disarmament, July 2009. Pages 1-2)</span>

__All computers which are connected …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">command and control centers directly.</span>

**Cyber-attacks guarantee war and threaten power grids, oil pipelines, and water systems**
**Clarke 2/16** (Richard A., Feb 16, 2012, “Cyber Attacks Can Spark Real Wars,” Wall St Journal,[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204883304577219543897943980.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>__the ease with which …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">be dragged into unwanted conflict.</span>

**Cyber-attack kills the economy: three internal links**

**1. Power Grids**
**Berst 08** (Jesse, August 2008, “The Electricity Economy,” Global Smart Energy,[[http://www.globalenvironmentfund.com/data/uploads/The%20Electricity%20Economy.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper makes it abundantly … to petroleum-based energy supplies.</span>

**2. Oil Pipelines**
**Luft and Korin 3** (Gal and Anne, “Terror’s Next Target,” Institution for the Analysis of Global Security, [[http://www.iags.org/n0111041.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An </span>__attack on major oil …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">case a mega attack takes place.</span>

**3. Waterways**
**Muench 11** (Lynn M., Jan 18, 2011, Letter to Thomas Johnson of US Coast Guard, The American Waterways Operators,[[http://www.americanwaterways.com/Press_room/news_releases/legislative_news/2011/AWO_Comments_Final_Rule_Limited_Service_Domestic_Voyage_Load_Lines_River_Barges_Lake_Michigan.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__American Waterways Operators__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is … the interim rule’s operating requirements.</span>

**Global war**
<span class="Heading2Char">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention. </span>






=Negative= 


==Satellite Insurance DA== 

**Satellite production has remained stable the last several years causing insurance rates to also stabilize**
**Weiss and Manikowski 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mary & Piotr, //The Satellite Insurance Market and Underwriting Cycles//, American Risk and Insurance Association Annual Meeting, August 8]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The satellite insurance ...equations techniques (i.e., three-stage-least-squares).</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">New satellite projects give the perception of more launches which increase the probability for collisions</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bansal ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gaurav Bansal, correspondent for Ecofriend, 5-23-11, “The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly: Space Based Solar Energy” [[http://www.ecofriend.com/entry/the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-space-based-solar-energy/]]]</span>

<span class="Underline">A</span> large number <span class="Underline">...on Feb, 2009. </span>

**Perception of potential losses trigger an insurance spike**
**Weiss and Manikowski 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mary & Piotr, //The Satellite Insurance Market and Underwriting Cycles//, American Risk and Insurance Association Annual Meeting, August 8]</span>

__The satellite insurance industry ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1968 to the present. </span>

**Insurance spike kills the economy**
**Weiss and Manikowski 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mary & Piotr, //The Satellite Insurance Market and Underwriting Cycles//, American Risk and Insurance Association Annual Meeting, August 8]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This research is important, also, because ...</span> __to the world.__

**Global economic collapse causes extinction**
**Bearden 2k**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Bearden, Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), 2000 ("The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly", http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">History bears out that </span>... biosphere<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least for many decades.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Palladium Prices DA</span>=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Palladium prices are experiencing price volatility in 2011</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hotter 9/2</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrea, Dow Jones Newswires, “HSBC Cuts 2011 Platinum, Palladium Forecasts; Ups 12-18 Outlook”, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110902-701888.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">-</span>HSBC has cut its 2011 platinum ...__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">from $700/oz to $850/Oz.</span>

<span class="cite">Plan drives up palladium prices – just 2 satellites would use 25% of the world’s supply</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Annalisa </span><span class="cite">Weigel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Aeronautics/Astronautics & Engineering Systems, MIT. “Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” AIAA Space 2007 Conference & Exposition September 18-20, 20</span><span class="cite">07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://lean.mit.edu/index.php?option=com_docman&task=cat_view&gid=353&Itemid=1&mosmsg=You+are+trying+to+access+from+a+non-authorized+domain.+%28www.google.com%29</span>

The sheer size of the SPS structure…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">damage to circuitry.</span>

High palladium prices would increase Russian inflation – it would swamp current attempts to regain control
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heather </span><span class="cite">Connon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, from Money Observer. “Waking giant,” Interactive Investor 6/27/</span><span class="cite">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.iii.co.uk/articles/articledisplay.jsp?section=Markets&article_id=9937459</span>

Oil is not Russia's…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">roads and airports.</span>

<span class="cite">Increasing inflationary pressure would cause wide scale revolt – current inflation already has Russia on the brink</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tom </span><span class="cite">Lasseter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Russia worries about its high inflation,” McClatchy Newspaper July 17, 20</span><span class="cite">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.mcclatchydc.com/164/story/44620.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Larissa Vasilyeva wound her … of fruit and vegetables. </span>


<span class="cite">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven </span><span class="cite">David</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof. of political science at Johns Hopkins, 19</span><span class="cite">99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Foreign Affairs</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">If internal war … a Russian civil war.</span>

==Carriers Funding PIC== 

**The CP diverts money from useless aircraft** **<span style="background-color: #a9da92; color: #222222;">carriers</span> that won’t be used in combat**
Arquilla **8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, The Biggest Boondoggle, Forbes, 12/8, </span><span style="color: #3333cc;">[[@http://www.forbes.com/business/forbes/2008/1208/032.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] //jmill//</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Throughout the presidential...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">t</span>**</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">o fight again</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**</span>//


**And that budget is about to go up in FY2012**
//**Fabey 8/11/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, The McGraw Hill, Aviation Week, </span><span style="color: #3333cc;">[[@http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/asd/2011/08/11/04.xml&headline=Ford%20Carrier%20Faces%20Cost%20Overruns]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] </span>//jmill <span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> U.S...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">Service (CRS) report.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The president can impound money for national security and divert it to the plan. Only the counterplan can enhance presidential power – Congress won’t backlash, and it’s constitutional</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Brownell 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Roy E. Brownell II, then Attorney – D.C. Office of Muldoon Murphy & Facuette LLP, now Congressional Liaison Officer – USAID, Fall 2001, “The Constitutional Status of the President’s Impoundment of National Security Funds” – Seton Hall Constitutional Journal, p. lexis] In the past, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">National Security Rescission.</span>