[[toc]]
=Case Frontlines= 
==SPS== 
===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1NC Hegemony</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Can’t solve forward deployment – beams are too inefficient</span>**
Naval Research Laboratory, (W. Neil Johnson, et. al., 10/23/09, High-energy Space Environment Branch, “Space-Based Solar Power:
Possible Defense Applications and Opportunities”, Keith Akins, James Armstrong, Kwok Cheung, Glen Henshaw, Steven Huynh, Paul Jaffe,
Matthew Long, Michael Mook, Michael Osborn, Robert Skalitzky, And Frederick Tasker Jill Dahlburg And Michael N. Lovelette Robert
Bartolo And Keith Williams Mark Dorsey Donald Gubser Philip Jenkins, Scott Messenger, John Pasour, And Robert Walters Nathan
Smith Wayne Boncyk Michael Brown David Huberjchen)
DirectSBSP power delivery to daily patrols, ....practically feasible with near-term foreseeable technology.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Aging workforce, brain drain, export controls, and government shiftiness undermine the aerospace industry and international credibility</span>**
Alan L Feb, professor of national security policy at the Industrial College of the Armed Force, 2-08, [“Challenges Ahead For U.S. Aircraft
Manufacturers”, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2008/February/Pages/ChallengesAheadForUSAircraft.aspx]
But the industry must prepare to face several ....competitive landscape to the detriment of the industry.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Military’s going green now – solves deployment</span>**
Zavis '09 [Alexandra Zavis, Los Angeles Times, 4/26/2009, "Military embraces green energy, for national security reasons", pg. online @
http://articles.latimes.com/2009/apr/26/local/me-army-green2Z6 gh-bprp]
Inside a futuristic-looking dome that ....standards in the training area, Pittard said.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US hegemony is inevitable—we are too far ahead for anyone to catch up</span>**
Steven G. Brooks and William C. Wohlforth, Associate Professors of Government at Dartmouth College, 09
[“Reshaping the World Order,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64652/stephen-g-brooks-and-william-c-wohlforth/reshaping-the-world-order]
Now, the conventional wisdom is that the ....to lead the world than any other state.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No relationship between US capabilities and peace—no impact to hegemony</span>**
Fettweis 10 – Professor of national security affairs @ U.S. Naval War College. [Christopher J. Fettweis, “Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy,” Survival, Volume 52, Issue 2 April 2010 , pages 59 – 82//informaworld]
One potential explanation for the growth of global ....world peace and US military expenditure are unrelated.

===1NC Warming=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SPS can’t solve climate change – would require 400 satellites and 1000 years</span>**
Mark Hempsell, senior lecturer in space technology at the University of Bristol, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, October 2006, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576506001755//jchen
The key contributor to global warming gases is....of heavy dependence on energy from fossil fuels.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Warming inevitable – can’t prevent the impacts.</span>**
O’Driscoll & Vergano 7 (3/1, reporters for USA TODAY, “fossil fuels are to blame world scientists conclude”,
http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/2007-01-30-ipcc-report_x.htm )
Tebaldi says, is that even if people ....heat makes further warming inevitable, she says.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No runaway warming – even if CO2 growth is exponential temperature rises slowly</span>**
de Freitas 2 (C. R., Associate Prof. in Geography and Enivonmental Science @ U. Aukland, Bulletin of Canadian Petroleum Geology, “Are
observed changes in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere really dangerous?” 50:2, GeoScienceWorld)

In any analysis of CO2 it is important ....5 °C, as proposed in Figure 19

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Top scientists confirm no warming – IPCC temperature records are unreliable</span>**
Leake 10 – <span style="color: black;">Science and Environment Editor for the Sunday Times</span> (Jonathon, 2/14/10, “World may not be warming, say scientists”,
http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/environment/article7026317.ece)
It warned that greenhouse gases had already heated ....last 1,000 years,” he said.

**Their impacts are all empirically denied ---- past temperatures were substantially warmer than the present**
Idso and Idso in ‘7(Sherwood, Research Physicist @ US Water Conservation laboratory, and Craig, President of Center for the Study of
Carbon Dioxide and Global change and PhD in Geography, “Carbon Dioxide and Global Change: Separating Scientific Fact from Personal Opinion”, 6-6, http://www.co2science.org/education/reports/hansen/HansenTestimonyCritique.pdf)
In an attempt to depict earth's current temperature ....the peak warmth of the Current Warm Period.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tickell is wrong</span>**
Lomborg 8– Director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center and adjunct professor at the Copenhagen Business School (Bjorn, “Warming warnings get overheated”, The Guardian, 8/15,http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/15/carbonemissions.climatechange)
These alarmist predictions are becoming quite bizarre, ....% richer by the end of this century.

===1NC Solvency=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SPS fails – not cost competitive, can’t be launched, and won’t spur investment – their authors are fatally optimistic</span>**
Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California
Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007,
Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis,
http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdfjchen
A multitude of issues hang over the SPS<span style="font-size: 12pt;">....</span>cast a shadow of doubt on the concept.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Takes 32000 years to set up – assumes future tech advances</span>**
Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007,
Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis,
http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdfjchen
A number of alternate SPS designs have evolved ....GW of power on Earth in one century.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Either SPS orbits too low and debris takes it out or too high and radiation destroys it</span>**
Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007,
Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis,
http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdfjchen
Relatively little work has been done on assembly <span style="font-size: 12pt;">....</span>This remains an issue that requires further study.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their ev is hype – SPS advocates are overly optimistic</span>**
Day 09 (Dwayne, senior program officer with the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the National Research Council, Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)
Now many of these technologies have some merit<span style="font-size: 12pt;">....</span>and what technologies the activists are excited about.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Can’t establish the required 60 antennas to solve for US alone – unsuitable locations and NIMBY prevent siting</span>**
Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007,
Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis,
http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdfjchen
Land use is discussed at length by Kotin....siting of rectennas remains a significant open question.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Debris would block our access to space making it impossible to use satellites or colonize space</span>**
James Dunstan practices space and technology law at Garvey Schubert Barer and Berin Szoka is a senior fellow at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, a director of the Space Frontier Foundation and member of the FAA's Commercial Space Transportation Advisory Committee, 12-12-2009 [“Beware of Space Junk” http://www.forbes.com/2009/12/17/space-junk-environment-global-opinions-contributors-berin-szoka-james-dunstan.html]
At stake is much more than the $....planetary civilization capable of surviving true climatic catastrophes.

==Hardening== 
===1NC Hegemony=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space Hegemony is impossible – inherent vulnerability</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MacDonald</span> 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span> – Council on Foreign Relations [Bruce, Council Special Report No. 38 September China, Space Weapons, date accessed : June 24th, 2011, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]
Some are attracted to a U.S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">....</span>as well as those suggested on page twenty.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plan doesn’t solve – it only protects military satellites, but leaves commercial satellites vulnerable</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Putnam</span>, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">09</span> Maj. United States Air Force - Marine Corps Command and Staff College [Christopher, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf Countering the chinese threat to low earth orbit satellites: Building a defensive space strategyOMB No. 0704-0188
Finally, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the U</span>nited <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span>tates must not stop ....or guaranteed government contracts to companies that comply.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Both defensive and offensive capabilities are key to preventing and defeating attacks</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cynamon, 9</span>– colonel in the USAF (12 February 2009, Charles H., “DEFENDING AMERICA’S INTERESTS IN SPACE”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA539893&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Whereas </span>dissuasion was deemed an “unresponsive<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">” ....punishment mechanism to coerce against further </span>ASAT attacks<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deterrence fails – lack of transparency mean defensive systems are still perceived</span>**
M.V. Smith, PhD student of strategic studies at the University of Reading, and an associate director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies at the US Air Force Academy, NDU Press, May 20, 2003, “Security and Spacepower”, Toward a Theory of Spacepower, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch17.html//jchen
Unfortunately, deterrence<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is based on an abstraction ....</span>of global transparency and within broad international partnerships.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Can’t solve weapon dissuasion- nuclear weapons mean countries will still build up</span>**
Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cynamon</span>, colonel in the USAF, 02-12-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">09</span>, “Defending America’s Interests in Space” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA539893&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] [RR]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The near-peer </span>nation represents<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the most </span>....weapons, and defeat use of space weapons.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1NC China</span>=== 

**Recent space policies emphasize peace and cooperation, reversing past decisions**
Wade<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> Huntley, </span>senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California,<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> 11</span>, [“The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,
http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]
As is well understood, the space policies ....18 Many devils may lurk in these details.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chinese attacks on US assets cannot cripple the US military – many redundancies in satellites</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dillon</span>, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span> – Naval Postgraduate School [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669|http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai]]
[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669|?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]] Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy
Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]
China’s ability to conduct a devastating first strike ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S. military operations, China will find it</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China wouldn’t be able to initiate a sufficient space attack – they cannot field enough launchers. </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shachtman 08</span>- Writer for the Danger Room [ Noah Shachtman. [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin/]]. How China
Loses the Coming Space War. Accessed July 13, 2011]
Based on the orbits of US military satellites ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on the first day of the space war</span>.)

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China will not seek space dominance – only minimal deterrence – they are focused on economic and demographic change</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MacDonald 2008</span> **–** Council on Foreign Relations [Bruce, Council Special Report No. 38 September China, Space Weapons, date accessed : June 24th, 2011, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]
In the long run, if China sustains ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the intellectual ferment that surrounded nuclear deterrence</span>.”21

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S.-China relationship will still be jeopardized- political tension</span>**
Dr. John B. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sheldon</span>, Marshall Institute Fellow and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University,
Maxwell AFB, Alabama, 11-13-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, “Deterrence in Space: Responding to Challenges to the U.S. in Outer Space”,
[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]] [RR]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">You make a good point, but I ....</span>, but I am aware that might happen.

===1NC Solvency=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellite defense is impossible</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Krepon</span>, President of the Stimson Center, et al.<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays,
February,[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf|__http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf__]])
All <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">countries would be </span>victimized<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> if…</span>where there is less margin for error.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Squo is sustainable</span>**
DON L. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wilerkerson</span>, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Army, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span> “SPACE POWER THEORY: CONTROLLING THE MEDIUM WITHOUT
WEAPONS IN SPACE”
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is difficult to support</span> Oberg’s prognostication <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that </span>....can be mitigated using existing cost effective capabilities.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellite hardening isn’t effective against electronic threats – improved communication architecture is more effective</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Krepon and Clary 3</span> – *director of the South Asia and Space Security programs and director for South Asian affairs in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense (Michael and Christopher, 2003, Stimson Center: “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against
Weaponizing Space” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24
-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=105601)
Threats and Countermeasures <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Satellite protection can be developed ....</span>and pick up the true signa<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">l.23</span>

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Current defensive tech is too far away—development needed now</span></span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schendzielos, 8 </span>– major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies (April 30, 2008, Major Kurt Schendzielos, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc
?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)
Unfortunately, the timeline associated with the transformation ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">going to delay at all, if possible. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hardening trades of with capability- returns not sufficient to make up costs.</span>**
Roger G. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Harrison</span>, Allan & Malcolm Lockheed and Glenn L. Martin Professor of Space and Defense Studies and Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy, Summer <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2009</span> “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk”,http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given limitations on mass, </span>satellites designers are ...., presumably <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because of prohibitive costs and technical obstacles</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Colonization</span>== 
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hawking says we have to get out of the solar system to survive-that’s impossible</span>**
Joel Falconer is an editor and writer, 6-26-2011 [“What Would Colonization of the Final Frontier Look Like?” Insider http://thenextweb.com/insider/2011/06/26/what-would-colonization-of-the-final-frontier-look-like/] vpotluri
The question of which local bodies we could colonize terraform and otherwise adopt is an interesting one, but to truly preserve humanity as Hawking mandates we need to move beyond our own solar system<span class="DebateUnderline">.</span> … It’ll need to support said colonists in a sustainable fashion over the centuries and it’ll need to overcome some significant engineering challenges in order to be large enough.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plants can’t grow in space and reproduction would be too dangerous</span>**
Thinkquest 2K – Astrobiology: The Living Universe is the web's premiere educational resource for astrobiology, featuring in-depth information and interviews on exobiology, planetary biology, the origins of life and human spaceflight (“Reproduction in Space” , http://library.thinkquest.org/C003763/index.php?page=habitat05)
Many biological processes are affected by the weightless conditions in space, and reproduction is no exception. Gravity acts as a downward force on Earth, but in space, the lack of this ‘downward force’ has a disorienting effect<span class="DebateUnderline"> on living things</span>. … <span class="DebateUnderline">Because</span> of this, NASA prohibits pregnant women from going into space.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It’s impossible to adapt to zero-gravity</span>**
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Helen Caldicott is a physician from Austrialia.4-15-2K[http://www.space4peace.org/articles/madness.htm]</span></span>
So, now we're going to have this space station full of human beings up there. What do we want human beings in space for? You know what happens to them? … We'll die. The people who have been up there for months at a time come back pretty mentally disturbed, because they're all living together, eating together, defecating and urinating together in a very confined space while undergoing quite severe physiological changes.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Colonizing space furthers the human destructive nature making it impossible to survive</span>**
Hank Dolben is a senior software engineer and writer for Nothing is Perfect, 1-6-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>4 [“No Escape for Environmental Disaster,” http://www.dolben.org/nothingisperfect/archives/2004/01/no_escape_from.html
Second, we will never accomplish the colonization of space…. In short, there is a better chance of saving our existing environment than creating a new one. Still, it's unprovable, only refutable by counterexample.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic barriers prevent colonization</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a) No long-term government funding mechanism makes it impossible to have a stable colonization program</span>**
Mark Hopkins is Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, 4-24-2011 [“NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html]
No Long-term Government Funding Mechanism: Under current law Congress is not allowed to make financial commitments for more than one year. … Selecting subcontractors so that they are located in the politically optimal congressional districts can become more important then selecting them on the basis of who can do the best job.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">b) Lack of insurance discourages funding because they could lose everything</span>**
Mark Hopkins is Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, 4-24-2011 [“NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html]
Liability Insurance Costs and Conditions: By international agreement, there is an upper bound on the amount of liability that airlines have when one of their planes crashes. … We need clarifying legislation.