[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Want cites for anything not listed? Contact Nick at nrwscigeek@sbcglobal.net**
==**End-of-year DnG shenanigans 1AC**== 
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">3… 2… 1… liftoff… main thrusters on… initiating secondary lift phase… ladies, gentlemen, and others, welcome to space.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To prefer the following plan: that the United States federal government restart the space shuttle program and send this round into space along with a substantial number of other deployments beyond Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Baudrillard says that humanity is in space looking in on a hollow and meaningless pseudo-Earth. All words and ideas lose meaning in a mass of signifiers with only other signifiers as their signified, a model of a model that distances people from reality. While the simulacra and simulation theories may be accurate, reject the nihilism of Baudrillard, embracing instead a Deleuzian alternative approach to cultural analysis.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Massumi 87 To reject the personal pronouns</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Brian Massumi, Political philosopher and social theorist, with a PhD in French literature from Yale, “The Simulacrum according to Deleuze and Guattari”NCP-NW]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is a seductive image of contemporary culture circulating __...__ </span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">back with the dinosaurs or launching us into hypercynicism.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Instead of fighting the simulation of reality, embrace it. It enables the creation of a new world, shaped by discourses and perspectives. While this aff fiats, understand that it can only be a shared, willed fantasy. Therefore, use the plan as a mechanism to imagine this round in space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Massumi 87</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Brian Massumi, Political philosopher and social theorist, with a PhD in French literature from Yale, “The Simulacrum according to Deleuze and Guattari”NCP-NW]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In A Thousand Plateaus,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> __Deleuze and Guattari invent__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">a vocabulary enabling them to ... though perhaps equally intoxicating, effect.</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This collective imagining of this round in space gives us a metaphorical empty terrain where it is possible to enact a micropolitical resistance to capitalism</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shukaitis ’09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"> [Stevphen. “Space is the (non)place: Martians, Marxists, and the outer space of the radical imagination.” The Sociological Review. Pg. 97. University of Essex. JCOOK]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Within the imaginal space created through the imagery ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"> and arid lands of late-modern capitalism’ (2008: 174).</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Put away Baudrillard—his ideal is still comprised of simulacra. Instead embrace the revolutionary potential behind the process of engaging a multiplicity instead of straining for singularity and to reclaim the possibility of individual agency from Baudrillard’s passivity. Humans have a potential to make meaningful change. Capitalism itself is giving the opportunity to change; it is deterritorializing both spaces and identities, giving space for the rhizome and schizo. Acting now prevents the reterritorialization coming later and destroys capitalism’s control over our lives.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Massumi 87</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Brian Massumi, Political philosopher and social theorist, with a PhD in French literature from Yale, “The Simulacrum according to Deleuze and Guattari” NCP-NW]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">How does all of this apply to our present ... becoming realer than real in a monstrous contagion of our own making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Capitalism is the root of all impacts – it controls the military by creating the desire for war to deposit surplus capital and it engineers genocide to check the human surplus. Cap good warrants assume an apolitical cap but the good things cap does are to cover up its negative effects.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Deleuze and Guattari 72 To reject the personal pronouns</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Gilles, philosopher and professor of philosophy at University of Paris VIII at Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst Anti-Oedipus, pg 372-374) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In the capitalist formation of sovereignty-the full body of capital- money...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and this interest is truly revolutionary-a major break from the standpoint of the preconscious</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Four reasons why cap comes first:</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1. No impact to death—humans are atoms arranged one way and death just rearranges them—it’s a new form of becoming </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2. Body counts eliminate questions of suffering. America never stopped slavery, just exported it to sweatshops; never ended fascism just called it patriotism. Util justifies the worst forms of bare life by repressing our desires in the name of life as solely continuing to breathe.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">3. There is no honor or beauty in human life - death is forgotten fast as another worker takes one’s place. Everything wishes for death under capitalism because there is nothing to live for but another routine day at the factory. Capitalism produces carbon copies of life used to power the mills.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Deleuze and Guattari 1972 To reject the personal pronouns</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">But it seems that things are becoming very obscure, for what is this distinction between the experience ...</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> following behind and being swallowed up-a question of regime.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">4. This affirmation and its impact framework begin with an evaluation of desires and instincts. Absent this investigation, change is doomed to failure as desire is tainted by the flaws of past politics. Desire is strangled by the formations of the status quo, turning life against itself and preventing the existence of immaculate joy</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972 To reject the personal pronouns</span> (Anti-Oedipus 345-349)
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Libidinal investment does not bear upon</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the regime of the social syntheses,...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> social machines back to the elementary forces of desire that form them.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Leave your Ks in the tub because the perm will always solve best—we have to keep small parts of the system in place in order to prevent catastrophe – the suicidal attempt to escape the strata in all forms leads only to its bearing down heavier than ever.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1987</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> To reject the personal pronouns</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> (A Thousand Plateaus pp.160-161)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">You have to keep enough of the organism for it to reform ...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> segment by segment, have a small plot of new land at all times</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


==**EOS 1AC Lane**== 
**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.**

**Contention one is warming:**
**It is real and anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**
**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In public discussions of climate change, the full range and __...__ </span>__greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable__

**Reject deniers and media skepticism—they’re paid off and try to engineer a debate on climate science that doesn’t exist**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Certainty in science </span>__If you ask a scientist ...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> media has tragically and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**Warming triggers disease spread, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Finally, there is one major existential threat __...__</span> __<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">to</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">existence of life </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">on this planet.</span>__

**Disease causes extinction**

**Yu 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]]</span>

__A pandemic will kill off all humans.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> __...__ </span> __could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(10).</span>

**Loss of ocean biodiversity causes extinction**
**Craig, 03-**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for ... More importantly, the Black Sea is not necessarily unique. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Just launched a weather satellite – non-uniques your DAs but there’s still a significant data gap**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nature 10/28**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Quirin Schiermeier, “Climate researchers warn of data crisis”, http://www.nature.com/news/climate-researchers-warn-of-data-crisis-1.9261] </span>

<span class="Underline">Climate scientists warn that </span>critical gaps in climate data ... for verifying accuracy and confirming or refuting "surprising" climate-change results based on satellite data.

**We solve for two reasons:**
<span class="Underline">**First is data—monitoring is a prerequisite to any effective warming regime—it allows for critical data sets and ensures compliance.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is still a great deal we do not know about the local and ...</span><span class="Underline"> an opportunity for America to demonstrate global leadership and contribute to building global capacity to understand and more effectively respond to the climate.</span>

**Second is international efforts—the plan paves the way for an international climate regime centered around US leadership.**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable ...</span><span class="Underline"> the current capability shortfall is eliminated. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Greenhouse gas reductions are inevitable but won’t be effective without the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kiefer 9/21**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Dale Kiefer, experienced science writer with a background in biological sciences, “CO2 emissions rising sharply despite cutbacks among industrialised nations”, http://www.earthtimes.org/pollution/co2-emissions-rising-sharply-cutbacks-industrialised-nations/1396/] </span>

CO2 emissions rose<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by 45% </span><span class="Underline">between ... improving energy efficiency. </span>

**Contention two is soft power:**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">International cooperation over warming will fail due to Obama’s lack of climate leadership.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">New York Times 6/22</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">Former Vice President Al </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Gore sharply criticized</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">future of civilization as we know it</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span>

**Plan solves, it increases data sharing and coordinates worldwide Earth observation—key to soft power**
**Wigbels, et al ’08,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. Ryan Faith, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Vincent Sabathier, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Global change presents a stewardship ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;"> leadership in multilateral discussions on Earth observations. </span>__

**Soft power solves terrorism**
**Hammond 9/7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Andrew Hammond, Senior Correspondent, Reuters, “The “missing battle” of 9/11”, http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2011/09/07/the-missing-battle-of-911/] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Almost 10 years after 9/11, </span>__the United States has ...__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> through the planned withdrawal of troops in Afghanistan from 2011-13. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Terrorists will attack by 2013</span>**

<span style="color: #000000;"> **Hall, 10** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking world ...</span><span style="color: #000000;"> be used in a terrorist attack" by 2013</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Terror attack causes nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;"> Ayson 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)</span>

__<span style="color: #000000;">Washington</span>____<span style="color: #000000;">'s early response to ...</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> found itself unable or unwilling to provide.</span>

**And, it causes bioterror and disease spread**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dunn et al. 05</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Mark, Kate Jones, Shaun Phillips, Herald Sun, Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">COUNTER-terror authorities have drawn up plans ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">man-made strain capable of triggering a human flu pandemic was possible.</span>
**Bioterrorism leads to extinction**
**Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered </span>__...__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes. </span>

**Contention three is the economy**
<span class="Underline">**Economic decline now- China, Europe debt crisis, domestics**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Perry 12/14,**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [George L. Perry- Senior Fellow, Economic Studies, The Brookings Institution, “The Economy in 2011 and Beyond: Bright Spots Amid Dark Clouds,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2011/1214_economic_prospects_perry.aspx?rssid=LatestFromBrookings&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopfeeds%2FLatestFromBrookings+%28Brookings%3A+Latest+From+Brookings%29”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In 2011, slow job growth and high unemployment...</span><span class="Underline"> and for its trading partners is very broad. </span>

**Remote sensing data key to the economy.**
**AMS 1**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Economy. </span><span class="Underline">The potential threat ...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> $1 billion each year.6</span>

**Earth observation capabilities is key to prevent the collapse of the insurance industry**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn </span>**Wigbels,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> G. Ryan </span>**Faith**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span> and<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Vincent </span>**Sabathier ‘8**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Application: Catastrophes, Disasters, and Insurance </span>__...__ __dependent on public sources of Earth observation data__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**That’s key to the global economy.**
**Scherer, 2006**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Ron, CSM, “New combatant against global warming: insurance industry,” http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1013/p01s01-usec.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In January, </span>__Marsh, the largest insurance...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> greenhouse-gas emissions in the same way that commodities are bought and sold.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FRIEDBERG AND SHOENFELD 2008** </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Oct 21)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, ...</span> economic crisis could be the straw that breaks the camel's back<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

**Contention 4 is solvency**
**Historically, privatization fails**
**Wigbels et. al, 08** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier ‘8 CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span>
__There are many effective public-private partnerships...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> capability meeting both the private and public sector needs.</span>

**US** **federal action comparatively better than any other country and federal action is key**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The need for information has never been greater,... measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. </span>



==**SETI 1AC**== 
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Contention one is inherency</span>**</span>
**The only barrier to the continuation of the SETI program is federal funding**
**Dolan 4-26 (**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eric W., //editor for Raw Story and the founder of <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.psypost.org/|PsyPost]]</span>,// SETI forced to shut down search for alien life, http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2011/04/26/seti-forced-to-shut-down-search-for-alien-life/)DR</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">The Earth, when seen in an objective or Copernican manner, forces us to view the world in a technological mindset</span>**</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Turnbull 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 125-126, JCOOK]</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and construct all instruments necessary for SETI, including radio telescope astronomy.</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Contention two is capitalism</span>**
<span class="Underline">**This //technik// relationship to the Earth allows the construct of the “planetary earth”, symbolic of the ultimate perversion of the neoliberal phase of capitalism, which allows it to limitlessly grow until it subsumes the entire planet. We control the key internal link to all cap impacts**</span>
**Turnbull 6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 127, JCOOK]</span>


**Capitalism is an expansion of the objectification of the Earth enacted by the mindset of //technik//, dehumanizing all people and preventing any relation of the proletariat to their own physical existence; they exist solely as a productive force, killing intrinsic value to life**
**Marsh '95**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[James, Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, PhD from Northwestern University, Critique Action and Liberation, pg. 277, JKE]</span>

**3. A loss of value to life precedes all other impacts – death is preferable to a valueless life**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchell '05 We reject the gendered language</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Andrew J. Mitchell, Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, "Heidegger and Terrorism," </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">[[http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/brill/rip;jsessionid=7macig5us3335.victoria|Research in Phenomenology]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 171-217]</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Contention three is anthropocentrism</span>**
<span class="Underline">//Technik// causes us to use calculative thinking, abstracted from our own Copernican ontology. This not only perpetuates //technik// but allows anthropocentrism, as we use human existence as the basis of all calculative logic.</span>
**Turnbull '06** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Neil, Cool Dude, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 131 - 132, JCOOK]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This anthropocentric attitude is the equivalent of a continuous Holocaust and slavery. Additionally, this domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war, racism, sexism, and oppression.</span>
<span class="Cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Best</span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> '</span>**07 <span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso [Dr. Steven, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”]</span>


**Anthropocentrism causes environmental crises like global warming, pollution, and species extinction**
**Kortenkamp and Moore 2001** (University of Wisconsin – Madison – ECOCENTRISM AND ANTHROPOCENTRISM: MORAL REASONING ABOUT
ECOLOGICAL COMMONS DILEMMAS http://wikisdis.inrs.ca/images/e/ec/Zz%C2%ABc.pdf)

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Contention four is solvency</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Just engaging in the search results in a return to Dasein- the outcome is meaningless</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 14.6667px;">Tough, '98 </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Allen, University of Toronto, Positive consequences of SETI before detection, Acta Astronautica Volume 42, Issues 10-12, May-June 1998, Pages 745-748]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14.6667px;">Ontological questions logically ground all thinking—both ethical and political—and therefore must be grappled with first. </span>
Dillon 99<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Michael Dillon; Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster; Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics; 97-99; MV]</span>


**AND, PROBABILITY COMES first– DON'T LET EXAGGERATED POTENTIALITIES OVERSHADOW THE VERY REAL IMPACTS THAT ARE HAPPENING EVERY DAY.**
**RESHER 83** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Nicholas, professor of philosophy at Pitt U. "Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management,” p.50)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;">And, mass impacts are used to install fear and to justify and maintain security systems </span>**
**Baudrillard 81**<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;"> **We reject the gendered language** [Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35]</span>

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their descriptions will be used to justify massive violence. Any nuclear war impact read by the negative warrants an aff ballot**
<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua';">Karsten </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Friis,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua';"> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2k</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua';"> [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>
**<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;">The true damage of nuclear weapons is not the war that could result, but the fear and mental destruction that fear of them demands.</span>****<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;">Instead of trying to avoid the catastrophe, we need to embrace its simulation and break the mental chains of nuclear freeze.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Baudrillard in 81</span>**<span class="ff2">**<span style="font-family: Palatino; font-size: 14.6667px;"> [Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 55-57]</span>**</span>
We’ll win terminal impact defense to all disads—death isn’t an impact because it’s inevitable, it’s another form of becoming, and there’s no reason why humans are any better than the atoms we are comprised from. This belief has an external impact of microfascism and desiring-death
Deleuze and Guattari 1972, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray

Leave your Ks in the tub because the perm will always solve best—we have to keep small parts of the system in place in order to prevent catastrophe – the suicidal attempt to escape the strata in all forms leads only to its bearing down heavier than ever.
Deleuze and Guattari 1987<span style="color: #000000;"> (A Thousand Plateaus pp.160-161)</span>


==**EOS 1AC**== 
**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.**

**Contention one is warming:**
**It is real and anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**
**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span>

**Media skepticism and denier research should be rejected—they are paid off and don’t write in peer reviewed scientific journals. A consensus of climate scientists side with the aff.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

**An overwhelming scientific consensus says it is anthropogenic.**
**Plumer 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Brad Plumer, associate editor at The New Republic and writer at the New York Times, “Despite Rick Perry, consensus on climate change keeps strengthening”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/despite-rick-perry-consensus-on-climate-change-keeps-strengthening/2011/08/23/gIQAMT3UZJ_blog.html] </span>

**Warming triggers disease spread, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extincton—it’s the only existential risk.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>


**Disease causes extinction**
**Yu 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]]</span>


**But, environmental monitoring systems are collapsing now—satellites must be replaced.**
**Parthemore and Rogers, 8/1** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">— </span>*Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security **has authored a range of publications on energy, climate change, environmental cooperation Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), B.A. in Political Science-International Relations from the University of California, San Diego <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers “Blinded: the Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security,” 8/1/2011, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.cnas.org/node/6715</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, NL]</span>**

We solve for two reasons:
First is data—monitoring is a prerequisite to any effective warming regime—it allows for critical data sets and ensures compliance.
Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

Second is international efforts—the plan paves the way for an international climate regime centered around US leadership.
Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

A 1% risk of solvency justifies action.
Strom, 2007
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]</span>**


Contention two is soft power:
General international cooperation is inevitable – it’s only a question of effectiveness.
Bosco 8/18**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [David Bosco, assistant professor at American University's School of International Service and a contributing editor at Foreign Policy, “Come Together”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/18/come_together?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full] </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Specific international cooperation over warming will fail due to Obama’s lack of climate leadership.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">New York Times 6/22</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html]</span>**

The plan rectifies this problem by boosting Obama’s credibility and increasing soft power
Wigbels, et al ’08,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. Ryan Faith, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Vincent Sabathier, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf</span>**

Soft power allows the U.S. to combat Iranian proliferation
Chubin, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Shahram Chubin is a nonresident senior associate in the Carnegie Nuclear Policy Program. Based in Geneva, Chubin’s research focuses on nonproliferation, terrorism, and Middle East security issues, “A Grand Bargain with Iran”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/03/23/grand-bargain-with-iran/2tp] </span>**

Iran will nuclearize in a few months
Schmitt 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Gary Schmitt is the director of the Program on Advanced Strategic Studies at AEI and the director of AEI's program on American citizenship. “Iran: Closer to Nuclear Weapons than Most Assume?”, http://blog.american.com/2011/08/iran-much-closer-to-nuclear-weapons-than-most-assume/] </span>**

That causes proliferation which ends in nuclear war.
Wimbush, 2007 **<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[S. Enders, senior fellow at Hudson Institute and director of its Center for Future Security Strategies, “The End of Deterrence: A nuclear Iran will change everything”, 1-11, http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/013/154auoqp.asp?pg=1] </span>**

Contention 3 is solvency
Only federal action solves
Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

Historically, privatization fails
Wigbels et. al, 08** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier ‘8 CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span>

=Negative= 
==Guattarian Ecology== 
===1NC=== 
**Hierarchizing ecological catastrophe between the real of catastrophe – i.e. global warming – and only the minutia of collapse justifies the worst forms of social praxis and ecological violence**
**Guattari** **89** [Pierre-Félix Guattari was a French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" 1989, pp. 41-42]

**The world around us is failing – on the brink of extinction, our lives are not joyous but anxious and the solutions of technology have failed us. Politics has no hope of saving us.**
**Guattari 89** [Pierre-Félix Guattari was a French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" 1989, pp. 27-29]

**Our alternative is a step from technology to aesthetics. The problem with status quo ecology is its fixation and transcendence. We choose to avoid dogma – take hold of unity when it presents itself, but more importantly begin ecological transformations with the self.**
**Guattari 89** [Pierre-Félix Guattari was a French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" 1989, pp. 48-53]
===Overview evidence=== 
**global capitalism ensures the enslavement of the third world by exploiting vulnerable groups while feeding them mass media images to placate them**
**Ian Pindar and Paul Sutton, 2000** (Translators Introduction to The Three Ecologies. Pindar reviews regularly for the Guardian, the Times Literary Supplement and the London Review of Books: Sutton is an Ecosophist and has a PhD in ecology) pp. 5-6
==Heidegger 1NC== 
**The affirmative’s attempt to eradicate social problems by using technology and manipulating the world turns all beings into resources to be used and disposed of.**
**Sabatino 7**<span style="font-size: 8px;">—Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Religion at Daemen College (Charles J, © 2007, Trivium Publications, “A Heideggerian Reflection on the Prospects of Technology,” [[http://www.janushead.org/10-1/sabatino.pdf]], RBatra)</span>

**This technological thought is the precondition for extinction – viewing things are resources will result in ontological destruction this outweighs ontic violence**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Caputo 93</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8px;">—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (John Caputo, //<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Demythologizing Heidegger</span>//, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])</span>

**The alternative is to refuse to engage in the affirmatives enframing in favor of questioning ontology. Refusing to view beings as raw materials opens us up to new forms of dwelling.**
<span class="Underline">**Thiele, 97, -** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ph.D. department of politics at University of florida, [Leslie Paul Thiele, “Postmodernity and the Routinization of Novelty: Heidegger on Boredom and Technology”, Polity, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Summer, 1997), pp. 489-517, jstor]</span>
==Strategies== 
I haven't been keeping great tabs on the neg, but here's what I remember going for:
-Guattarian Ecology K against SPS and EOS
-ESA CP and ptix against SPS, SSA, and EOS
-Consult Russia and Russia relations DA against SBMD, Brilliant Pebbles, and weaponization
-Heidegger against ORS
-DnG against black aestheticism
-Weaponization disad+ heg bad+ prolif good against SBMD
-T-"its" against an aff that had the DOD fund private sector development of SSA
-Warming advantage CP (not sure which)+ Iran oil DA+ heg bad against SPS
-Aerogel CP+ weaponization DA against debris
-Schopenhauer against SSA
-a hyper-specific 9 plank advantage counterplan and weaponization DA against SSA (fun times messing with Lane Tech)
-ESA and elections against a whole ton of affs
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]