[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===PLAN TEXT=== 
Text: The United States federal government should develop, and fully fund a demonstration of, space-based solar power.

===WARMING=== 
**We’ll start the debate here - warming is real and anthropogenic**
**Braganza 6/14/11** (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515)
In public discussions of climate … rapid future warming is irrefutable

**Minor warming thaws permafrost that causes 6 degree warming**
**Skeptical Science 10/26/11** (The goal of Skeptical Science is to explain what peer reviewed science has to say about global warming, “Not so Permanent Permafrost,” http://www.skepticalscience.com/news.php?n=1051)
Permafrost thaws when the land … soils where permafrost is present.

**Prefer peer review- fringe theories are corrupt and unqualified**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24/1**1 (Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)
Certainty in science If you … thoroughly failed the Australian public.

**30 year transition away from fossil fuels inevitable- causes resource wars, decreased oil dependency but is too late to solve warming**
**Klare 6/29/11** (michael, professor of peace and world security studies at hampshire college, a tomdispatch regular, and the author, most recently, of rising powers, shrinking planet. A documentary movie version of his previous book, blood and oil, is available from the media education foundation, “energy: the new thirty years' war ,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jun/29/energy-war-global-conflict
A 30-year war for energy … in the nick of time.

**Warming is the only existential risk- combatting it overwhelms all other decision calculi and SPS is the only mechanism to solve**
**Hsu 10** (dr. Feng, sr. Vice president systems engineering & risk management space energy group, “harnessing the sun: embarking on humanity's next giant leap,” online journal of space communication, winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)
It has become increasingly evident … has a chance to make a difference.

**Warming acidifies oceans**
Claire L **Parkinson** is a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, where she's worked since July 1978, with a research emphasis on sea ice and its role in the global climate system. Claire has a B.A. in mathematics from Wellesley College and a Ph.D. in climatology from Ohio State University. She is a fellow of both the American Meteorological Society and Phi Beta Kappa. **2010** The Coming Climate Crisis
Estimates suggest that if current … 40% following a pH reduction from 8.5 to 7.5.50

**Ocean acidification causes extinction- biodiversity, oxygen loss, and empirics**
**Rogers and Laffoley 11** (Alex and David, Ph.D. in marine invertebrate systematics and geneticsfrom the University of Liverpool is a Professor in Conservation Biology at the Department of Zoology, University of Oxford and Dan, PhD on marine ecology at the University of Exeter, and Senior Advisor, Marine Science and Conservation Global Marine and Polar Programme, IPSO Oxford, “International earth system expert workshop on ocean stresses and impacts”, July 20, 2011, http://www.stateoftheocean.org/pdfs/1906_IPSO-LONG.pdf)

The workshop enabled leading experts … past 600 million years (Barnosky et al., 2009).


**Tipping points prevent adaptation – significant emission cuts are key**
**Hansen 8** – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science

James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur … all this will be wildlife.

**SPS solves global warming- new tests solve conversion and transmission problems**
**Hadhazy 9** (adam hadhazy, staff writer for the scientific american, 4/16/9, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day, 6/23/11)
The challenges of building this … , associate director of the csp.

**US leadership alone gets the international community on board**
**Hsu 10** – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
An major effort led by … energy for all of humanity.

===HEGEMONY=== 
**2 Internal links:**
**First, aerospace:**

**The Aerospace industry is facing challenges – investment invigorates the industry**
**Materna 11**[ Dr. Robert Materna, Professor of Business Administration and Director of the Center for Aviation and Aerospace Leadership at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, “The Power of Vision in the Aviation & Aerospace Industry” March 3 2011 http://thecaalblog.com/aviation-and-aerospace-leadership/the-power-of-vision-in-the-aviation-aerospace-industry.html]
It is clear that the … industry for years to come.

**A collapsing aerospace sector takes down key sectors of US hegemony**
**Walker et al 2** – Chairman of the USAI
Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf
Defending our nation against its … the world’s preeminent military power.

**Only a federal investment into SSP invigorates US aerospace leadership**
**NSSO 7** National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … a powerful expression of this imperative.

**Second is oil dependence:**
**Oil dependence ensures that we can’t respond to global crises, it makes it too expensive to conduct ALL operations**
**Bender 7** *Bryan Bender is a Staff Reporter for the Boston Globe **The study cited is from LMI a governmental consulting firm ***Milton R. Copulos is president of the national defense council foundation [http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2007/05/01/pentagon_study_says_oil_reliance_strains_military/?page=2, May 1st 2007, “Pentagon Study says oil reliance strains military”]
WASHINGTON -- A new study ordered by … key subordinates," the report says.

**Heg contains every nuclear conflict**
**Kagan, 7** - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.

**SPS provides reliable energy and solves resource wars**
**NSSO 8** *National Space Security Office of the USFG [Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]
Like all species in a closed … consumer of petroleum in the U.S.

===SOLVENCY=== 

**A major government investment and demonstration ensure sustainable and environmentally friendly growth**
**IAA 11**
International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg311/sg311finalreport.pdf
Finding 1: Fundamentally new energy technologies … technology in-space tests and demonstrations.

**The plan significantly retires SPS risk – key to jump-starting private investment**
**NSSO 7** National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Over the course of the … for energy security begins immediately.

**Tech for affordable SPS exists – plan creates the necessary economies of scale**
**McLinko, 10** - SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)RK
ABSTRACT Space-based solar power (… the world’s growing energy needs.

**US investment turns us into a net energy exporter**
**Chapman et al 11** – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, including the rectenna as well as construction and launch of Block II satellites. Amortized over

an expected life of 30 years … electricity as well as petroleum.

**Plan creates economies of scale that retires SPS risk**
**Hsu 10** – PhD in Engineering

Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
Why solar energy from space? … models for overcoming these issues.

=Negative= 

Condo bad
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]