[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC International Relations DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Targeted killing destroys US international credibility and support**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Cullen 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter Cullen, Colonel in the US Army, USAWC Class of 2007, SRP submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements of the Master of Strategic Studies Degree, U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, March 30, 2007, “Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign Against Terror” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA471529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Another criticism is that the … defend itself against transnational terrorism. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Targeted killings strain international relations—empirically confirmed**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Blum and Heymann 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gabriella Blum is Assistant Professor of Law, Harvard Law School and Philip Heymann is James Barr Ames Professor of Law, Harvard Law School, “Law and Policy of Targeted Killing” Harvard National Security Journal, Vol. 1 (June 27, 2010) [[http://www.harvardnsj.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/Vol-1_Blum-Heymann_Final.pdf]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When targeted killing operations are … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that left eighteen civilians dead). </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism—turns the case**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Byman 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the … least, the United States has to.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Arrests CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Text: the United States federal government should capture and interrogate suspected terrorists**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Solves the aff—empirically**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ratner 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Steven R. Ratner is Bruno Simma Collegiate Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School, “Predator and Prey: Seizing and Killing Suspected Terrorists Abroad” The Journal of Political Philosophy, Vol. 15, No. 3 (2007) p. 251–275 Wiley Online Library]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In terms of recent US … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">European Court of Human Rights</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Arrests are better b/c targets can be interrogated**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Byman 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assessing Whether Israel's targeted killings … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">men</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">tell no tales</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Experts agree that interrogation is necessary to prevent terrorism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Thiessen 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Marc Thiessen is a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and served in senior positions in the Pentagon and the White House from 2001 to 2009 “The CIA’s Questioning Worked” April 21, 2009 http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/20/AR2009042002818_pf.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Consider the Justice Department memo…vast majority would support continuing it.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC AT Terrorism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Drone attacks cause an unprecedented level of resentment, anger, and intensify insurgency** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ahmed 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sikander Ahmed 10, University of Michigan Ann Arbor; Assistant Professor of Law and Policy, LUMS University, Lahore, Pakistan, War on Terrorism: Self Defense, Operation Enduring Freedom, and the Legality of U.S. Drone Attacks in Pakistan) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The use of force is … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">insurgency, civil unrest, and terrorism.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Targeted killing increases the morale of terrorists through the martyrdom effect**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hunter 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Byron Hunter served as an intelligence officer with the Defense intelligence Agency, specializing in the analysis of terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures. Mr. Hunter has written for many leading intelligence and security-related publications, including Janes Intelligence Review, the United States Naval Institute's Proceedings and The Journal of Counterterrorism and Homeland Security International. He has also served as the managing editor of the Journal of Strategic Security and Special Operations Journal. Mr. Hunter holds a Master's Degree in Unconventional Warfare from the American Military University and a Master's Degree in international Security Studies from the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, “Targeted Killing: Self-Defense, Preemption, and the War on Terrorism” Journal of Strategic Security (2009) http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1048&context=jss&sei-redir=1#search=%22Targeted%20Killing%3A%20Self-Defense%2C%20Preemption%2C%20War%20Terrorism%22</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">downside to targeted … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">part of the attack itself.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The majority of the people we kill in targeted killing are innocent**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Raja 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Asif Haroon Raja, “The US policy of targeted killings by drones” Asian Tribune 4/14/2011 http://www.asiantribune.com/news/2011/04/14/us-policy-targeted-killings-drones</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Total drone strikes from 2004…killing over 22000 innocent civilians </span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Sacrificing civilian lives for a foreign policy objective is always impermissible.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Santos 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Boaventura de Sousa Santos, Bad Subjects, Collective Suicide?, Issue 63, April 2003 http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the…for what must be destroyed</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**One in a million chance of nuke terror**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DeGroot 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gerard DeGroot, Professor of History at the University of St. Andrews, November 2009. “Dismissing Doomsday,” Arms Control Today, online: [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_11/BookReview]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In examining the terrorist scenario…material and information for bomb-making.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Targeted killings lead to the hydra effect, politically unifying terrorist groups and victimized countries in violence against the attacking country. So power vacuums as a result of targeted killing doesn’t decentralize terrorist groups—instead the opposite occurs—stronger leaders emerge and backlash is evident. Historical precedent in Israel confirms.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Blum and Heymann 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gabriella, assistant Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, and Philip, James Barr Ames Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. 6/27/2010. “Law and Policy of Targeted Killing”, Harvard National Security Journal. Vol. 1. 146-170. Pg. 163)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">An </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">immediate consequence of eliminating…or its unintentional collateral consequences.</span>__</span>

===1NC AT Terrorism --- Yemen=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Sole reliance on targeted killing fails in Yemen** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Boucek 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Christopher Boucek, PhD and M.A. from the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London, was an associate in the Carnegie Middle East Program where his research focused on security challenges in the Arabian Peninsula and Northern Africa, “Yemen After Saleh’s Return and Awlaki’s Exit” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace October 27, 2011 http://carnegieendowment.org/2011/10/27/yemen-after-saleh-s-return-and-awlaki-s-exit/8kpb#danger</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Drone strikes aren’t the ultimate … Yemen don’t get any bigger</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]