[[toc]]
===COIN 1AC - Round 1=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should phase down the United States federal government’s military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counter-terrorism force posture.

Contention One – Status Quo

Obama’s defending withdrawal now – but he can’t explain the details of the transition
CNN Wire 4/20 http://articles.cnn.com/2011-04-20/politics/afghanistan.boehner.visit_1_counterinsurgency-strategy-petraeus-afghan-security?_s=PM:POLITICS

U.S. House Speaker John Boehner wrapped up a two-day trip to Afghanistan Wednesday with a demand that President Barack Obama explain how the "pace and scope" of a planned U.S. troop withdrawal will not undermine the country's fragile security gains. The president has repeatedly said he is confident the United States can meet a self-imposed deadline to begin bringing U.S. troops back from Afghanistan in July without compromising Afghan security, though military commanders and government officials have raised concern about the readiness of Afghan security forces. "Any drawdown of U.S. troops must be based on the conditions on the ground, not the political calculations," Boehner said in a prepared statement released by his office. "If the Obama administration insists on beginning to draw down troops in July, it must explain how the pace and scope of such a move will not undermine the tenuous progress we've made thus far. To date it has not done so." Obama set the withdrawal timetable in 2009 when he announced the deployment of an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan. All U.S. troops are set to be out of the country by 2014. The president reportedly met with Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, last month to discuss the pace of the withdrawal. Petraeus later testified before Congress about the plans, saying he was likely to recommend that some combat troops be among the first to return to the United States.

We won’t meet the summer deadline
Cohen 11 (Michael A. Cohen, has taught at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat, Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, worked at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Foreign Policy magazine, and as chief speechwriter for Sen. Chris Dodd, ran the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative, bachelor's degree in international relations from American University and a master's degree from Columbia University, “The White House's Credibility Gap on Afghanistan Deepens” http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/01/the-white-houses-credibility-gap-on-afghanistan-deepens.html)

I've been watching State of the Union speech for for probably 30 years and I've yet to hear a memorable one - and tonight will not break that streak. What a snoozer. Although frankly from a political perspective I thought it was actually pretty effective - makes Obama look like the adult-in-chief who is willing to work across the aisle with Republicans. But from a policy perspective there was very little of interest and it took all my energy to stop playing online scrabble . . . and in the end, scrabble won. But then there was the foreign policy section, which actually wasn't boring . . . but instead blood-boiling: We have also taken the fight to al Qaeda and their allies abroad. In Afghanistan, our troops have taken Taliban strongholds and trained Afghan Security Forces. Our purpose is clear – by preventing the Taliban from reestablishing a stranglehold over the Afghan people, we will deny al Qaeda the safe-haven that served as a launching pad for 9/11. Thanks to our heroic troops and civilians, fewer Afghans are under the control of the insurgency. There will be tough fighting ahead, and the Afghan government will need to deliver better governance. But we are strengthening the capacity of the Afghan people and building an enduring partnership with them. This year, we will work with nearly 50 countries to begin a transition to an Afghan lead. And this July, we will begin to bring our troops home. I'm not sure how this could be any more misleading (or insulting with the obligatory 9/11 reference): * Training of the Afghan security forces is not progressing well or did the President miss the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan testify this week that our efforts on this front are failing badly. * Fewer Afghans might be under the control of the Taliban but far more Afghans live in provinces where security is deteriorating and in 2010 far more of them were killed in the war-fighting. * Building an "enduring partnership" with the Afghan people; somehow I'm thinking the part where Hamid Karzai today lashed out at the international community "for fomenting a 'crisis' by pressing him to inaugurate parliament" is not what he had in mind. * As for the notion that the Afghan government will deliver better governance . . the less said about that the better. I'm a former speechwriter so I get that the President wants to offer American people a rosy view of the war - but nothing about how he described the situation in Afghanistan provides an accurate assessment of what is happening in Afghanistan. And there was no sense at all - beyond mere platitudes - of what troop withdrawals in Afghanistan will look like or under what conditions they will occur (just that they will happen, even likely in truncated form).

As long as we pursue a nation-building strategy we will never leave
Walt 10 (Stephen M. Walt, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University, “Bait and switch in Afghanistan?" November 10, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/11/10/bait_and_switch_in_afghanistan)

McClatchy news service reports that the Obama administration is starting to back away from the president's July 2011 timeline for a de-escalation of the war in Afghanistan. Instead, "the administration hopes to introduce a timeline that calls for the withdrawal of U.S. and NATO forces from Afghanistan by 2014." Assuming the report is accurate, it shouldn't be a surprise. I don't know anyone who thought the U.S. could turn things around in eighteen months, and that particular deadline was little more than a piece of political sleight-of-hand designed to make escalation look like a temporary step. Reasonable people can disagree about whether Obama's decision to escalate in Afghanistan was the right one (I think it wasn't), but Obama's straddle on this issue is one reason why some of his most enthusiastic supporters have become disenchanted. Of course, there's a long tradition of presidents telling the American people that some new military mission won't take long and won't cost that much. Nixon told us he has a "secret plan" to end the Vietnam War (he didn't) and Bill Clinton said U.S. troops would only be in Bosnia for 12 months (it was more like nine years). President George W. Bush and his advisors said that the occupation of Iraq would be brief and pay for itself yet we are still there today. And now Obama has done essentially the same thing: selling an increased committed by suggesting that it is only temporary, and then backing away from his own self-imposed deadline. This report also suggests that the war is not going as well as we're being told. We may be achieving some successes on the battlefield, but as with Iraq, the real challenge is political. Success requires building some sort of effective and legitimate governing authority in Afghanistan, and achieving some sort of political reconciliation among various contending groups. If this goal means building a strong, centralized Afghan state (something that has never existed before) then we are talking about an effort that will take years, costs tens of billions of additional dollars, and could still fail. It also requires rooting out corruption in the Karzai government, but the news on that front is hardly encouraging. Al Qaeda's leaders are no longer in Afghanistan and they don't need safe havens there in order to threaten the U.S., so it is no longer even clear why we are engaged in a massive effort at social engineering in this country. Or as I've said before: if the situation in Afghanistan were exactly what it is today, but no U.S. forces were present, would Obama have ordered 100,000-plus troops to go there? I don't think so, but he'll keep them there for the rest of his presidency (whether he gets one or two terms), and he or his successor could end up facing essentially the same choice in 2014 that he is facing today. Barring a new approach from the United States, does anyone think it will be any easier to change course then?

We’ll lose the war anyway – can’t secure the country without government legitimacy
Goodson and Johnson 4/26 (Larry Goodson is a Professor of Middle East Studies at the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle, Pennsylvania; Thomas H. Johnson is a Research Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey California, and directs the NPS Program for Culture and Conflict Studies. Both authors have had occasion to provide input to senior government officials about U.S. policy toward Afghanistan. This essay is a condensed version of an article that will appear in the Fall issue of Orbis, FPRI’s quarterly journal of world affairs. April 26, 2011 “Parallels With Past: How Soviets Lost In Afghanistan, How US Is Losing – Analysis” http://www.eurasiareview.com/parallels-with-past-how-soviets-lost-in-afghanistan-how-us-is-losing-analysis-26042011/)

First, security is not the key for Afghanistan, although insecurity undermines efforts on the other pillars. Rather, we see the center of gravity as government legitimacy. Historical analyses have suggested that success in a counterinsurgency (COIN) is largely proportional to the extent to which the regime is viewed as legitimate by the population. If the government is legitimate then the insurgency will likely not succeed, but counterinsurgency will fail on behalf of a government that its own people hold to be illegitimate. Indeed, the Counterinsurgency Field Manual of the U.S. Army and Marine Corps says, “Victory cannot be gained until the people accept the legitimacy of the government…”[19] A government that is seen as legitimate by 85 to 90 percent of the population is the sine qua non of successful counterinsurgency. [20] It is extremely problematic that the vast majority of people in Afghanistan (and especially in regions outside of Kabul) today do not view as legitimate the national authority from Kabul, due in part to the allegations of rampant corruption associated with central government authorities. [21] In numerous areas, especially in the rural Southern Pashtun hinterlands, the Taliban are not only doing a better job of governance and providing justice than Kabul, they are also seen as more legitimate than the distant and unpopular leadership in Kabul. The legitimacy of Afghan governance has traditionally been derived from two sources: dynastic, usually in the form of monarchies and tribal patriarchies, or religious, and sometimes both. [22] This problem of legitimacy is especially acute at the local and village level of rural Pashtun society, for whom dynastic and religious authority has been paramount for millennia. [23] Just as the present Kabul government is having an extremely difficult time establishing legitimacy, so too did the Afghan government during the Soviet occupation struggle. The PDPA was never popular with the vast majority of the Afghan people and obviously could not derive any legitimacy from the sources suggested above. Security cannot come from a strong foreign force on behalf of rulers that people view as corrupt, inefficient, and ineffective. Nor can it come from a domestic army led by those elites. Historically, the Afghan state could be predatory and extractive, as long as it was not intrusive or engaged in social engineering in the countryside. Even if the government has dynastic or religious sources of legitimacy, historically it still had to enter into a bargain with local elites in the countryside and provincial centers. Such bargains were lubricated with patronage, so that local elites could have power and dispense goods and services to their people, while simultaneously keeping the unpredictable Kabul government at bay. The system of government that was imposed on Afghanistan after 9/11 by the West and those Afghan elites who benefitted from it was highly centralized, although the initial economy of force counterterrorism military strategy meant that local warlords were allowed to persist as augmentation to the inadequate outside and national forces engaged in security provision. Also, while money has poured into the country for a multitude of reasons, there has been little success in connecting the economic largesse to the development of governmental legitimacy. In fact, just the opposite has occurred, whereby the new Afghan political elites at the central levels have enriched themselves so obscenely that the post-9/11 windfall has diminished rather than enhanced governmental legitimacy. Likewise, there has been almost no meaningful effort to pursue justice, a concept at the core of Islamic notions of good governance, and especially critical in post-conflict societies. When so much blood has been spilled by so many people within a society for such a long period of time, some mechanism for transitional justice is needed to break the cycle of bloodshed, such as the famous “Truth and Reconciliation” approach of post-apartheid South Africa. The 2002 Emergency Loya Jirga (Grand Council) that cemented Karzai’s position as President illustrates this perfectly, and sadly, for Afghanistan. One author served as an International Monitor and Technical Advisor for Elections for that process. Weeks of hard and often dangerous work in the provinces by Afghans and international monitors alike occurred to sideline warlords, war criminals, drug dealers, and many other dangerous characters from playing a role in the leadership of the country. Yet, when the big meeting finally occurred in Kabul, all the dubious characters showed up and got credentials from the Loya Jirga Commission to participate anyway. Once they were inside the big tent they could throw their weight around and ensure a result they wanted. Justice was sacrificed on the altar of expediency, and has been repeatedly thereafter.

Only a counter-terrorism posture solves and clarifies our war aims
Fair 11 (C. Christine Fair is an assistant professor at Georgetown University and the author of Cuisines of the Axis of Evil and Other Irritating States, “False choices in Afghanistan,” January 11, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/01/11/false_choices_in_afghanistan

ISLAMABAD -- Advocates of the current U.S. counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan deploy false choices and flawed assumptions to defend the status quo. Proponents of "staying the course" delegitimize the pursuit of better options for ending this deadly nine-year war by reducing the debate to a dubious binary: maintain a long-term counterinsurgency (COIN) campaign against the Taliban or leave Afghanistan after ignominiously "cutting and running." It is time to reframe this public discourse over the costly status quo and consider a new way forward. Vice President Joe Biden, who is currently in Afghanistan and headed to Pakistan shortly, has argued, among others, that a policy of "Counterterrorism Plus" will more effectively secure genuine U.S. security objectives. He's right. This approach calls for a much smaller deployment of forces that would focus upon al-Qaeda, including continued drone attacks on al-Qaeda and international militants both in Afghanistan and Pakistan's tribal areas. Proponents of such a plan argue for continuing the training mission of Afghan National Security Forces with a dedicated focus upon sustainability as well as continued and long-term initiatives to develop civilian capacity in the Afghan government. Obviously, this implies a sustained -- albeit a different and perhaps smaller -- U.S. presence in Afghanistan. This is not "cut and run." As a proponent of some variant of a "Counterterrorism Plus" approach, I argue that the U.S. enemies are al-Qaeda and international terrorist groups -- not the largely parochial Afghan Taliban. Clearly, the United States must deny al-Qaeda access to Afghanistan. However, U.S. intelligence officials note that this goal largely has been accomplished: only 50 to 100 al-Qaeda operatives are presently in Afghanistan with many more in Pakistan. Yet Washington must work to ensure that Afghanistan does not again become an al-Qaeda sanctuary. Abandoning the current aggressive COIN effort in favor of an approach targeting terrorists rather than Taliban insurgents would also be welcomed by many Afghans. Polls show that Afghans are increasingly disapproving in their assessment of both the presence and performance of U.S. and NATO forces in their country. Afghan President Hamid Karzai himself requested the United States to decrease the intensity of the conflict and "reduce the intrusiveness into the daily Afghan life." Contrary to COIN proponents who argue that abandoning COIN will degrade U.S. intelligence about al-Qaeda, intelligence is just as likely to improve as Afghans, who dislike al-Qaeda, may be more open to sharing information when the disliked COIN effort is scaled back and abandoned. Washington must continue development assistance, investing in Afghan governance capacity and strengthening the Afghan National Security Forces while working vigorously to redress corruption in the Afghan government and in the donor community. To succeed, Washington will need to secure a strategic partnership with Afghanistan that permits the United States to maintain a critical presence in Regional Commands East and South to effectively operate against al-Qaeda and other international terrorists ensconced along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Karzai is likely to accede to such a partnership. He wants the COIN campaign to end, but he needs U.S. assistance, fears al-Qaeda, and resents the sanctuaries in Pakistan. This course of action hinges upon several assumptions that are routinely rebuffed by COIN proponents who have little empirical evidence for their own claims. Each merits genuine debate. First, today's Taliban -- a confederation of local commanders -- differ from the Taliban of September 10, 2001. The mid-level leadership has been consistently eliminated and replaced. Many of these new commanders were teenagers when Mullah Omar consolidated his organization. Pakistan recognizes that the erstwhile Quetta Shura is a declining asset, that it has little control over this new generation and thus, is struggling to control this emergent "Neo-Taliban." COIN's proponents ignore these realities and rehearse the Taliban's refusal to hand over Osama bin Laden some nine years ago. However, other regional experts with decades of experience there believe that many -- by no means all -- Taliban-allied commanders would negotiate away ties with al-Qaeda with an appropriate process of reconciliation. Contrary to popular opinion, al-Qaeda is not present throughout Afghanistan; rather, it is generally rooted in the northern provinces of Kunar and Nuristan and is far removed from the Taliban in the southern provinces of Helmand and Kandahar. Those who remain committed to violence would become targets of the invigorated counterterrorism campaign. Second, this option implicitly assumes that some sort of reconciliation with the Taliban is inevitable if not necessary. While Washington opposes this, it is an exclusively Afghan domestic affair. Washington's only legitimate interest is precluding a return of al-Qaeda. Afghans have an inalienable right to decide their future -- even if it includes actors that are deemed reprehensible elsewhere. Third, a "counterterrorism plus" strategy assumes that the Taliban -- despite their increasingly global Islamist rhetoric -- remain focused upon Afghanistan and ousting foreigners and are less threatening to U.S. and international security than the raft of Islamist militants based in Pakistan, which are tied to international terrorism. The logistical dependence upon Pakistan to supply the counterinsurgency in Afghanistan limits the U.S.'s ability to demand that Pakistan abandon groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and the al-Qaeda-linked Haqqani network. Fourth, his counterterrorism approach repudiates the conventional wisdoms about the "successes in Iraq" and the much-lauded surge there. While history alone will tell whether Iraq has in fact been a "success," scholars are increasingly interrogating the common wisdom that these ostensible successes in Iraq were due to the surge and General David Petraeus' COIN strategy rather than critical internal changes in Iraqi politics. More fundamentally, the assumptions of Petraeus' COIN doctrine simply may not apply to Afghanistan where there are no functional line ministries, where the insurgents are rural and cannot easily be extricated from the local population, and where the insurgents are interlaced with families who may disapprove of their relatives' activities but do not want them dead. Some skeptics of this proposed way forward predictably will deploy the "women's rights" or "human rights" cards to reject such a policy on the basis of the Taliban's appalling savagery. They have a point. But the U.S. and NATO have cultivated shady allies across Afghanistan for purely instrumental purposes, including warlords, drug traffickers, and other unsavory characters whose own records on these same issues are equally repugnant. The values of a counterterrorism plus strategy are manifold. First, it decreases the loss of American life and treasure as well as many more Afghan lives. Second, reducing the combat operations will likely increase the amount and quality of intelligence that will better enable the fight against al-Qaeda and other international terrorists in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Third, it will temper a powerful narrative of jihadis everywhere that the U.S. presence in Afghanistan is an occupation force. Fourth and perhaps most importantly, it will relieve the U.S. dependence upon Pakistan to sustain the war, freeing up U.S. national power to focus upon the international terrorists there. The Obama administration must reject these prevailing false choices and get down to the business of defining a new and better way forward. 

Contention Two – Stability

Abandoning nationbuilding leads to decentralization
Markey 10 (Daniel Markey, senior fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations. He recently served as project director of the CFR-sponsored Independent Task Force on U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan and as the senior production advisor for the CFR.org Crisis Guide: Pakistan, December 3, “Failing Afghanistan” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/12/03/failing_afghanistan?page=0,0)

President Barack Obama's surprise trip to Afghanistan on Dec. 3 is just the latest sign that his administration's latest review of U.S. policy in Afghanistan is in full swing. "Today, we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban control and more Afghans have the chance to build a more hopeful future," he told an assembled crowd at Bagram Air Force Base. "You will succeed in your mission." Back in Washington, officials are trying to determine what success looks like. They are assembling a comprehensive "report card" of U.S. efforts, with inputs from all the departments and agencies that have a hand in the region. The White House wants to know which of its policies have demonstrated success, and which ones are failing. Many assessments will probably prove inconclusive. The effect of the U.S. troop surge on the military balance of power will be particularly tough to measure, especially in those regions of Afghanistan where new forces have only been at work for six months or less. This will also be true for a wide variety of other newly expanded programs, for which resources will need to be applied over a longer time frame in order to show concrete signs of progress. Kabul, after all, can't be rebuilt in a day. Amid this sea of ambiguity, at least one clear judgment is possible: Washington's political strategy in Afghanistan deserves a failing grade. The U.S. political strategy is comprised of different elements, many of which attempt to alleviate Afghanistan's poor "governance capacity" -- that is, its inability to provide basic services to its people. This is indisputably true. The Afghan government has proved itself incapable, for instance, of establishing local courts and legal institutions, to the point that many Afghans approach the Taliban to adjudicate their civil disputes. Afghanistan's poor health care, education, and transportation infrastructure all hinder economic opportunity and development. These are serious problems, but they are common to many other poor, developing countries around the world. And many of those countries are not plagued by raging insurgencies. As analyst Steve Coll pointed out this summer, those conducting the December review should focus on the fundamental -- and truly political -- question of whether a majority of the Afghan people and their leaders are working toward the same goals as their international allies. Today they are not. In the heady days after the Taliban were toppled, the Kabul government was widely accepted as a force for national and international unity. But over nine long years of war and mistakes on all sides, that unity has broken. Many influential Afghans who are natural partners in the fight against international terrorism feel alienated from their government and are deeply frustrated with the United States for propping it up. For some, last year's fraudulent presidential election was the final straw. Others, especially minority groups and women, fear the outcome of "reconciliation" talks between an exclusive, unrepresentative group of President Hamid Karzai's cronies and Taliban insurgents. Still other powerful figures have been disappointed by recent parliamentary elections -- another exercise tainted by massive, politically motivated fraud and whose results were greeted by protests from disenfranchised Afghans. In short, there are good reasons to fear that Afghanistan is falling apart at the seams, and things have only gotten worse over recent months. The Afghan government's inability to mobilize public support makes the war more difficult and costly -- in American lives and dollars -- every day. As challenging as the U.S. military effort may be, it will become next to impossible should political fissures worsen, transforming the Taliban insurgency largely centered in Afghanistan's south and east into a countrywide civil war. Unfortunately, Washington's policymakers have too often equated Afghan "politics" with the narrow question of what to do about Karzai. The Afghan president's erratic behavior and the corruption of his closest allies are big problems, especially if Pakistani journalist Ahmed Rashid has it right that he has become "decidedly anti-Western." Even so, Karzai's critics usually stumble on the question, "If not Karzai, then who?" This is the wrong question to ask. Karzai represents a major obstacle mainly because the new Afghan state was born with a fatal flaw -- a presidency that dominates the national and provincial governments. Numerous assessments, dating back to the process that generated Afghanistan's current Constitution, have lamented the fact that Karzai faces too few checks and balances and too few mechanisms for building and maintaining a national consensus. Afghanistan's true problem is its government's structure, not the personality flaws of its leader. Many new democracies, especially those born in post-civil war conditions, write constitutions with strong parliaments so that former combatants can share power in the national government. Many select federal systems so that provincially elected leaders have a voice in the management of their internal affairs. Afghanistan has neither of these features, and it shows. Nevertheless, calls for structural political change in Afghanistan have not been taken seriously within the U.S. government. Instead, officials have argued that Washington's political failure could be reduced to a "Karzai-management problem." If we could only get the right balance of carrots and sticks, these policymakers have maintained, then we could convince Karzai to develop a functioning Afghan government. And so, over the course of the past year, we have witnessed an assiduous U.S. campaign to build a better partnership with Karzai. That effort persists. Obama's itinerary in Afghanistan Dec. 3 included a conversation with Karzai, reportedly to address their latest bout of tensions. When cooperation with Karzai has failed, U.S. officials have tried to circumvent him by working directly with local Afghan officials or partnering with national ministries. Time and again, however, they end up running headlong into an omnipresent presidency. This is true, in part, because Karzai has complete authority to appoint provincial governors and hundreds of other local government officials. Afghan officials with the political authority to make critical decisions routinely defer to Karzai for fear of making the "wrong" call and falling out of favor. U.S. efforts to combat Afghan corruption have been especially stymied by Karzai's personal interference. U.S. political strategy always recenters on Karzai because Afghanistan's government revolves around the president. Fostering meaningful political reform in any country represents a daunting challenge and should inspire some reasonable fears in Washington. However, in this case, the benefits of addressing the structural flaws in Afghanistan's government outweigh the risks. True, Karzai and his allies will fight any loss of control tooth and nail. They will accuse Washington of inappropriate interference in the affairs of a sovereign Afghan state. They might release hysterical public statements that make Karzai's recent outbursts look like child's play. But U.S. officials need not be deterred by such charges. They must take into account the fact that Washington already interferes in Afghan politics every day, expending U.S. resources and manpower to bolster the current Karzai-centric system. There are also real concerns that U.S. officials are not well positioned to manage the complex mechanics of Afghan political reform. The history of Washington's interference in constructing Afghan institutions is not a happy one. U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad and other international officials did play central roles during the first constitutional loya jirga, and look where that got us. But such hands-on manipulation might not be necessary this time around. Instead, Washington could offer a green light to a range of Afghan opposition leaders who would be willing to launch their own reform process. This group should include leaders from each of the main Afghan ethnic groups and political factions, such as Karzai's 2009 presidential election challengers, former government ministers, and parliamentary opposition figures. An Afghan-led reform process that is inclusive, re-energizes constituents who are now sitting on the sidelines out of frustration with both the Taliban and the Karzai government, and begins to change the structure of the Afghan government in ways that foster national unity and power sharing would no doubt serve U.S. core interests in the country. These are ambitious goals, but not unreasonable ones. The first step is to make sure that Washington's December review is not turned into a bean-counting exercise that ratifies business as usual. A serious review will at least force the Obama administration to weigh the costs and risks of a new strategy against the failure of the present approach. Even better, it will encourage a policy that charts a new course -- one designed to turn the tide of Afghan politics in a direction that encourages the U.S. and Afghan governments to work more productively on accomplishing their shared mission.

Try-or-die for a new strategy – grassroots efforts are key
Castonguay 10 (David Castonguay, former financial analyst in China, contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, at the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords)

Engaging local groups made up of tribes and warlords (or commanders) means according greater autonomy to them. Over time, they would consolidate and incorporate within the greater security apparatus of the country. These grassroots efforts need greater emphasis — through intelligence on tribal politics, Afghan government reconciliation initiatives, and U.S. military engagement and empowerment of tribes and local leaders — because Afghanistan is a decentralized country. The most important and irreducible political unit is the tribe, at least in the Pashtun lands. Implementing a central government with western apparatus of control is akin to social engineering, bypassing the native political workings of the environment. A centralized country has certain advantages. But going too fast with centralization (and dictating to someone else how fast they should go) risks implementing structures that are too weak to survive. Currently, government agents lack legitimacy in the eyes of the locals, therefore giving rise to repeated accusations of corruption and injustices that erodes their capacity to operate and empowers the anti-Afghan forces. This lack of legitimacy and the weakness of the central government have created anarchy that has increasingly defined the country since 2002. In a country where the internal politics look more like relations between states — rather than the normal relations inside a country in which the state has the monopoly on violence — self-determination is all the more important. It's also conducive to a long-term cooling down of the violence through a process of balancing power and negotiating relationships at the national level. The Virtues of Decentralization Yet there are many observers who see tribal politics, warlords and militias as a serious threat to the central government. Seth Jones clearly states “the U.S. assistance to warlords weakened the central government” in the aftermath of 2001. He and others believe that this kind of business is the principal reason why governance in the country has been so poor and the insurgency so strong. This viewpoint has been predominant amongst western deciders and intellectuals. In fact, it’s the other way around: The poor governance and the resulting insurgency have stemmed from attempts to rule the country from the center in the image of modern states. The U.S. assistance to warlords was always as a last resort, done in an ad hoc fashion, and there was never any follow up to get the warlords in line with the central government. Instead, there is evidence that grassroots efforts, when properly supported, have a greater chance of success.

COIN pushes radicals into Pakistan and destabilizes it – only small footprint and warlords solve.
Washington 9 (George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Cites Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html)

Last year, Bacevich wrote in an article in Newsweek: Meanwhile, the chief effect of allied military oper Meanwhile, the chief effect of allied military operations there so far has been not to defeat the radical Islamists but to push them across the Pakistani border. As a result, efforts to stabilize Afghanistan are contributing to the destabilization of Pakistan, with potentially devastating implications. September's bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad suggests that the extremists are growing emboldened. Today and for the foreseeable future, no country poses a greater potential threat to U.S. national security than does Pakistan. To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake. All this means that the proper U.S. priority for Afghanistan should be not to try harder but to change course. The war in Afghanistan (like the Iraq War) won't be won militarily. It can be settled—however imperfectly—only through politics. The new U.S. president needs to realize that America's real political objective in Afghanistan is actually quite modest: to ensure that terrorist groups like Al Qaeda can't use it as a safe haven for launching attacks against the West. Accomplishing that won't require creating a modern, cohesive nation-state. U.S. officials tend to assume that power in Afghanistan ought to be exercised from Kabul. Yet the real influence in Afghanistan has traditionally rested with tribal leaders and warlords. Rather than challenge that tradition, Washington should work with it. Offered the right incentives, warlords can accomplish U.S. objectives more effectively and more cheaply than Western combat battalions. The basis of U.S. strategy in Afghanistan should therefore become decentralization and outsourcing, offering cash and other emoluments to local leaders who will collaborate with the United States in excluding terrorists from their territory. This doesn't mean Washington should blindly trust that warlords will become America's loyal partners. U.S. intelligence agencies should continue to watch Afghanistan closely, and the Pentagon should crush any jihadist activities that local powers fail to stop themselves. As with the Israelis in Gaza, periodic airstrikes may well be required to pre-empt brewing plots before they mature. Were U.S. resources unlimited and U.S. interests in Afghanistan more important, upping the ante with additional combat forces might make sense. But U.S. power — especially military power — is quite limited these days, and U.S. priorities lie elsewhere. Rather than committing more troops, therefore, the new president should withdraw them while devising a more realistic — and more affordable — strategy for Afghanistan In other words, America's war strategy is increasing instability in Pakistan. Pakistan has nuclear weapons. So the surge could very well decrease not only American national security but the security of the entire world.

That collapses Pakistan
Akhtar 10 (Shameem Akhtar, professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university 1/26/10, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#)

If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside Pakistan, it is a civil war because its origins stem from the US, NATO occupation of neighboring Afghanistan. The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination. It is inaccurate to say that the US invaded Afghanistan because of the 9/11 attacks by Al-Qaeda. Former BBC correspondent George Arney reported on September 18, 2001, that Niaz Naik, the former Pakistani foreign secretary, had told him that he was informed by US officials at a UN-sponsored international contact group on Afghanistan in Berlin during July that year that unless Osama bin Laden were handed over swiftly, America would take military action to kill or capture both Bin Laden and Mullah Omar. The wider objective, however, was to topple the Taliban regime and install a transitional government under King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The invasion was to take place in mid-October 2001. Mr. Naik went on to say that he doubted that the US would have abandoned its plan to invade Afghanistan even if Osama were handed over by the Taliban. Arney's story is corroborated by the Guardian correspondent David Leigh in his report published on September 26, 2001, in which he revealed that the Taliban had received specific warning by the US through secret diplomacy in Berlin in July that the Bush Administration would topple the entire regime militarily unless Osama is extradited to the US. This was part of the larger design of US military, industrial complex to bring about regime change in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran. As the US needed bases in Pakistan to accomplish its pre-planned invasion of Afghanistan, the Bush Administration sought to use Islamabad as a cat's paw to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. Fortunately for President Bush, a usurper ruled there, devoid of all legitimacy, legal and moral, and he readily and willingly succumbed to US pressure and made a U-turn by severing all links with the Taliban. He even joined the war against Afghanistan instead of using his leverage with the Taliban to exhaust all means of peaceful settlement of the dispute. The entire region, including Pakistan, was declared a war zone by the US military command, and the flights of all passenger planes were prohibited over a certain altitude, while no merchant ships could enter the harbors of Pakistan, thus bringing maritime trade (which comprises approximately 95 percent of Pakistan's import-export trade) to a standstill. It is no wonder that Pakistan suffered a loss of 34 billion dollars because of its involvement in the Afghan war. America's War As one can see, it was America's war that was imposed upon Pakistan. Whether Pakistan could have avoided the war is a matter of controversy among politicians and political observers. But the war has fuelled insurgency in Pakistan's hitherto peaceful tribal territory adjacent to Afghanistan. This insurgency shows no sign of abatement, as terrorist attacks on military and civilian centers in the capital and major cities of the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab continue with a vengeance, posing threat to the security of the state. In the meantime, routine predator strikes by the US in Waziristan have taken a heavy toll of civilian lives amid accusations of Islamabad's complicity in the piratical attacks on tribespeople, which prompts them to resort to retaliatory strikes on the perpetrators. Not satisfied with Pakistan's military operations in the tribal region, the US Administration has compelled Islamabad's fragile government to pull out its troops from the tense Indo-Pak border and deploy them in the restive tribal belt along the Pak-Afghan border. Now Pakistan faces existential threat from the Taliban and not India, a perception which the country's military leadership is not prepared to share, given the unresolved disputes with New Delhi, which triggered four wars during the last 62 years. At the same time, speculation (not entirely unfounded) is rife about the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the former Blackwater (now christened Xe Services) in murder, mayhem, and gunrunning as evidenced by the armed Americans who drive consulate vehicles through cities and, when intercepted, refuse to disclose their identity. It is here that one recalls with dismay the role of General Stanley McChrystal, who until last year headed the Joint Special Operations Command, which runs drone attacks and targeted assassinations with the assistance of the operatives of the former Blackwater. This was revealed by Jeremy Scahill's investigative report published in the US weekly the Nation. That may, perhaps, solve the mystery surrounding a series of assassinations of ulama belonging to various Islamic movements. The sinister motive behind such acts of terror is to incite sectarian violence in Pakistan and lay the blame at the doors of religious extremists. Similar death squads were organized by the CIA in El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua to carry out political assassinations of nationalists who were opposed to US intervention. At the time, the Sandinista government of Nicaragua complained to the International Court of Justice about the mining of Nicaraguan ports, the violation of the country's airspace, the killing and kidnapping of individuals on the Nicaraguan territory, and the threat or use of force by the US. The court in its decision in June 1986 held that the US was in breach of the customary rules of international law and international humanitarian law. The above case is titled the "Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua." The precedent set by this case may be invoked by Pakistan to prevent the US drone attacks on its territory. Once the piratical attacks of the US have stopped, the irritant in the tribal insurgency would have gone, paving the way for pacification of the conflict. If this were Pakistan's war, the government would have exercised its own judgment in dealing with the militants at home, either by conciliation or by resort to force. But Islamabad's so-called operation against militants is subordinated to US military designs in the region, aimed at the encirclement of the People's Republic of China and the control of the transit of gas pipelines from Central Asia to South Asia. It is not aimless that China expressed its concern over the concentration of US, NATO troops in the region. India fits in the American scheme of things, hence the US-India nuclear deal. Pakistan's National Interest In this emerging security environment, Pakistan will have to be content with its role as a junior partner of India. Therefore, the sooner Islamabad extricates itself from the US "war on terror," the better it is for its security and independence. Doesn't Islamabad realize that its military operation against the militants would leave its border with India vulnerable to a New Delhi offensive? If Pakistan permits the US to attack the suspected training centers of militants on its territory, will it be able to prevent India from doing so? With Islamabad embroiled in internecine strife, it cannot negotiate with India from a position of strength. It may be forced to make a compromise that might be detrimental to its national interest. Pakistan's preoccupation with tribal rebellion would not permit it to deal with separatist ethnic forces in Baluchistan. Undoubtedly, this is a threat to the territorial integrity of Pakistan. After the total failure of the military operation in Baluchistan, the federal government has come round to the painful conclusion that political and not military action can bring militancy to an end. Granting general amnesty to the dissidents and engaging them in a meaningful dialogue on contentious issues is a laudable initiative. The same gesture should be made to the militants in the tribal areas. But Islamabad has adopted double standards in dealing with the Baluchistan militants and the Pashtun militants, as if there were good militants and bad ones. This discriminatory policy would intensify the Pashtun insurgency and might drive them toward even more escalation. The rulers have seen the consequences of military operations in the former East Pakistan, Baluchistan, Karachi, Sind, and FATA (federally administered tribal areas). If anything, the situation has only worsened. The surge of US troops, the expansion of war beyond the borders of Afghanistan, and the attacks on Quetta and Muridke as envisaged by Obama's new strategy would mean that US troops are at war with the people of Pakistan. Any Solution? The Obama Administration would be better advised to concentrate on its exit strategy, and to that end, it is imperative that it involve the UN in its peace-making efforts aimed at the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, because the Karzai Government has no legitimacy. To fill the vacuum, the UN peacekeeping force, made up of troops of states not involved in the Afghan war, may be deployed until a government of national unity is able to assume full responsibility. Here the US can contribute to the postwar reconstruction of Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN. The insurgency in the tribal region is the spillover effect of US military occupation of Afghanistan, but Pakistan faces a far greater threat: the threat of ethnic violence as manifested in the bloody clashes among various linguistic groups in urban and rural Sind. These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

Global nuclear war
Pitt 9 - a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21, including several children who were waiting for a ride to school. Residents of the region where the attack took place are fleeing in terror as gunfire rings out around them, and government forces have been unable to quell the violence. Two regional government officials were beheaded by militants in retaliation for the killing of other militants by government forces. As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where we have come to expect such terrible events. This, unfortunately, is a whole new ballgame. It is part of another conflict that is brewing, one which puts what is happening in Iraq and Afghanistan in deep shade, and which represents a grave and growing threat to us all. Pakistan is now trembling on the edge of violent chaos, and is doing so with nuclear weapons in its hip pocket, right in the middle of one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the world. The situation in brief: Pakistan for years has been a nation in turmoil, run by a shaky government supported by a corrupted system, dominated by a blatantly criminal security service, and threatened by a large fundamentalist Islamic population with deep ties to the Taliban in Afghanistan. All this is piled atop an ongoing standoff with neighboring India that has been the center of political gravity in the region for more than half a century. The fact that Pakistan, and India, and Russia, and China all possess nuclear weapons and share the same space means any ongoing or escalating violence over there has the real potential to crack open the very gates of Hell itself. Recently, the Taliban made a military push into the northwest Pakistani region around the Swat Valley. According to a recent Reuters report: The (Pakistani) army deployed troops in Swat in October 2007 and used artillery and gunship helicopters to reassert control. But insecurity mounted after a civilian government came to power last year and tried to reach a negotiated settlement. A peace accord fell apart in May 2008. After that, hundreds — including soldiers, militants and civilians — died in battles. Militants unleashed a reign of terror, killing and beheading politicians, singers, soldiers and opponents. They banned female education and destroyed nearly 200 girls' schools. About 1,200 people were killed since late 2007 and 250,000 to 500,000 fled, leaving the militants in virtual control. Pakistan offered on February 16 to introduce Islamic law in the Swat valley and neighboring areas in a bid to take the steam out of the insurgency. The militants announced an indefinite cease-fire after the army said it was halting operations in the region. President Asif Ali Zardari signed a regulation imposing sharia in the area last month. But the Taliban refused to give up their guns and pushed into Buner and another district adjacent to Swat, intent on spreading their rule. The United States, already embroiled in a war against Taliban forces in Afghanistan, must now face the possibility that Pakistan could collapse under the mounting threat of Taliban forces there. Military and diplomatic advisers to President Obama, uncertain how best to proceed, now face one of the great nightmare scenarios of our time. "Recent militant gains in Pakistan," reported The New York Times on Monday, "have so alarmed the White House that the national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, described the situation as 'one of the very most serious problems we face.'" "Security was deteriorating rapidly," reported The Washington Post on Monday, "particularly in the mountains along the Afghan border that harbor al-Qaeda and the Taliban, intelligence chiefs reported, and there were signs that those groups were working with indigenous extremists in Pakistan's populous Punjabi heartland. The Pakistani government was mired in political bickering. The army, still fixated on its historical adversary India, remained ill-equipped and unwilling to throw its full weight into the counterinsurgency fight. But despite the threat the intelligence conveyed, Obama has only limited options for dealing with it. Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is high, and a U.S. combat presence is prohibited. The United States is fighting Pakistan-based extremists by proxy, through an army over which it has little control, in alliance with a government in which it has little confidence." It is believed Pakistan is currently in possession of between 60 and 100 nuclear weapons. Because Pakistan's stability is threatened by the wide swath of its population that shares ethnic, cultural and religious connections to the fundamentalist Islamic populace of Afghanistan, fears over what could happen to those nuclear weapons if the Pakistani government collapses are very real. "As the insurgency of the Taliban and Al Qaeda spreads in Pakistan," reported the Times last week, "senior American officials say they are increasingly concerned about new vulnerabilities for Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, including the potential for militants to snatch a weapon in transport or to insert sympathizers into laboratories or fuel-production facilities. In public, the administration has only hinted at those concerns, repeating the formulation that the Bush administration used: that it has faith in the Pakistani Army. But that cooperation, according to officials who would not speak for attribution because of the sensitivity surrounding the exchanges between Washington and Islamabad, has been sharply limited when the subject has turned to the vulnerabilities in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure." "The prospect of turmoil in Pakistan sends shivers up the spines of those U.S. officials charged with keeping tabs on foreign nuclear weapons," reported Time Magazine last month. "Pakistan is thought to possess about 100 — the U.S. isn't sure of the total, and may not know where all of them are. Still, if Pakistan collapses, the U.S. military is primed to enter the country and secure as many of those weapons as it can, according to U.S. officials. Pakistani officials insist their personnel safeguards are stringent, but a sleeper cell could cause big trouble, U.S. officials say." In other words, a shaky Pakistan spells trouble for everyone, especially if America loses the footrace to secure those weapons in the event of the worst-case scenario. If Pakistani militants ever succeed in toppling the government, several very dangerous events could happen at once. Nuclear-armed India could be galvanized into military action of some kind, as could nuclear-armed China or nuclear-armed Russia. If the Pakistani government does fall, and all those Pakistani nukes are not immediately accounted for and secured, the specter (or reality) of loose nukes falling into the hands of terrorist organizations could place the entire world on a collision course with unimaginable disaster. We have all been paying a great deal of attention to Iraq and Afghanistan, and rightly so. The developing situation in Pakistan, however, needs to be placed immediately on the front burner. The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.

Pakistan is the biggest risk for nuclear theft
Borger 10 (Julian-, April 12, The Guardian, “Pakistan nuclear weapons at risk of theft by terrorists, US study warns”,
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/apr/12/pakistan-nuclear-weapons-security-fears; Jacob)

Pakistan yesterday came under increased pressure over its nuclear arsenal when a Harvard study warned of "a very real possibility" that its warheads could be stolen by terrorists. The rising concern about poorly-guarded nuclear weapons and material was the subject of an extraordinary two-day summit which began in Washington yesterday. Last night, Ukraine became the latest country to volunteer to give up its stores of highly enriched uranium (HEU), which can be used in weapons, and switch its research reactors to low-enriched uranium. There was still considerable anxiety at the Nuclear Security Summit over the safety of more than 2,000 tons more HEU and weapons-grade plutonium stored in 40 countries. There were also persistent doubts over the security of Pakistan's nuclear weapons. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, assured Barack Obama the country has an "appropriate safeguard" for its arsenal, understood to consist of 70-90 nuclear weapons. However, a report by Harvard University's Belfer Centre for Science and International Affairs, titled Securing the Bomb 2010, said Pakistan's stockpile "faces a greater threat from Islamic extremists seeking nuclear weapons than any other nuclear stockpile on earth". Experts said the danger was growing because of the arms race between Pakistan and India. The Institute for Science and International Security has reported that Pakistan's second nuclear reactor, built to produce plutonium for weapons, shows signs of starting operations, and a third is under construction. At their White House meeting on Sunday, Obama pressed Gilani to end Pakistan's opposition to an international treaty that would ban the production of new fissile material for nuclear warheads, plutonium and highly enriched uranium (HEU), but the Pakistani leader showed no signs of bowing to the pressure, US officials said. Pakistan's insistence that India reduces its stockpile first prevented talks on the fissile material cutoff treaty from getting under way in Geneva last year. Yesterday, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, added to the pressure on Pakistan by calling for talks at the multilateral conference on disarmament to start, warning that "nuclear terrorism is one of the greatest threats we face today". Both the US and Britain have declared themselves satisfied with Pakistan's security measures for its nuclear weapons, despite the rise of the Pakistani Taliban and other extremist groups. But yesterday's Harvard report said there were serious grounds for concern. "Despite extensive security measures, there is a very real possibility that sympathetic insiders might carry out or assist in a nuclear theft, or that a sophisticated outsider attack (possibly with insider help) could overwhelm the defences," the report said.

And, Taliban spillover causes Central Asia conflict
Goble 10 (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65)
Because NATO has chosen to supply its forces in Afghanistan via Central Asia and because its battles against the Taliban in the northern part of that country have led to a dramatic increase in the number of Tajiks and Uzbeks in that radical group, the conflict in Afghanistan is spreading into portions of Central Asia itself. Indeed, Moscow analyst Aleksandr Shustov argues in an essay posted online today, Central Asia now faces “the threat of Afghanization,” something he implies both the leaders of the countries in that region and of Russia should take into consideration when deciding how much to support the US-led effort south of the former Soviet border. Shustov says that “the increase in the transportation and communication role of the Central Asian republics for the US and NATO is being accompanied by a threat to their military and political stability,” a trend exacerbated by recent changes in the composition of the Taliban itself. In the course of the spring and fall of the past year, he continues, a wave of armed actions and clashes, connected by analysts with the penetration of illegal armed formations from Afghanistan and Pakistan, has passed through the three republics of ‘the conflict triangle’ of Central Asia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.” “The majority of these incidents, Shustov says, “took place on the territory of the most explosive region of Central Asia – the Fergana Valley,” which is the most densely populated of that area and which suffers from high rates of unemployment and increasing problems with the supply of water and other government services. Shustov provides a detailed chronology of these attacks, linking them not only to the desire of the Taliban to undermine governments who are providing assistance to its opponents but also to an increase in the number of clashes between the Taliban and NATO forces in the northern portion of Afghanistan. Historically, the Moscow commentator says, the Taliban have been primarily a Pushtun organization, but in the north, a region populated largely by Tajiks and Uzbeks, the radical Islamist group has sought to recruit from these two groups whose co-nationals form the titular people of two of the most important Central Asian countries. In the Kunduz province, Shustov continues, “approximately 20 percent of the Taliban formations already consist of Tajiks and Uzbeks,” at least some of whom are engaged in crossborder activities such as drug trafficking and who have an interest in undermining the Central Asian states that they believe are helping the opponents of the Taliban. Moreover, as NATO military operations in northern Afghanistan have increased, there has been a rising tide of refugees into the neighboring countries of Central Asia, people who “under the conditions of growing military-political instability fear for their lives” and often support radical groups. Many politicians and experts are concerned that Tajikistan, which in comparison with neighboring Uzbekistan has extremely limited military possibilities also may be drawn into the Afghan conflict as a result.” If that happens, Shustov argues, then “inevitably” Russia will be drawn in as well.

Treaty obligations make it the most probable scenario for nuclear escalation
Blank 2k (Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, “U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia”, www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf)

Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic involvement seeks, inter alia, to demonstrate the U.S. ability to project military power even into this region or for that matter, into Ukraine where NATO recently held exercises that clearly originated as an anti-Russian scenario. Secretary of Defense William Cohen has discussed strengthening U.S.-Azerbaijani military cooperation and even training the Azerbaijani army, certainly alarming Armenia and Russia. 69 And Washington is also training Georgia’s new Coast Guard. 70 However, Washington’s well-known ambivalence about committing force to Third World ethnopolitical conflicts suggests that U.S. military power will not be easily committed to saving its economic investment. But this ambivalence about committing forces and the dangerous situation, where Turkey is allied to Azerbaijan and Armenia is bound to Russia, create the potential for wider and more protracted regional conflicts among local forces. In that connection, Azerbaijan and Georgia’s growing efforts to secure NATO’s lasting involvement in the region, coupled with Russia’s determination to exclude other rivals, foster a polarization along very traditional lines. 71 In 1993 Moscow even threatened World War III to deter Turkish intervention on behalf of Azerbaijan. Yet the new Russo-Armenian Treaty and Azeri-Turkish treaty suggest that Russia and Turkey could be dragged into a confrontation to rescue their allies from defeat. 72 Thus many of the conditions for conventional war or protracted ethnic conflict in which third parties intervene are present in the Transcaucasus. For example, many Third World conflicts generated by local structural factors have a great potential for unintended escalation. Big powers often feel obliged to rescue their lesser proteges and proxies. One or another big power may fail to grasp the other side’s stakes since interests here are not as clear as in Europe. Hence commitments involving the use of nuclear weapons to prevent a client’s defeat are not as well established or apparent. Clarity about the nature of the threat could prevent the kind of rapid and almost uncontrolled escalation we saw in 1993 when Turkish noises about intervening on behalf of Azerbaijan led Russian leaders to threaten a nuclear war in that case. 73 Precisely because Turkey is a NATO ally, Russian nuclear threats could trigger a potential nuclear blow (not a small possibility given the erratic nature of Russia’s declared nuclear strategies). The real threat of a Russian nuclear strike against Turkey to defend Moscow’s interests and forces in the Transcaucasus makes the danger of major war there higher than almost everywhere else. As Richard Betts has observed, The greatest danger lies in areas where (1) the potential for serious instability is high; (2) both superpowers perceive vital interests; (3) neither recognizes that the other’s perceived interest or commitment is as great as its own; (4) both have the capability to inject conventional forces; and, (5) neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation.

A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism.
Castonguay 10 (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords)

Finally, there is the experience of Tajikistan recently documented in Foreign Affairs. With a minimal budget, international efforts were able to stabilize the country in the 1990s by allowing local warlords to retain more autonomy. Instead of less effective governance, warlords were able to generate more of it because they had genuine control over their area. On the national level, an essential balance of power was struck, borders were controlled and the country eventually moved on: Rather than forcing free and fair elections, throwing out warlords, and flooding the country with foreign peacekeepers, the intervening parties opted for a more limited and realistic set of goals. They brokered deals across political factions, tolerated warlords where necessary, and kept the number of outside peacekeeping troops to a minimum. The result has been the emergence of a relatively stable balance of power inside the country, the dissuasion of former combatants from renewed hostilities, and the opportunity for state building to develop organically. The Tajik case suggests that in trying to rebuild a failed state, less may be more. But giving a greater role to the tribes and the militias isn't a new idea. Just over a year ago, an American-backed plan experimented with the arming of a militia in Wardak province. The Obama plan itself talks about the need for U.S. troops to work with local political units and their militias. Yet it's a matter of what elements are emphasized and whether the U.S. military can change its culture. Even the intelligence community has severe shortcomings in the knowledge department necessary to fight a successful counterinsurgency. In a scathing report, Flynn said the intelligence community was “ignorant of local economics and landowners, hazy about who the powerbrokers are and how they might be influenced...and disengaged from people in the best position to find answers.” Adding more troops is possibly counterproductive in the long run, because it only postpones the inevitable playing out of the situation after the Americans are gone. In the end, the solution to Afghanistan will have to come from Afghans. The sooner tribes are engaged and the the sooner American and ISAF deciders stop seeing Afghanistan through their own political institutions, the less painful it will be. If this doesn’t happen, then the fledgling ANF is likely to crumble rapidly after the foreign forces are gone. And that will only extend the U.S. mission beyond what the American public, the Afghan population, and even the U.S. military itself can tolerate.

Decentralization is key to stability.
Mukhopadhyay 9 (Dipali Mukhopadhyay – doctoral candidate at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and a Jennings Randolph Dissertation Scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace. She has received doctoral fellowships from Harvard Law School and the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program at the U.S. Department of Education. Undergraduate studies at Yale in the Political Science Department, and former junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment’s Nonproliferation Program – August, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Middle East Program. Number 101 http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/warlords_as_bureaucrats.pdf)

Counterterrorism and state building coexist in Afghanistan as they never did in the world before September 11, 2001. In this sense, the Afghan project represents the vanguard of future interventions where extremism is taken on in historically weak states. The convergence of these two agendas in Afghanistan has led to the reinvigoration of armed non-state actors who initially enabled a military path to root out the Taliban but then came to represent obstacles to strong, centralized statehood. Evidence from the last several years, however, suggests that a few “warlords” have leveraged their informal power to contribute to a governing system that, while imperfect, may represent what international development agencies have come to call “good enough governance.” A longer view acknowledges that the history of Afghan statehood may have involved formal centralization, even brief periods of strength, but the reach of comprehensive and effective formal institutions to the periphery has no precedent. Expecting such an outcome in a short time frame, in the face of limited resources and competing agendas within a very tough neighborhood, has always been unrealistic. Instead, warlord governors like Atta Mohammed Noor and Gul Agha Sherzai employ informal power, rules, and networks to preserve control over their respective provinces. Informalized politics of this kind does not yield a technocratic, rule-based approach to governance. In fact, it inflicts a number of costs on the population and the state, from inefficiency to corruption and human rights abuse. Warlord governors like Atta Mohammed Noor and Gul Agha Sherzai as well as warlord parliamentarians, police chiefs, and party leaders across the country represent the cost of conducting state building as part of a larger strategy to tackle terrorism and insurgency. Democracy may be the ultimate elixir to extremism, but current instruments of counterterrorism and counterinsurgency are unlikely to enable democratic governance. In Afghanistan and elsewhere, international efforts often enable de facto hybrid governance despite promoting a de jure model of statehood based on strong formal institutional growth. Claims to the contrary create unrealistic expectations and subsequent disappointment and disillusionment on the part of ordinary Afghans and Western citizens alike, as perfection becomes the enemy of “good enough.” The absence of democratic governance does not, however, mean the absence of governance altogether. On the contrary, warlord governors like Atta and Sherzai have delivered significant governing dividends at the provincial level. A “good enough” governor, who can demonstrate success in 6counternarcotics, security, and economic and infrastructural development, becomes a valuable asset in the absence of unlimited resources, troops, and political will. Acknowledgment of hybrid governance need not mean the abandonment of formal institutional capacity building on the part of international, intervening organizations. Rather, they must adopt more realistic expectations of formal institutions.

A focused counterterror mission creates a smooth transition.
Long 10 (Austin Long - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, Spring, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” Foreign Policy Research Institute)

This insoluble problem is why the counterterrorism option is important. If even a costly effort in Afghanistan cannot fully achieve the goal against al Qaeda, then it is crucial to determine whether a less costly effort can achieve a similar effect by keeping Afghanistan inhospitable to al Qaeda. This would be a clear and cost-effective alignment of resources with goals, the essence of strategy. Determining the viability of the counterterrorism option requires detailing what it might look like. Most discussion of the counterterrorism option has been vague. Riedel and O’Hanlon sum it up as ‘‘a few U.S. special forces teams, modern intelligence fusion centers, cruise-missile-carrying ships and unmanned aerial vehicles...’’ But there has been little effort to put flesh on this skeleton in terms of numbers and locations of U.S. troops. The following section presents a possible counterterrorism force posture. Possible Counterterrorism Force Posture First, this posture would require maintaining bases in Afghanistan. Three airfields (see map below) would be sufficient: Bagram (about 50 kilometers north of Kabul), Jalalabad (in eastern Afghanistan) and Kandahar (in southern Afghanistan). This would enable forces to collect intelligence and rapidly target al Qaeda in the Pashtun regions where its allies would hold sway. In terms of special operations forces, this posture would rely on two squadrons of so-called ‘‘Tier 1’’ operators, one at Jalabad Air Field (JAF) and one at Kandahar Air Field (KAF). These would be drawn from classified U.S. special mission units (SMUs) attached to Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), U.S. Army Special Forces’ Combatant Commanders in Extremis Forces (CIFs), and allied units such as the British Special Air Service (SAS) or Canada’s Joint Task Force 2 (JTF2).9 In addition, the posture would require a battalion equivalent of U.S. Army Rangers, U.S. Navy SEALs, U.S. Marine Special Operations Companies (MSOCs), British Special Forces Support Group, or some mix, with basically a company with each Tier 1 squadron or equivalent and one in reserve at Bagram.10 These forces would work together as task forces, with the Tier 1 operators being tasked with executing direct action missions to kill or capture al Qaeda targets while the other units would serve as security and support for these missions. According to Sean Naylor’s reporting, these direct action task forces are structured like the regional task forces in Iraq in 2006 that were tasked to hunt al Qaeda in Iraq. Naylor also reports similar units are already in place in Afghanistan.11 In addition to these ground forces, a battalion task force from the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (SOAR) would be used to provide helicopter transport, reconnaissance, and fire support for the task forces. The battalion would bring some mix of MH-47 heavy lift helicopters and MH60 medium lift helicopters, including the MH-60L gunship.12 The helicopters have a combat radius of at least 300 kilometers (km), giving the task forces operational reach to almost any part of the Pashtun region.13 This battalion could be supplemented with additional aviation assets from other units, such as CV-22 tilt rotor aircraft from the Air Force’s 8th Special Operations Squadron or AH-64 attack helicopters from any one of several Army aviation units.14 The JAF based task force would likely need to operate principally in the heartland of the Haqqani network (Khost, Paktia, and Paktika provinces) as this would be where al Qaeda’s principal ally in the east could best protect its members (who are not generally Pashtun). For similar reasons, the KAF based task force would principally operate against targets in Kandahar, the home of the Quetta Shura Taliban, and some of the surrounding provinces such as Helmand and Oruzgan. Both task forces would nonetheless be capable of acting against targets elsewhere in the Pashtun regions. In addition to these two task forces, a counterterrorism option would retain the three Army Special Forces battalions and other elements that appear to be assigned to Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force Afghanistan (CJSOTF-A).15 This provides roughly 54 Special Forces Operational Detachment Alphas (ODAs), the basic unit of Army Special Forces. While the task forces would focus purely on direct action, ODAs would partner with local forces to collect intelligence and secure specific areas.16 Additionally, these ODAs would provide crucial support to critical Afghan allies and reassure them that the United States is not going to entirely abandon them. CJSOTF-A should, in addition, have a dedicated helicopter battalion for its own lift. This reassurance and support of local allies is a crucial and underappreciated part of a counterterrorism option, though such support to local allies could also be part of a counterinsurgency campaign. Indeed, the recently launched Community Defense Initiative (CDI) seeks to use Special Forces troops to build effective tribal militias to fight the Taliban and other militants.17 With 54 ODAs, the United States could potentially support local allies in roughly 50 Afghan districts, assuming one ODA per district with a few deployed in other roles.18 Logistics might prevent this upper limit from being reached but at a minimum several dozen districts could be supported by CJSOTF-A’s ODAs. These local allies would in many cases be from non-Pashtun groups (Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras), which would limit their ability to be effective in Pashtun areas but would likely include at least a few other tribes that see more benefit working with the Afghan government and the United States than against them. The non-Pashtun groups were the critical allies of the United States in 2001 and remain staunchly against the Taliban and other militants. The Tajiks of the Panjshir Valley, for example, are probably even more anti-Taliban than the United States and have made the province one of the most secure in the country.19 With U.S. support, these groups will be able to prevent the expansion of militants outside Pashtun areas. Local allies in Pashtun areas will not only help contain militants but will also enable collection of intelligence to support the task force operations. One example is the Shinwari tribe in Nangarhar province, which has never valued the Taliban. Shinwari militias are reported to be working with Special Forces in the Achin district of Nangarhar.20 The Afghan Border Police commander on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border at Spin Boldak, General Abdul Razziq, also derives substantial revenue from cross-border trade and will likely continue to fight the Taliban to maintain this revenue, making him a probable local partner.21 Another potential ally is the Alokozai tribe in the Arghandab district of Kandahar province, which has a history of resisting the Taliban.22 Supporting local allies does not mean abandoning the Afghan government any more than supporting local allies in the Awakening movement in Iraq’s Anbar province meant abandoning the Iraq government. However, it does pose risks, as local allies interests may not always align with those of the central government.23 Balancing the two will require deftness which will be discussed later. In addition to the two task forces and CJSOTF-A, a few more ‘‘enablers’’ would be required. First, this posture would need additional special operations personnel focused on intelligence collection, along with a substantial complement of intelligence community personnel to collect both human and signals intelligence.24 Second, it would require a significant complement of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) including Predators, Reapers, and other specialized types along with their support personnel, equivalent to perhaps three squadrons. Third, an AC-130 gunship squadron for air support would be needed, along with combat search and rescue teams from Air Force Special Operations Command. Clearly, ‘‘small’’ is a relative term. This special operations posture alone would be roughly five battalions of ground forces, eight aviation squadrons/ battalions, and a few odds and ends plus higher headquarters. This would be approximately 5,000 U.S. and Coalition troops.25 In addition, a conventional force component would be needed to serve as a quick reaction force, to provide security for the bases, and to protect convoys. A reasonable estimate for this force would be a brigade or regimental combat team, giving a battalion to each base with the higher headquarters at Bagram. This would add about another 3,500 troops.26 In addition, about 500 U.S. personnel would remain as advisers and liaisons to Afghan security forces, particularly the Afghan National Army where they would be attached at brigade and corps level. Additional air support besides the UAVs and AC-130s would also be needed. Two squadrons of fighter-bombers (F-15E, A-10, etc.) likely would be sufficient, adding another 2,000 personnel or so.27 Finally, this posture would require additional staff, logistics, and support personnel (medical for instance), some but not all of which could be contractors, adding another 2,000 military personnel.28 This would be a total force of about 13,000 military personnel and some supporting intelligence community personnel and contractors. This is a high-end estimate and the counterterrorism option could potentially be done with fewer troops. Some military personnel with Afghanistan experience believe this mission could be undertaken with half this number of troops but the posture described above errs on the side of caution.29 This is small compared to the current posture in Afghanistan, smaller still than the forces implied in General McChrystal’s report, and tiny compared to the peak number of forces in Iraq. On the other hand, it is vastly larger than any other counterterrorism deployment.

Contention Three – Hegemony

Unipolarity is sustainable – we’re too far ahead for anyone to catch up.
Brooks and Wohlforth 9 (Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO)

Only a few years ago, pundits were absorbed in debates about American "empire." Now, the conventional wisdom is that the world is rapidly approaching the end of the unipolar system with the United States as the sole superpower. A dispassionate look at the facts shows that this view understates U.S. power as much as recent talk of empire exaggerated it. That the United States weighs more on the traditional scales of world power than has any other state in modern history is as true now as it was when the commentator Charles Krauthammer proclaimed the advent of a "unipolar moment" in these pages nearly two decades ago. The United States continues to account for about half the world's defense spending and one-quarter of its economic output. Some of the reasons for bearishness concern public policy problems that can be fixed (expensive health care in the United States, for example), whereas many of the reasons for bullishness are more fundamental (such as the greater demographic challenges faced by the United States' potential rivals). So why has opinion shifted so quickly from visions of empire to gloomy declinism? One reason is that the United States' successes at the turn of the century led to irrational exuberance, thereby setting unreasonably high standards for measuring the superpower's performance. From 1999 to 2003, seemingly easy U. S. victories in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq led some to conclude that the United States could do what no great power in history had managed before: effortlessly defeat its adversaries. It was only a matter of time before such pie-in-the-sky benchmarks proved unattainable. Subsequent difficulties in Afghanistan and Iraq dashed illusions of omnipotence, but these upsets hardly displaced the United States as the world's leading state, and there is no reason to believe that the militaries of its putative rivals would have performed any better. The United States did not cease to be a superpower when its policies in Cuba and Vietnam failed in the 1960s; bipolarity lived on for three decades. Likewise, the United States remains the sole superpower today. Another key reason for the multipolar mania is "the rise of the rest." Impressed by the rapid economic growth of China and India, many write as if multipolarity has already returned. But such pronouncements mistake current trajectories for final outcomes--a common strategic error with deep psychological roots. The greatest concern in the Cold War, for example, came not from the Soviet Union's actually attaining parity with the United States but from the expectation that it would do so in the future. Veterans of that era recall how the launch of Sputnik in 1957 fed the perception that Soviet power was growing rapidly, leading some policymakers and analysts to start acting as if the Soviet Union were already as powerful as the United States. A state that is rising should not be confused with one that has risen, just as a state that is declining should not be written off as having already declined. China is generally seen as the country best positioned to emerge as a superpower challenger to the United States. Yet depending on how one measures GDP, China's economy is between 20 percent and 43 percent the size of the United States'. More dramatic is the difference in GDP per capita, for which all measures show China's as being less than 10 percent of the United States'. Absent a 1930s-style depression that spares potential U.S. rivals, the United States will not be replaced as the sole superpower for a very long time. Real multipolarity--an international system of three or more evenly matched powers--is nowhere on the horizon. Relative power between states shifts slowly. This tendency to conflate trends with outcomes is often driven by the examination in isolation of certain components of state power. If the habit during the Cold War was to focus on military power, the recent trend has been to single out economic output. No declinist tract is complete without a passage noting that although the United States may remain a military superpower, economic multipolarity is, or soon will be, the order of the day. Much as highlighting the Soviet Union's military power meant overlooking the country's economic and technological feet of clay, examining only economic output means putting on blinders. In 1991, Japan's economy was two-thirds the size of the United States', which, according to the current popular metric, would mean that with the Soviet Union's demise, the world shifted from bipolarity to, well, bipolarity. Such a partial assessment of power will produce no more accurate an analysis today. Nor will giving in to apprehension about the growing importance of nonstate actors. The National Intelligence Council's report Global Trends 2025 grabbed headlines by forecasting the coming multipolarity, anticipating a power shift as much to nonstate actors as to fast-growing countries. But nonstate actors are nothing new--compare the scale and scope of today's pirates off the Somali coast with those of their eighteenth-century predecessors or the political power of today's multinational corporations with that of such behemoths as the British East India Company--and projections of their rise may well be as much hype as reflections of reality. And even if the power of nonstate actors is rising, this should only increase the incentives for interstate cooperation; nonstate threats do not affect just the United States. Most nonstate actors' behavior, moreover, still revolves around influencing the decisions of states. Nongovernmental organizations typically focus on trying to get states to change their policies, and the same is true of most terrorists.

But, the Iraq War created backlash against a hegemonic grand strategy – remaining in Afghanistan prolongs the perception of the “long war.”
Kitfield 9 (James Kitfield, In 2008 the Military Reporters and Editors Association awarded Kitfield its top prize for excellence in overseas reporting for his coverage of the "surge" in Iraq the previous year, an award he also won in 2004 for his first-hand coverage of the invasion of Iraq. His reporting from Iraq in 2008 also garnered honorable mention in the Edgar A. Poe Awards given by the White House Correspondents Association for coverage of news of national significance, In 2002 Kitfield received the Stewart Alsop Media Excellence Award, sponsored by the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, for his coverage of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and follow-on events. Each year the Alsop Award recognizes a journalist who has made "an exceptional contribution to balanced and informed coverage on national security and intelligence-related issues." Kitfield also received the 2000 Edwin Hood Award for Diplomatic Correspondence given annually by the National Press Club to recognize excellence in reporting on diplomatic and foreign policy issues. Citing Kitfield's insightful writing on trans-Atlantic issues, the German Marshall Fund awarded him a Peter R. Weitz Prize and a $5,000 check in 2001 for excellence in reporting on European affairs, In 1995, Kitfield was the recipient of the Gerald R. Ford Award for Distinguished Reporting on National Defense. The $5,000 award recognizes "journalists whose standards for accuracy and insight help foster a better understanding of national defense issues." As the 1990 recipient of the Ford Award for his coverage of Desert Shield, Kitfield is the only two-time winner in the award's history. In 1987, Kitfield won the Jesse H. Neal Award for Excellence in Reporting from the Association of Business Publishers for an article on the vulnerability of the Navy's surface warships that preceded the tragic attack on the USS Stark by an Iraqi aircraft.National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm)

As the administration reconsiders its strategy for Afghanistan, everyone understands that the United States stands at an important crossroads in the "long war" against violent Islamic extremism. And Obama's decisions are framed -- and boxed in -- by two pivotal moves made by his predecessor: President Bush's 2003 decision to invade Iraq, thus his failing to finish the job against Al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan; and his 2007 decision to "surge" troops in Iraq to stave off almost certain defeat there. The Iraq war leaves Obama with exhausted troops, not to mention a war-weary public and fewer political and economic resources with which to fight in Afghanistan. And the Iraq surge -- despite the fact that the extra troops were but one ingredient in the strategy -- gives the military and Obama's Republican opponents a precedent that he can ignore only at the risk of being called weak. "Clearly the decision on what to do in Afghanistan will be the most difficult Obama has yet to make, and I suspect the most difficult of his presidency, for the simple reason that there are no good options," said Paul Pillar, a former career CIA analyst and a counter-terrorism expert now at Georgetown University. In its internal deliberations, Pillar suspects, the administration is discovering that it's far easier to point out the weaknesses in someone else's strategy for Afghanistan than to propose a successful plan of its own. "I'm encouraged that the administration is exploring a lot of variables in painstaking detail, however, and questioning some basic assumptions about the war in Afghanistan," he said. Pillar argues that the core issue is not whether McChrystal's counterinsurgency strategy is appropriate to the mission of defeating Al Qaeda and stabilizing Afghanistan. "Rather, it's whether we as a nation have the resources and stamina to continue a war that at eight years and counting has already lasted longer than ground combat in Vietnam. Polls suggest that Americans are fast losing patience with this war." War fatigue has cast a long shadow over the administration's deliberations on Afghanistan, raising fears that events in an unpopular war could eclipse the considerable promise of Obama's presidency. The controversy over McChrystal's public comments and the leaking of his classified assessment to the media; the sharp-elbowed jockeying in Congress between opponents and supporters of the proposed surge in troops; and the alarmed statements by officials in the region and by NATO allies over the administration's perceived waffling all point to the high stakes involved. Fairly or not, and regardless of whether the commander-in-chief chooses to pull back, stand pat, or increase forces, Afghanistan is about to become Obama's war. "All presidents would like to focus on their domestic agenda, and they all learn that whether or not you care about foreign policy, it cares about you," said Peter Feaver, who served on Bush's National Security Council staff during the Iraq surge in 2007. "Whatever direction the president decides to go now, Obama is going to own Afghanistan. And that means it's going to start crowding out other parts of his agenda."

That causes isolationist backsliding – we will abandon foreign policy leadership
Kretkowski 10 (Paul, assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.htm)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead. Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others). What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion. What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission. The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences. Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.) But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence. I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily. "Winning" in Afghanistan The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever. Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere. The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war. I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history. This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in. Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce). Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's). Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money. At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake. The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia) What a CT Focus Means Focusing on a counterterror-only mission means admitting that Afghanistan and Iraq—and Yemen and Iran—are not, and will not likely become, threats to the U.S. that require tens of thousands of troops. Individuals from those countries (as well as their alleged British, Nigerian or Virginian lackeys) may be threats, but threats that can mostly be handled by a CT strategy, intensified border protection, and other measures. The countries themselves will remain militarily negligible outside their own neighborhood. A CT strategy would mean keeping a few heavily fortified bases in Afghanistan and Iraq to maintain the "B-52 effect" of being able to suppress large-scale fighting via airpower, while pulling all our other troops out. We would then keep up Predator decapitation strikes and occasional bombing of insurgent hideouts, while providing air support for the Afghan National Army and police. We would also do what we could—and no more—to strengthen the Kabul and Islamabad governments. Sooner or later that will mean standing back while an unsavory strongman takes charge in one or both countries—someone who can maintain stability if not a Western-style democracy, although we can certainly pressure them to try. Benefits of a CT Focus Pulling the bulk of U.S. troops from the two active wars means military spending drops sharply, freeing up greatly needed funds for other uses: to stimulate the domestic economy, to aid in healthcare reform, or simply to reduce the need to issue more debt and thus begin paying down our current tab. (As an added benefit, China and others who want to extract wealth from a less-secure Afghanistan must then foot their own security bill.) Perhaps we become less hated in Afghanistan and Iraq, perhaps not, but we get out of the nation-building business that President Bush used to deride and can use our political, economic and military assets elsewhere. At that point we begin to rebuild those all-important reserves without which a great nation cannot aid allies, warn off adversaries, and sway those in the middle. Costs of a CT Focus A pure CT focus has substantial drawbacks, particularly for those who favor a foreign policy oriented toward human rights. The U.S. will move from the current twin focus on winning civilian hearts and minds while killing insurgent leaders toward a pure assassination model—not a morally pleasing choice. Lots of Afghans who have worked with the U.S. will flee or else die when their areas revert to warlord or Taliban control. Women's rights will vanish almost completely, almost overnight. Afghan opium will continue to utterly dominate world markets. Only the B-52 Effect will prevent a resumption of frank civil war along ethnic lines, but myriad "incidents" will occur at the cost of thousands of lives. Brain drain will resume and quickly accelerate. And the U.S. will still spend billions per year to maintain bases in and supply lines to Afghanistan, and to prop up the Islamabad government and underwrite its occasional punitive expeditions along the Afghan border. (These costs will still be far less than the expense of a full-bore COIN mission, however.) I believe enduring these stomach-churning tradeoffs is worthwhile because making them enables the U.S. to rebuild its reserves in every area: political, financial, and yes, moral, since it can then use its clout to be a broader guarantor of human rights worldwide than it can by continuing to bleed itself in Afghanistan and Mesopotamia. To paraphrase the line from Kaplan's Warrior Politics that changed my mind: At the end of the day, America's power to do good is strongest when American hard power is both abundant and largely held in reserve. I believe the U.S. is of greatest benefit to the world's oppressed overall when it serves as a beacon to the idealists and a threat to dictators and criminals—qualities that the U.S. will not possess as long as it is tied down by one or more land wars in Asia.

Withdrawal restores domestic consensus to our foreign policy.
Kupchan and Trubowitz 10 (Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “The Illusion of Liberal Internationalism’s Revival” in International Security, Volume 35, Number 1, Summer, pp. 95-109, MUSE)

A POLARIZED PUBLIC Congress may be leading the way when it comes to partisanship, but the public is not far behind. On key foreign policy issues, opinion surveys reveal a wide gap between Democrats and Republicans. A Gallup poll conducted in February 2010 revealed that 53 percent of Democrats but only 16 percent of Republicans believed that the United States is spending too much on national defense.42 A separate Gallup poll, also from February 2010, indicated that Democrats (45 percent) were twice as likely as Republicans (22 percent) to rate the United Nations positively.43 Partisanship is glaringly apparent in the public's views of Obama's foreign policy. In February 2010, public approval of Obama's handling of foreign policy stood at 78 percent for Democrats but only 26 percent for Republicans.44 The same Gallup poll revealed that the partisan gap on approval of Obama's policies toward terrorism, Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran averaged some 37 percentage points. A Pew poll from December 2009 showed that among Republicans, 72 percent believed that Obama is "not tough enough" in his conduct of foreign policy, compared to 29 percent of Democrats.45 The survey data also reveal that public enthusiasm for free trade is sensitive to downturns in the U.S. economy. In December 2006, for example, 48 percent of the public believed that free trade leads to job losses and 44 percent that it produces lower wages. In April 2008, as the financial crisis was worsening, 61 percent believed that free trade leads to job losses and 56 percent that it produces lower wages.46 These findings are particularly noteworthy in light of Chaudoin, Milner, and Tingley's claim that globalization engenders strong bi- partisan support for liberal internationalism 47 As Karl Polanyi and many after him have argued, however, electorates that feel dislocated and disadvantaged by globalization may seek to cordon themselves off from the global market- place, not deepen their attachment to it.48 The American public has second thoughts not only about free trade but also about the scope of the country's global security commitments. The Pew poll from December 2009 revealed that 49 percent of the public believed that the United States "should mind its own business"—the highest response to that question ever recorded, far surpassing the 32 percent expressing that attitude in 1972, during the height of opposition to the Vietnam War. The poll also found that 76 percent of the public think the United States should focus less on international problems and "concentrate more on our own national problems and building up our strength and prosperity here at home."49 The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan appear to be taking a toll on public support for the bur- dens of liberal internationalism. A structural change has taken place in the politics of U.S. foreign policy; the liberal internationalist consensus has eroded. As we argue in "Dead Center,” restoring domestic consensus will likely require a more selective and discriminating grand strategy—one that brings the nation’s external commitments back into line with political and economic means. It is far preferable for the United States to pursue a more modest grand strategy that enjoys domestic support than to pursue an overly ambitious statecraft that further polarizes the nation and leaves an uncertain world without the benefit of measured and steady U.S. engagement. President Obama appears to appreciate the need to restore political solvency to U.S. foreign policy. He is committed to bringing down U.S. force levels in Iraq and Afghanistan, and has been encouraging allies in Europe and elsewhere to shoulder greater burdens, while looking to diplomacy more than coercion to resolve disputes with unfriendly regimes. To be sure, Obama needs willing partners abroad, and U.S. leverage, from Kabul to Baghdad to Tehran, remains limited. But equally vexing for the White House will be managing the domestic politics of foreign policy. The United States assumed the mantle of global leadership in the 1940s and enjoyed a bipartisan consensus on foreign policy through the balance of the twentieth century. Obama now faces the unenviable challenge of conducting U.S. statecraft during an era when consensus will be as elusive at home as it is globally.

Primacy is key to global peace – the only threat to order is if we allow it to collapse.
Thayer 6 (Bradley, Professor of Security Studies at Missouri State, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak¬ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy. As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

===Proxy War Advantage - Round 4=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should transition the United States’ military presence in Afghanistan to a counter-terrorism force posture.

Contention Three – Proxy War

U.S.-led Afghan coalition causes India-Pakistan proxy war.d
Kronstadt 10 (K. Alan Kronstadt, Specialist in South Asian Affairs for the Congressional Research Service, “Pakistan: Key Current Issues and Developments,” June 1, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA524099)

Pakistan and India appear to be fighting a “shadow war” inside Afghanistan with spies and proxies.268 Islamabad accuses New Delhi of using Indian consulates in Afghanistan as bases for malevolent interference in Pakistan’s Baluchistan province, specifically by materially supporting Baloch separatist militants. The Pakistani government also accuses India of interfering in the FATA. When asked about such claims in late 2009, Secretary of State Clinton said the U.S. government had seen no supporting evidence. Yet Pakistani officials remain insistent: In October, a senior Pakistani military officer declared there was “a lot of evidence” of Indian involvement in supporting the Baloch separatist movement, and Interior Minister Malik later echoed the claim, adding an accusation that India was supporting the Taliban, as well. This latter assertion was supported by the alleged discovery in Waziristan of large quantities of Indian-made arms, ammunition, and literature. In December, Malik said four arms-laden Indian trucks had been seized in the Khyber agency.269
India is the leading regional contributor to Afghan reconstruction and development efforts, having devoted some $1.3 billion in this effort, as compared to about $300 million from Pakistan. In the view of many analysts, Pakistan’s “paranoia” with regard to the perceived threat from India leads Pakistani leaders engage a zero-sum regional competition with that rival. In this way, Pakistan’s primary goal with regard to Afghanistan is to prevent any dominant Indian influence there.270 Some observers saw General McChrystal’s August 2009 assessment that “increasing India’s influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions” as sign that U.S. officials might press India to keep a low or lower profile there, the U.S. government has continued to welcome and laud India’s role in Afghanistan while at the same time recognizing Islamabad’s legitimate security interests in having a friendly western neighbor.271

That provides cover for Pakistani support of militants – they’ll provoke Indian retaliation
CFR 10 (Task Force Chairs: Richard L. Armitage is the president of Armitage International and a former deputy secretary of state (2001–2005). Armitage served in the Pentagon as the assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs (1983–89) and deputy assistant secretary of defense for East Asia and Pacific affairs (1981–83). Samuel R. Berger is chair of Albright Stonebridge Group, a global strategy firm. Berger works across many of the firm’s engagements, with a strong focus on Asia, Russia and Central Asia, and the Middle East. Berger received his BA from Cornell University and his JD from Harvard Law School, November 2010. Task Force Report. U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan. http://www.cfr.org/publication/23253/us_strategy_for_pakistan_and_afghanistan.html pp.20-21)

But today U.S. and Pakistani perspectives on militancy diverge in important ways. The connections between the Pakistani state and extremist militants persisted long after the Soviet Union collapsed and the United States left the scene. Pakistan differentiates between militant groups, now fighting vigorously against the Pakistani Taliban— which threatens the state—while offering support or turning a blind eye to those groups that direct violence against India, Afghanistan, the United States, and other targets outside Pakistan. The reasons for this policy appear to be diverse. Some influential elements within Pakistan’s military and intelligence services hold extreme ideologies. It is difficult, if not impossible, for outsiders to know how significant these circles of radical officers are. Other Pakistani officials still believe that militants can be controlled and used to further Pakistan’s strategic interests in the region. In particular, they see militancy as a necessary tool for dealing with India, Pakistan’s larger and increasingly formidable neighbor. For them, Afghanistan is a critical battleground for conflicting Indo-Pakistani interests. By providing sanctuary to Afghan militants, they believe they can influence events in Afghanistan, particularly after international forces withdraw. Whatever the rationale, Pakistan’s apparent strategy of distinguishing between various militant outfits is dangerous. It contradicts Washington’s regional and global security efforts. Cross-border attacks against U.S. forces based in Afghanistan (conducted by the Haqqani network, Hizb-i Islami Gulbuddin, and the Quetta Shura Taliban) could be sharply reduced if the Pakistani army closed the bases of such groups inside Pakistan. The expanding global reach and ambition of LeT, a group composed mainly of ethnic Pakistani Punjabis with strong historical links to the Pakistani intelligence community and to al-Qaeda, makes it especially threatening. LeT is becoming a globalized terror network. Hubs and operatives across South Asia are linked to logistical, fund-raising, and recruiting networks in the Persian Gulf, and they have found supporters and sympathizers in the West—including in Britain, Canada,
and the United States.4 The U.S. director of national intelligence has testified that LeT “is becoming more of a direct threat, and is placing Western targets in Europe in its sights.”5 Left unchecked, LeT and its affiliates could eventually rival al-Qaeda as the world’s most sophisticated and dangerous terrorist organization. LeT’s November 2008 attack in Mumbai offers a recent example of how Pakistan-based terrorists threaten American citizens and could spark a dangerous war between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan. Numerous Pakistan-based groups remain motivated and able to strike Indian targets again. Indian military restraint cannot be taken for granted in the event of another attack. Escalated tensions between New Delhi and Islamabad would compromise U.S. aims by shifting Islamabad’s attention and resources away from operations against militants along its western border to defend against potential Indian retaliation along its eastern border. An Indo-Pakistani conflict could also disrupt the U.S. war effort in Afghanistan by cutting off Pakistan’s vital supply corridors through which some three-quarters of all NATO supplies travel. The final reason Pakistan remains a terrorist haven is that the state has struggled to impose its authority even when its leaders have decided to take on terrorists and insurgents. Between 2001 and 2010, Pakistan endured the deaths of nearly 2,300 soldiers, mainly in operations along the Afghan border.6 Over the past several years, the army and frontier scouts have improved their capacity for clearing well-defended militant strongholds, but they have a much harder time sustaining these gains without effective civilian institutions to step in and administer law and order or provide access to basic services. Weak or nonexistent police forces and limited judicial facilities may be contributing to a reported problem of extrajudicial killings by Pakistani troops in areas once held by the Taliban.7 Under these conditions, there is reason to fear that heavy-handed Pakistani military operations are as likely to create new local grievances as to root out entrenched militant networks.

Afghanistan is the critical battleground – only a CT posture reassures both countries the U.S. isn’t picking sides
Innocent 10 (Malou Innocent, foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute and a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies. Her primary research interests include Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf security issues and U.S. foreign policy toward Pakistan, Afghanistan and China. She has appeared on CNN, BBC News, Fox News Channel, Al-Jazeera, the Voice of America, CNBC Asia and Reuters, and has written for numerous journals and newspapers, September 2010 – Foreign Service Journal http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/fsjournal201009.pdf#page=38)

The clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington goes unanswered by present U.S. policy, even though it is one of the many underlying sources of the Afghan mission’s vulnerability. In this respect, stability in Pakistan does not require — indeed, it does not benefit from — the presence of U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan. First, foreign troops neither resolve the ongoing rivalry between Pakistan and India nor decrease either country’s incentive to use the region as a proxy battleground. Second, Washington’s short- and long-term interests in the broader Asia-Pacific region provide policymakers with limited wiggle room for choosing sides in South Asia’s chief regional dispute. Finally, widespread suspicions that the United States and India are colluding to dismember Pakistan encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan, thereby undermining the viability of any government in Kabul supported by New Delhi. Long-term stability in this region will come about only after the United States scales down its Afghanistan policy to a much narrower counterterrorism mission and Pakistan is convinced that its future security does not lie in continuing its self-defeating support of Islamist proxies. To surmount this critical stumbling block, the United States must encourage the formation of a national government in Afghanistan that includes a political buy-in from Islamabad. The Rivalry. In the West, many defense officials, policymakers and analysts endorse a long-term commitment to Afghanistan based on the foreign policy tenet that extremists can prosper in ungoverned parts of the world and attack the United States. Another argument strengthening the belief that America and its allies must stabilize Afghanistan is the fear that Pakistan’s nuclear weapons could fall into militant hands. In the July-August 2009 issue of The American Interest, Stephen Biddle, a civilian adviser to the former commander of U.S. troops on the Afghan front, General Stanley Mc- Chrystal, bluntly articulated the argument that America must prevent Afghanistan’s radicalism from engulfing Pakistan: “Instability in Afghanistan also poses a serious threat to the secular civilian government in Pakistan. This is the single greatest U.S. interest in Afghanistan: to prevent it from aggravating Pakistan’s internal problems and magnifying the danger of an al-Qaida nuclear-armed sanctuary there.” That kind of thinking has clearly influenced the Obama administration. Speaking before the Senate Armed Services Committee last December, U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates warned: “Failure in Afghanistan would mean a Taliban takeover of much, if not most, of the country and likely a renewed civil war. Taliban-ruled areas could in short order become once again a sanctuary for al-Qaida, as well as a staging area for resurgent militant groups on the offensive in Pakistan.” That Afghanistan’s internal security situation presents challenges to Pakistan is correct, as far as the analysis goes. But neither Biddle nor Gates explains how those challenges necessitate America’s military presence in the region or how that presence enhances Pakistan’s stability. In fact, their rationale obscures several important questions: To what extent do foreign military operations in the region — and Pakistan’s acquiescence to Western policies — spawn more recruits for al-Qaida–linked groups seeking to provoke a conflict between Pakistan and India? To what degree do India and America have similar vested interests in war-torn Afghanistan’s resurrection? And why has Pakistan not gone after the original Afghan Taliban, much less al-Qaida, for the past nine years? It is an open secret that hawkish elements affiliated with the ISI have taken no substantive action against Mullah Omar’s Quetta Shura, the North Waziristan-based Haqqani network, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s Hizb-e-Islami Group and other warlords commanding Afghanistan’s insurgency from inside Pakistan. Pakistan’s duplicity was vividly illustrated last February when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Taliban’s top field commanders, but Islamabad refused to extradite him to Washington. According to former U.N. envoy Kai Eide, Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government at the time of his arrest — a sign that the ISI may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks that did not have Islamabad’s approval. Additionally, U.S., Indian and Afghan intelligence officials all allege that the ISI may have had a role in the July 2008 and October 2009 bombings of the Indian embassy in Kabul. And Gilles Dorronsoro, an authority on Afghanistan at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, writes that Pakistan uses the Afghan Taliban against domestic Baluchi insurgents. As if Pakistan’s deleterious policies were not harmful enough to the Afghan mission, it is believed (though rarely discussed openly) that India’s external intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing, uses consulates in Afghanistan to secretly funnel weapons to separatists in Baluchistan. C. Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University and a senior fellow with the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, said in an online roundtable convened by Foreign Affairs: “I think it is unfair to dismiss the notion that Pakistan’s apprehensions about Afghanistan stem in part from its security competition with India ... Indian officials have told me privately that they are pumping money into Baluchistan.” Many in the Pakistani military allege that India assists Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas by smuggling weapons though Afghanistan. “What does an Indian consulate do in Afghanistan when there is no Indian population?” a Pakistani intelligence official asked the New York Times. After six decades of mutual hostility, three full-scale wars and numerous border skirmishes, it appears that the enmity between India and Pakistan, as well as the focal point of their proxy terrorism, has shifted from the disputed territory of Kashmir to the battlefields of Afghanistan. “In Afghanistan, as well as in Kashmir,” Muhammad Amir Rana argues in The A to Z of Jehadi Organizations in Pakistan (2004, translated by Saba Ansari), “Pakistan’s intelligence agencies hit a jackpot when they realized the efficacy of covert warfare as a potent method of bleeding a stronger adversary while keeping the element of plausible deniability.” Thrusting U.S. and NATO troops into this maelstrom of competing strategic interests and covert proxy warfighting (between two nuclear-armed powers, no less) is profoundly imprudent. Strategically, however, because of Pakistan’s unstinting, sustained support for extremists, some analysts argue that Washington must eventually back India over Pakistan. As explained below, this proposal is enticing for several reasons. However, tensions between America’s short- and long-term interests in the wider Asia-Pacific region may preclude the luxury of choosing sides.

That facilitates a strategic balance of power – lets the U.S. effectively mediate conflict and deter war
CSM 10 ("Obama and India-Pakistan talks: US can be a better go-between," February 25, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/the-monitors-view/2010/0226/Obama-and-India-Pakistan-talks-US-can-be-a-better-go-between)

The war in Afghanistan is now clearly President Obama’s war after his surge of 30,000 troops and the successful retaking of a former Taliban stronghold in Marjah this past week by US forces. But there is also a diplomatic front, one in which Mr. Obama will need another surge: improved relations between India and Pakistan, two key players in the region. Just how soon Obama will be able to bring US soldiers home from Afghanistan depends to a certain extent on whether these nuclear-armed adversaries in South Asia can end their historic rivalry, especially their maneuvering for influence in neighboring Afghanistan. With a 63-year history of hostility and three wars dragging down their relations, India and Pakistan held talks Feb. 25 – partly under US pressure. India had cut off formal peacemaking contact after the 2008 attacks in Mumbai (Bombay) by Pakistan-linked terrorists. The talks in New Delhi did not go very well. There was no agreement to meet again, only a suggestion to “keep in touch.” No joint statement, no joint press conference, and lots of finger-pointing. What’s more, a bomb explosion in Kabul on Friday seemed to be targeted at Indians living in the Afghan capital, perhaps an attempt by pro-Pakistan militants to disrupt further talks. All this points to the need for Obama and his special envoy, Richard Holbrooke, to be more forceful in reconciling India and Pakistan as part of a regional approach to ending the Afghan war. Pakistan can’t very well root out Al Qaeda, the Taliban, and other militants along its Afghan border if its military still remains focused on a perceived threat from India. More of its forces need to be transferred from the border with India to the mountainous frontier with Afghanistan. And India can’t very well trust Pakistan not to go back to its old pattern of supporting terrorists like the Afghan Taliban or the anti-Indian militants seeking to liberate the disputed territory of Kashmir. This tangled web of differences may not be easily untied by India and Pakistan by themselves. Yes, both countries have strategic incentives to warm up to each other, especially in viewing terrorism as a joint enemy. India is trying to match China’s bid for influence in the region. And it needs an end to terrorist attacks on its soil by Pakistan-related terrorists in order to keep its economy humming at about 9 percent and to reduce massive poverty. Pakistan, meanwhile, has revived its fragile democracy since 2007 and last year finally awakened to the internal threat to its stability from jihadist groups. But it has not gone far enough to eliminate those militants or to turn over suspects in the 2008 Mumbai bombing to India. For now, the US cannot mediate their specific differences, especially on Kashmir. (The US tried to mediate that conflict in the early 1960s only to further push India away from any alliance with the US during the cold war.) As a rising power, India resists a strong US hand in the region although it seeks a global partnership with America. The Obama administration can certainly do more to push the two back to the negotiating table. To help that along, it must continue to win the trust of both nations as long-term partners. The US should improve ties with the Pakistani military and treat Pakistan with as much long-term strategic interest as it does India. And it must further its growing alliance with India and pressure Pakistan to arrest anti-India militants. Only with an even-handed approach will the US be able to keep the two countries on the road to negotiations and help end a long feud that spills over into Afghanistan. Sometimes wars are fought far from the battlefield. Obama’s success as commander in chief in Afghanistan will also depend on his diplomatic skills in South Asia’s long cold war.

India uses Cold Start for proxy retaliation and lowers Pakistan’s nuclear red line – limited war escalates quickly
Ladwig 7 (Walter C. Ladwig, doctoral candidate in international relations at Merton College at the University of Oxford, "A Cold Start for Hot Wars?" in International Security 32:3, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/IS3203_pp158-190.pdf)

It is a well-worn military axiom that no plan survives contact with the enemy. Cold Start is an example of creative military problem solving in response to Pakistan’s support for terrorism and stated rejection of a no-first-use nuclear doctrine. By moving away from the Sundarji doctrine, the Indian Army believes that it is developing the ability to respond to a Pakistani proxy war with conventional force, while remaining below the nuclear threshold. This development has significant implications for stability on the subcontinent, however. Analysts such as Ashley Tellis have argued that the cornerstone of the “ugly stability” that has persisted between India and Pakistan is a product of the incapacity of either side to gain its political objectives through conventional war.39 Pakistan charges that India is deliberately creating a risky environment in South Asia by engaging in a conventional military buildup that reduces Pakistan’s relative security.40 Furthermore, there is every reason to expect that Pakistan will make its own innovations in response to Cold Start. As India enhances its ability to achieve a quick military decision against its neighbor in a future conflict, Pakistan will come under increasing pressure to rely on its nuclear arsenal for self-defense. An operational Cold Start capability could lead Pakistan to lower its nuclear red line, put its nuclear weapons on a higher state of readiness, develop tactical nuclear weapons, or undertake some equally destabilizing course of action.41The fundamental concern about any limited war strategy in South Asia is that a conflict begun for limited aims escalates into a much bigger conflagration. Morton Halperin has identified two ways that a limited war can escalate into a larger conflict: deliberately and inadvertently.42 A side that is losing a limited war could choose to escalate the conflict to avoid defeat. Alternatively, the course of a conflict could be overtaken by events that could cause it to move beyond the control or intended scope of the policymakers who initiated it. As a result, waging limited war can pose a number of challenges to political leaders attempting to achieve their aims through the use of force. In particular, a limited war strategy poses four challenges for India: the challenge of setting political objectives, the challenge of Pakistani misperception, the challenge of agency, and the challenge of geography.

India’s finalized the Cold Start Doctrine – they’ll initiate a limited war if provoked
Eurasia Review 4/17 (Mr. Masood-Ur-Rehman Khattak is working at the South Asian Strategic Stability Institute (SASSI) Islamabad as Research Fellow. He did his M.Phil in Defence and Strategic Studies from Quaid-I-Azam University, Islamabad. His major research areas are Nuclear Deterrence in South Asia, Terrorism, Non-Proliferation issues, FATA, Afghanistan and Regional Security issues, "India’s Military’s Cold Start Doctrine And Impact On Deterrence Stability In South Asia – Analysis," April 17, http://www.eurasiareview.com/indias-military’s-cold-start-doctrine-and-impact-on-deterrence-stability-in-south-asia-analysis-17042011/)

Deterrence in South Asia is delicate because of rapid militarization and operationalisation of Indian Military’s Cold Start Doctrine (CSD). CSD has the potential not only to operationalise Indian military’s aggressive doctrine on the basis of pre-emption but can also trigger a nuclear conflict. Main purpose of Cold Start is to give a “punishing” reply to Pakistan in case of any alleged terrorist attack on Indian soil with totally different orientation of the Indian armed forces from defensive to offensive. Under CSD the Indian army would carry out swift, quick and offensive joint operations against the Pakistan military. Main objective of such operations is to create an element of surprise and give no response time to the Pakistan military. CSD would require reformation of the army’s offensive power into eight smaller division-sized Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) that would have mechanized infantry, artillery and armour. (Indian army’s division size is around 23,000 troops). These IBGs would be self-contained and highly-mobile, with Russian-origin T-90 MBT and upgraded T-72 M1 tanks at their core, adequately backed by air cover and artillery fire assaults, for rapid thrusts into Pakistan within 72-96 hours. Possible deployment of these IBGs would be in Punjab and Rajastan sector close to the border with Pakistan. In 2005 the Vajra Shakti Exercise, brought flexibility in its Holding corps or defensive corps. These holding corps were designated as Pivot corps. Pivot corps can initiate offensive if required in the battlefield. It would have offensive punch in it and could be used as mixed corps. According to the then Chief of Army Staff, Gen J J Singh, ‘‘They (Pivot Corps) have assigned roles, which are offensive as well as defensive and the doctrine does not spell them out in detail. The decision making has been left to theatre commanders, depending upon their assessment and evaluation of the situation. These pivot corps has an infantry division, armoured regiments and an independent mechanized brigade. Such a reformation in the Indian army shows its intentions to operationalise Cold Start Doctrine against Pakistan. To operationalise this concept (CSD) the Indian military has carried out almost 10 major exercises close to the border with Pakistan. Main purpose of these exercises was to overcome the deficiencies in the Indian military and develop synergy and integration among the armed forces to carry out integrated operations against Pakistan. In these exercises the Indian Army introduced latest weapons and equipment, including Long Range Reconnaissance and Observation System-(LORROS), this system would enhance her surveillance, observation and targeting capabilities. In 2005 Indian military practiced Force Multiplication Command Post- (FMCP) to integrate real-time flow of information as a principal tool for decision making and NCW capabilities in the Indian Army. The Indian Army has also worked hard to improve it capabilities to supply logistics in the dark formations without lights. In last six years the Indian military has practiced its capabilities to carry out Swift and Quick operations without any time barrier. In 2007 the Indian military introduced its capabilities to fight a war in the Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) environment in the Ashwamedh exercise. This demonstrates that India is ready to wage a limited war under the nuclear umbrella. From 2004 to 2010 the Indian military practiced offensive operations with its special forces; it has tested its capabilities to carry out heli-borne operations behind the enemy lines. Such capabilities are essential as far as surgical strikes are concerned. In 2009 the Indian army carried out an exercise called Hind Shakti, on that occasion Indian army’s former Chief General Deepak Kapoor claimed that, “this exercise is another step in army’s continued venture to fine tune its Cold Start Doctrine” which shows Indian military’s continued efforts to operationalise this doctrine against Pakistan. The years 2009 and 2010 were very important, as far as operationalisation of the CSD is concerned. In these years Indian military introduced and practiced, Intensive Electronic and Information Warfare capabilities, Satellite imagery, Helicopter borne operations and, Surveillance systems. Another important induction in the Indian military’s weapon and equipment were Battlefield Surveillance Radars (BFSRs) and Weapon Locating Radars (WLRs). All these inductions are serious threat to the national security of Pakistan.

That causes extinction even if outside powers don’t get involved.
Robock 10 (Alan Robock, Professor II Department of Environmental Sciences. School of Environmental and Biological Sciences Rutgers University, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change Vol 1. May/June 2010 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcc.45/full)

Based on some early experiments with a general circulation model that was limited in vertical extent and length of runs,12 some (e.g., Ref 13) suggested that nuclear winter theory was disproved. But recent work with modern climate models and computers has shown that nuclear winter theory was correct, and that, in fact, the effects would last for many years, much longer than previously thought.14 The number of nuclear weapons in the world has decreased to 1/3 of the peak number of more than 70,000 in the 1980s, and current treaties call for the global arsenal to be less than 10% of that number by 2012. Yet, if used, even this arsenal could plunge the planet into nuclear winter. Furthermore, nuclear proliferation now presents the problem that a nuclear war between new nuclear states, say India and Pakistan, using much less than 1% of the current global arsenal, could produce so much smoke that, while it would not produce winter conditions in the summer, it could produce global environmental change unprecedented in recorded human history.15 This article first discusses the history of nuclear weapons arsenals and reviews the theory of nuclear winter. It then presents new climate model simulations of the effects ofmassive smoke input to the atmosphere from fires, and multiple analogs that give us confidence in the different parts of the theory. Next, the biological consequences of these climate changes are described. Finally, policy implications are discussed. THE NUCLEAR ARSENAL On August 6, 1945, a 15-kt nuclear bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, killing approximately 150,000 people. (1 kt means the explosive power of 1000 tons of TNT; 1 Mt = 1000 kt.) Many of these people died from the fires ignited by the bomb, which turned the city into a raging inferno, which pumped dense clouds of smoke high into the atmosphere. Figure 1 shows the remains of the city. Where did all the buildings go? A significant fraction of them went up in smoke. Many more people would have died if help had not been available immediately from outside the city in the form of medical care, food, water, and shelter. Three days later a 20-kt bomb was dropped on Nagasaki, also killing tens of thousands, but since then nuclear bombs have not been used in warfare. When nuclear winter theory was first developed in the early 1980s, at the height of the nuclear arms race, the world had more than 50,000 nuclear weapons. Now, with the Cold War over, the US and Russia are reducing their nuclear arsenals. However, with about 8500 nuclear weapons still deployed in the world (as of the year 2009), there are still many more than would be necessary to produce nuclear winter (Table 1, Figure 2). The total explosive power of the current arsenal becomes more meaningful when considered in perspective. There is the equivalent explosive power of more than 1 ton of TNT for each human on the face of the Earth. The 15-kt Hiroshima bomb was only 0.00018% of the current global arsenal. If one Hiroshima-sized bomb were dropped every day, it would take more than 1550 years to use up the current arsenal. The total explosive power of all bombs dropped in all of World War II, during which 50,000,000 people died, including Hiroshima and Nagasaki, was 3 Mt.25 The total explosive power of all bombs ever used in the history of the world in wars is 10 Mt, with 4 Mt of those dropped in the Vietnam war.26 Yet we now have 850 times that explosive power in the world arsenals. And the number of nuclear weapons states is growing, increasing the danger that these weapons could be used (Figure 3). This illustrates the enormity of the current potential to start fires. HOW COULD NUCLEAR WINTER BE PRODUCED? A nuclear explosion is like bringing a piece of the Sun to Earth’s surface for a fraction of a second. About one-third of the energy of a nuclear explosion is in the form of light or heat. Like a giantmatch, it causes cities and industrial areas to burn. The assumption made in many nuclear winter scenarios is that anything receiving more than 10 calories per square centimeter per minute (about 7000 W/m2—20 times the average amount of energy received at the top of Earth’s atmosphere from the Sun) will burst into flames, and this was demonstrated in actual tests in Nevada before the atmospheric nuclear test ban. Megacities have developed in India and Pakistan and other developing countries, providing tremendous amounts of fuel for potential fires. Following the flash of light comes the blast wave (like thunder following lightning) which will break apart many structures and blow out the flames, but crumpled structures burn more easily and fires would be reignited by burning embers and electrical sparks. Imagine how easily a house would burn with open gas lines or a filling station with gas pumps knocked over. In fact, there are many flammable sources of fuel for fires in cities, including buildings and their contents, trees, and even asphalt. Modern materials, such as plastics, not only burn with a sooty smoke, but also produce high levels of toxic chemicals. The direct effects of the nuclear weapons, blast, radioactivity, fires, and extensive pollution would kill millions of people, but only those near the targets. However, the fires would have another effect. Massive amounts of dark smoke from the fires would be lofted into the upper troposphere, 10–15 km above Earth’s surface in the tropics and 6–8 km above the surface in higher latitudes, and then absorption of sunlight would further heat the smoke, lifting it into the stratosphere, a layer where the smoke would persist for years, with no rain to wash it out. The climatic effects of the use of nuclear weapons depend on the amount of smoke they would generate, and this depends on the targets. Nuclear targeting plans call for not only cities to be targeted, but also industrial facilities such as oil refineries and wells. Forests around military targets would also provide fuel. All these targets together would produce clouds of black sooty smoke, which rise into the atmosphere. For 50 nuclear weapons dropped on two countries, on the targets that would produce the maximum amount of smoke, as much as 5 Tg of black smoke would be produced, accounting for the amount emitted from the fires and the amount immediately washed out in rain.27 For a war between the US and Russia, even with total arsenals of about 4000 weapons planned for 2012 with current treaties, 150 Tg of smoke could be produced by the fires.28 As the smoke is lofted into the stratosphere, it would be transported around the world by the prevailing winds, as illustrated in animations from Refs 14,15 at http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/ nuclear/BCabsoptdaily.gif and http://climate.envsci. rutgers.edu/nuclear/BCdaily150tg.gif. CLIMATE MODEL CALCULATIONS As discussed in detail by Robock et al.,14 earlier climate model simulations of the effect of massive smoke injections from nuclear fires were limited by the available computer time, available data, and the small number of people working on the problem. They used single-column radiative-convective models, energy balance models, or low-resolution atmospheric general circulation models that only considered the lower atmosphere, ignored ocean changes, and were run for very short periods. This prevented them from calculating the lifetime of smoke or long-term responses. However, modern climate models have now been applied to this problem. These new climate model simulations, with the capability of including the entire atmosphere and oceans, find that the smoke would be lofted by solar heating to the upper stratosphere, where it would remain for years.15 The climatic effects of the smoke from burning cities and industrial areas would last for several years, much longer than we previously thought. And a nuclear war between India and Pakistan, with each country using 50 Hiroshimasized atom bombs as airbursts on urban areas, could produce climate change unprecedented in recorded human history.15 This would be less than 0.02% of the explosive power of the current global arsenal. This same scenario would produce global ozone depletion, because the heating of the stratosphere would enhance the chemical reactions that destroy ozone.29 Figure 4 shows the global temperature changes following the injection of 5 Tg of smoke into the upper troposphere in the subtropics.15 Global average temperatures would rapidly plummet to values below those of the Little Ice Age (1500–1850). The global hydrological cycle would also weaken, reducing global average precipitation by 10%. While these temperatures would not be winter-like, growing seasons in midlatitudes of both hemispheres would be shortened by up to a few weeks, with potentially large impacts on agricultural production.15 The global average cooling, of about 1.25◦C, would last for several years and even after 10 years the temperature would still be 0.5◦C colder than normal. These numbers might not seem like much, but even during the Little Ice Age, global temperatures were only about 0.5◦C below normal. Every once in a while large volcanic eruptions produce temporary cooling for a year or two. The largest of the past 500 years, the 1815 Tambora eruption in Indonesia, produced global cooling of about 0.5◦C for a year. Year 1816 became known as the ‘Year Without a Summer’ or ‘18 hundred and froze to death’.30,31 There were crop-killing frosts every month of the summer in New England. The price of grain skyrocketed, the price of livestock plummeted as farmers sold the animals they could not feed, and a mass migration westward from the US East Coast across the Appalachians to the Midwest began. In Europe, widespread famines occurred and the weather was so cold, dark, and gloomy that Mary Shelley was inspired to write Frankenstein in 1816. A nuclear war could trigger declines in yield nearly everywhere at once, with strong impacts on the global agricultural trading system.

U.S. presence is the key internal link – withdrawal undercuts Pakistani hawks
Innocent 10 (Malou Innocent, foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute and a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies. Her primary research interests include Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf security issues and U.S. foreign policy toward Pakistan, Afghanistan and China. She has appeared on CNN, BBC News, Fox News Channel, Al-Jazeera, the Voice of America, CNBC Asia and Reuters, and has written for numerous journals and newspapers, September 2010 – Foreign Service Journal http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/fsjournal201009.pdf#page=38)

The notion that Pakistan’s stability necessitates America’s presence in Afghanistan is based on a plethora of questionable assumptions. Worse, the policy fails to address three of the region’s underlying problems. First, rather than pacifying the region, the Western occupation intensifies the bitter, decades-long antagonism between New Delhi and Islamabad. Second, throwing support behind either India or Pakistan — or cooperating with both countries simultaneously — will prove extremely difficult. Finally, widespread suspicions in Pakistan that America and India are scheming to undermine its unity permit Pakistani hawks to justify their short-sighted support for Islamist proxies, thus threatening the long-term viability of the Afghan government. Because America’s presence in Afghanistan overlooks these core issues, current U.S. policy inadvertently contributes to the very instability that leaders in Washington ostensibly seek to forestall. If America’s interests lie in ensuring that the virus of violent anti-American radicalism does not infect the rest of the region, a shift in U.S. policy must be two-pronged: the foreign troop presence should be scaled down, and Western leaders should harness Pakistan’s influence over extremist proxies by encouraging Islamabad to help broker a political settlement in Afghanistan (possibly best done behind closed doors). No longer can U.S. policymakers remain willfully blind to the reality that present operations are pushing Pakistan toward further Balkanization. Its Pashtun-dominated regions along the Afghan border are almost fully Talibanized. The Baluch people, long denied economic and political rights, continue their separatist insurgency. And given the ongoing urban and political violence in Sindh, as well as Punjab, a perpetual state of internecine violence is Pakistan’s likely future. As Council on Foreign Relations Adjunct Senior Fellow Steve Simon writes: “Ultimately, the United States is caught in a vicious circle. In the face of a threatening al-Qaida hosted by the Taliban, the United States deepens its involvement in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Al-Qaida and the Taliban respond to the U.S. presence with destabilizing violence and insurgent activity.


===U.S.-Israel Relations Add-on - Round 4=== 

COIN destroys Israel relations – want tougher CT posture
Gusterson 10 (Hugh Gusterson, Professor of Anthropology at George Mason University. Hugh Gusterson took a B.A. in history at Cambridge University in 1980, a Masters degree in Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania in 1982, and a PhD in anthropology at Stanford University in 1992. He was a professor at MIT from 1992-2006, when he came to George Mason University. “The olive branch in the West Bank,” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/hugh-gusterson/the-olive-branch-the-west-bank)

Israel's ambassador to the U.S., Michael Oren, was recently quoted as saying that relations between the U.S. and Israel were undergoing a "tectonic rift in which continents are drifting apart." If the quote is accurate, which Oren later disputed, it is surely an overstatement. Still, an interesting divergence is developing in the means by which the U.S. and Israeli militaries are dealing with Islamic militants in territories they are occupying. In the past I have dismissed the U.S. counterinsurgency project in Afghanistan as a fool's errand, but one has to at least give credit to the U.S. military for trying to wage counterinsurgency thoughtfully. Since Gen. David Petraeus rewrote the book on counterinsurgency, the U.S. has adopted an approach that seeks to isolate the Taliban from the wider population and to win the hearts and minds of that population. The U.S. has backed away from destroying the Afghan opium crop on which many Afghan peasants rely for income, realizing that eradication efforts were doing more damage to U.S. popularity in Helmand Province than to the opium trade. U.S. commanders are instructing foot soldiers, despite complaints that this endangers their lives, to hold their fire rather than risk killing civilians because civilian deaths are a propaganda gift to the Taliban. U.S. officials are experimenting with door-to-door opinion pollsters to try to discern what the ordinary Afghan person on the street wants. And the U.S. is pouring almost $4 billion a year in development aid into Afghanistan to build schools, roads, irrigation projects, and electric power-generating capacity in the hope of winning the affections of the Afghan people. Contrast this refined counterinsurgency strategy with Israel's sledgehammer approach. Where the U.S. seeks to win Afghan support with development projects, Israel expropriates Palestinian land for Israeli settlements and puts in place a blockade that is unmaking Gaza's economy: If the U.S. is using development as a carrot, Israel wields collective impoverishment as a stick. Where the U.S. tries to separate Islamic fighters from the general population whose loyalty it seeks, Israel has made collective punishment its rule: All of Gaza is now blockaded because Hamas won the 2006 elections, and the Israeli military has had a policy of retaliating against individual attackers by blowing up their families' houses. And if U.S. commanders are telling their soldiers to practice restraint, the Israeli rule of thumb seems to be that Israeli soldiers should always be one or two rungs higher on the ladder of escalation than those they seek to control. Instead of seeking to separate insurgents from the general population, as the Petraeus strategy does, it is as if Israel wanted to turn everyone into a militant.

Middle East War
Kramer 6 (Martin Kramer, fellow at The Washington Institute and senior fellow at the Olin Institute, Harvard. “The American Interest,” Fall, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC06.php?CID=980)

My answer, to anticipate my conclusion, is this: United States support for Israel is not primarily the result of Holocaust guilt or shared democratic values; nor is it produced by the machinations of the “Israel Lobby.” American support for Israel -- indeed, the illusion of its unconditionality – underpins the pax Americana in the eastern Mediterranean. It has compelled Israel’s key Arab neighbors to reach peace with Israel and to enter the American orbit. The fact that there has not been a general Arab-Israeli war since 1973 is proof that this pax Americana, based on the United States-Israel alliance, has been a success. From a realist point of view, supporting Israel has been a low-cost way of keeping order in part of the Middle East, managed by the United States from offshore and without the commitment of any force. It is, simply, the ideal realist alliance. In contrast, the problems the United States faces in the Persian Gulf stem from the fact that it does not have an Israel equivalent there, and so it must massively deploy its own force at tremendous cost. Since no one in the Gulf is sure that the United States has the staying power to maintain such a presence over time, the Gulf keeps producing defiers of America, from Khomeini to Saddam to Bin Laden to Ahmadinejad. The United States has to counter them, not in the interests of Israel, but to keep the world’s great reserves of oil out of the grip of the West’s sworn enemies.

Extinction
Moore 9 (Carol Moore, BA in pol sci from Wayne State. Six Escalation Scenarios to Nuclear World War III, February 16, http://pakalert.wordpress.com/2009/02/16/six-escalation-scenarios-to-nuclear-world-war-iii/)

Israel is especially dangerous because its leaders and supporters have made clear for years that if Israel was every devastated by any kind of war or attack it would retaliate in indiscriminate “Samson Option” attacks against not just on Muslim cities, but against European and even Russian targets. (See “Israeli Nuclear Threats and Blackmail ” .) Russia, of course, would retaliate with thousands of nuclear bombs against the United States. Given suspected U.S. nuclear primacy plans, Russia could feel compelled to attack the United States for acts like a U.S. nuclear attack on Iran, which is just a few hundred miles from its border. On January 25, 1995 Boris Yeltsin, then President of Russia, came within three minutes of initiating a full nuclear strike on the United States because of one Norwegian scientific rocket Russians could not identify. (Details ) And U.S. leaders also could be spooked by a nuclear incident, as the 2002 movie “Sum of All Fears” illustrates.
Once there is any use of nuclear weapons, it will be like giving permission for anyone to use them. Compare it to a room full of people embarrassed to cough, but once one does, everyone else feels free to do so. Any use of nuclear weapons probably will lead to a rapid escalation, “out of control spiral,” to nuclear war among most or all nuclear nations–”world nuclear war.” The U.N. cannot stop it. U.S. imperialism and pre-emptive strikes cannot stop it. Only a worldwide disarmament movement can stop it.

===Korea Aff - Round 5=== 

The official story of the Korean War: in 1950, the North invaded the South, and we intervened to protect our ally and signal our commitment to peace and prosperity throughout the world. This is a distortion of history – here is a historical account of US military presence in Asia by
John Kim – U.S. Army veteran – in 2 (John H. Kim, U.S. Army veteran and the Chair of the Korea Committee of the Veterans For Peace, “A NEW LOOK AT THE KOREAN WAR”, http://www.veteransforpeace.org/Korea_war_statement.vp.html)

It’s about time that we, American people, take another look at the "Forgotten War" (a.k.a. "Unknown War") and try to understand the real nature of the War so that we could do something about bringing the War to an end. Many Americans erroneously believe that the war was over long time ago. But, in fact, the War is still going on there in less obvious ways: military build-ups, economic sanctions, propaganda war, nuclear crisis, etc. The sad truth is that the U.S. government has been fighting the longest, most ferocious, unauthorized war in its history. Almost a half century after the Armistice, the U.S. still maintains about 37,000 U.S. troops spread over dozens of military bases in South Korea today. What we have in Korea is merely a precarious cease-fire agreement which can turn into another war at any time. We came very close to re-ignite the war in 1994 and 1999. How long are we going to stay in Korea, and at what cost? When are we going to bring our boys home at last? How long are we going to ignore our responsibility for the tragic division of Korea and the Korean War? Division of Korea For a full understanding of Korean War, it is necessary to understand something about the past history of the U.S. policy toward Korea prior to the outbreak of the War. Korea first emerged as a unified country in 668 A.D. when Silla annexed Paekche and Koguryo, ending the Three Kingdoms period. The U.S. first established its diplomatic relation with Korea when it signed the Treaty of Amity and Commerce with the Kingdom of Choson in 1882. However, the U.S. government soon proved to be not a real friend to the Korean people when Japan attempted to colonize Korea. Instead of restraining Japan’s imperialist ambition, President Theodore Roosevelt entered into a secret deal with Japan in 1905 (a.k.a. "Taft-Katsura Memorandum") by recognizing Japan’s domination of Korea in return for Japan’s recognition of U.S. hegemony in the Philippines. This tendency of American government to betray Korean people’s interests repeats itself again at the end of the World War II. In order to stop the downward march of the Soviet Union troops and secure U.S. influence on the Korean peninsula, the U.S. State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee drew an arbitrary line across the 38th Parallel in Korea, asking the Soviet forces to stop at the 38th Parallel. Although the American forces were in Okinawa at the time, the Soviet Union somehow accepted the American demand meekly, thus paving the way for the establishment of two separate governments in Korea as the Cold war intensified. In addition to the tragic division of Korea, the U.S. also refused to recognize the Korean People’s Republic (KPR), a nationwide, progressive, people’s government which had been organized by the anti-Japanese nationalist Koreans before the arrival of American troops in South Korea in September 1945. Instead of cooperating with KPR, the U.S. created a military government in its zone of occupation, outlawing the KPR and the popular People’s Committees under the control of KPR. This is the key to a full understanding of the origin of the Korean War. Outbreak of the Korean War The official American history is that the Korean War started on June 25, 1950 when the North Korean forces suddenly attacked the South under Stalin’s order. This is a gross misrepresentation of the origin of the War. For one thing certain now, according to the Russian documents declassified, is that Stalin did not order Kim Il Sung to start the War. On the contrary, it was Kim Il Sung who sought permission to attack the South in case the North was attacked. The truth is that the Korean War really started in 1945 when the U.S. suppressed the KPR government and imposed its military rule in the southern part of Korea. During the American Military Government (1945-1948) and the period from the establishment of the Republic of Korea (ROK) in the South in August 1948 to the full-scale war in June 1950, the U.S. military and the fascist Rhee regime, allied with pro-Japanese Koreans, either imprisoned or killed hundreds of thousands of Korean nationalists and socialists in order to establish a separate, pro-American government in the South. This savage repression resulted in bloody armed struggle by the angry Korean peasants, workers, students, and soldiers all over southern Korea. Major armed uprisings took place in Daegu, Cheju Island, Yosu, and Sunchon. In Cheju Island alone from 1948 to 1949, more than 30,000 Koreans were killed, out of 300,000 population, by the South Korean police/military forces and right-wing youth gangs under the direction of the American military officers. In addition to the widespread guerrilla warfare in the South, major battles also broke out between the North Korean (DPRK) and South Korean (ROK) armies along the 38th parallel line in 1949. The first major battle, initiated by the ROK troops near the border city of Kaesong, took place on May 4, 1949, lasting four days with hundreds of dead soldiers. The fighting also occurred in June 1949 in the Ongjin peninsula, the same area where the official Korean War would "begin" one year later. Then another major battle also broke out in August 1949. Thus, when the armed clash broke out in June 1950, it was more or less a continuation of the past conflicts. It was certainly not a surprise attack. The anti-communist dictator Syngman Rhee was openly preaching a military unification of Korea by attacking the North. At the same time, the North Korean leader Kim Il Sung was also preparing for a military counter-attack against the South when Rhee attacked. The U.S. was fully aware of the tense situation and took advantage of it for justifying its rapid, gigantic military build-up plan which was first presented in April 1950 as National Security Council resolution #68. When the fighting started on June 25, each side accused the other for starting the war. Under this murky picture, President Truman nevertheless labeled the civil war as a naked aggression of communist world against a free nation, and intervened in the war under the UN flag to avoid an official declaration of war in the U.S. Congress. Truman characterized his decision as a "police action," setting a bad precedent for other U.S. military adventures, including the Vietnam War later. To American people of today, it doesn’t matter much as to which side started the American Civil War. The important thing we remember is that the war was fought over the issue of slavery and to preserve the national union. Likewise, the Korean War was mainly a civil war of Korean people over the question of national reunification which turned into an international military conflict with the intervention of outside forces in the war. Prof. Bruce Cumings of the University of Chicago, who is the author of the two monumental book on the Origins of the Korean War, sums it up the best: "The Nogun massacre can help Americans understand what this ‘forgotten war’ was really about. It was a civil and unconventional war that had its origins long before June 1950, and the official repositories of historical truth in Washington and Seoul have been lying about is basic nature for half a century."( Bruce Cumings, "Korean My Lai," the Nation, Oct. 25, 1999) U.S. Atrocities The Associated Press’ stunning report in September 1999 on the massacre of several hundred Korean civilians by U.S. soldiers in late July 1950 near Nogun-ri was a historical turning point in revealing the true history of the Korean War. It is the beginning of the unmasking of the official American lies. And it is just the tip of an iceberg. In addition to the crime of aggression, the United States committed numerous war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, in violation of the international humanitarian law, during the Korean War. They can be summarized as follows: 1) Massacre of Korean Civilians The U.S. Army, Air Force and Navy were directly involved in the killing of about three million Koran civilians—both South Koreans and North Koreans—at many locations throughout Korea, including Masan, Sachon, Tanyang, Iksan, Changyong, Wegwan, Ducksung, Sinchun, Wonsan, Pyongyang, etc. Several hundreds of civilians refugees were blown apart when the U.S. Army blew up Wegwan and Ducksung bridges in S. Korea. North Korean government claims that more than 35,000 N. Korean civilians were massacred at Sinchun county during the U.S. military occupation of the area near Pyongyang. One report indicates that the 7th Regiment of the 1st Cav. Division, which traces its infamous history all the way back to General Custer, was the same unit which was involved both in Nogun-ri and Sinchun massacres. Among the several branches of the U.S. military, the U.S. Air Force was probably more responsible than any other branches for the huge number of civilian killings because of its indiscriminate shootings and bombings of civilian refugees, villages, towns, and cities in violation of Hague Conventions. At the end of the war, almost all the North Korean cities were leveled to the ground by carpet bombing, including Pyonyang, Najin, Shiniju, Wonsan, Hungnam, etc. It is reported that the U.S. dropped some 650,000 tons of bombs, including 43,000 tons of napalm bombs, during the Korean War. (See Cumings, the Origins of the Korean War, Vol. II; Hart-Landsberg, Korea; and The Korea Herald, 10/9/1999) 2) Destruction of Economic Sites The first air bombing of North Korean dam occurred in May 1951 when the U.S. Navy planes torpedoed the gates of Hwachon dam. In April 1952, Air Force Brigadier General Jacob E. Smart’s staff drew up plans for strikes against the N. Korean power plants to destroy the economy of N. Korea. Gen. Matthew Ridgway and later Gen. Mark Clark endorsed these "air pressure" strikes. On June 23, 1952, Navy dive bombers from four carriers, covered by Air Force Sabres, attacked the Sui-ho hydroelectric power generation facilities located near Yalu River. Other power generation facilities were also bombed the next day. These attacks on power plants reduced N. Korea’s power generation capacity by 90%. At Smart’s suggestion, Air Force-Navy planes also struck N. Korea’s military plants and oil refinery sites. U.S. also destroyed five irrigation dams 27 miles north of Pyongyang in May 1953 through air bombing. The latter was intended to deny food to N. Koreans. (See Stanley Sandler, Editor, The Korean War: An encyclopedia, 1995, pp.231-237.) 3) Rape/Murder of Korean Women and Girls by U.S. Soldiers Numerous incidents of individual and group rapes of Korean girls and women have been reported both in South and North Korea during the War. This problem still persists in South Korea even today due to the continuing presence of some 37,000 U.S. troops there.(See Cumings, the Origins of the Korean War, Vol. II & International Association of Democratic Lawyers, Report on U.S. Crimes in Korea, 1952) 4) Chemical/Biological Warfare North Korea reported that American war planes dropped chemical bombs on the North Korean military positions as well as on villages, resulting hundreds of North Korean civilian deaths. U.S. also experimented with biological weapons in the North, with the active assistance of the Japanese war criminals who were involved in human experiments during WWII. (See Stephen Endicott, The U.S. & Biological Warfare: Secrets From Early Cold War and Korea) 5) Mistreatment of POWs Thousands of North Korean and Chinese POWs died due to deliberate shooting and torture by the prison guards, starvation and medical experiments. General Crawford Sam’s so-called Bubonic plague ship, Landing Craft No. 1091, was stationed in the Koje island where the majority of the POWs was kept. The ship is suspected to have used the POWs to work out certain aspects of germ warfare. (See Hugh Deane, The Korean War) 6) Threatening Use of Atomic Bombs On July 9, 1950, MacArthur sent a "hot message" to Joint Chiefs of staff (JCS) suggesting use of atomic bombs. On November 30, 1950, Truman himself threatened use of weapons of mass destruction, including atomic bomb, at a news conference. In December 1950 MacArthur asked for commander’s discretion to use nuclear bombs requesting 34 of them. He also proposed spreading a belt of radioactive cobalt across the neck of Manchuria. In June 1951, JCS considered use of atomic weapons in tactical battlefield circumstances. Simulated atomic bombing runs were conducted by B-29s from Okinawa (Operation Hudson Harbor). In Sept. and Oct. of 1951, Truman approved this experiment. In April 1953, president Eisenhower approved a contingency plan-NSC147- providing for atomic attacks on Communist air bases and lines of communication and transportation to force acceptance of Armistice agreement. (See Cumings, Korea’s Place Under the Sun) 7) Assassination Attempt on Kim, Il Sung The American CIA sent a Cherokee Indian American code-named "Buffalo" to North Korea during the War to kill the North Korean leader Kim, Il Sung with promise of a large sum of money in case of success. He obviously failed in his mission.(See Goulden, Korea) 8) Engaging in International Piracy and Murder In another secret operation code-named "TP-Stole" in 1951, the CIA intercepted in international water a Norwegian ship, loaded with medical supplies and volunteer doctors and nurses, which was heading toward Manchuria. The medical supplies were taken away by the Taiwan Coast Guard personnel disguised as pirates and the medical personnel were probably killed off. The medical supplies and personnel had been provided by the Indian government as a humanitarian aid for the wounded Chinese soldiers. This operation was directed by Hans Tofte, the CIA chief in the Far East under direct order from the CIA headquarters. (See Joseph C. Goulden, Korea: The Untold Story of the War) 9) Conspiracy to Remove/Murder Syngman Rhee As the South Korean President became more dictatorial and sometimes refused the U.S. order, the Truman administration authorized General Clark, the U.S. Commander in Korea, to take contingency measures ("Operation Everready") to arrest Rhee and install a S. Korean general, who would be more obedient to the U.S. order, as new head of a military government. The plan seems to have authorized killing of Rhee if necessary. (See Goulden, Korea; Cumings, the Origins of the Korean War, Vol. II) 10) Mass Murder of Korean Political Prisoners At the outbreak of the War, the S. Korean regime had some 100,000 political prisoners in jails. As the S. Korean military retreated to the south, the Rhee regime apparently issued orders, with possible approval of the U.S. advisers, to kill all the political prisoners. These prisoners were taken to fields, mountains or seas and executed by the S. Korean police or military police, often in the presence of U.S. military advisers or intelligence agents who took pictures of the mass killings. Lt. Col. Bob E. Edwards, the military attaché to the U.S. Embassy in South Korea, had sent secret reports of these executions with photos to the Joint Chief of Staff. However, the official U.S. Army’s history of the Korean War incredibly blamed the North Korean troops for this horrendous mass murder. In addition, hundreds of thousands of North Korean civilians who were followers or suspected supporters of the North Korean government were arrested and executed in cold blood during the U.S. occupation of North Korea in October and November 1950. (See The New York Times, 4/21/2000 ; Roy Appleman, South to Naktong, North to Yalu, office of the Chief Military History, 1961; Cumings) While the Pentagon was forced to reinvestigate the Nogun-ri massacre, the Clinton administration refused to investigate other war crimes or crimes against humanity that happened in Korea. In order to prevent any future happenings of similar atrocities, the U.S. Congress should establish a special commission to investigate the entire conduct of the U.S. officials during the Korean War. If the Congress does not do so, then it is incumbent upon the United Nations and American people to establish such a commission of inquiry. After all, these massacres were carried out in the name and under the authority of the United Nations and the U.S. In addition, in accordance with the result of the investigation, the gross sufferings of the victims of the atrocities should be fully redressed, including prosecution of those responsible for the atrocities and fair compensation to the victims. Developments Since the Armistice Agreement The bloody fighting which raged for more than three years finally stopped with an armistice agreement on July 27, 1953. It was signed by the U.S., North Korea and China, but not South Korea due to a strong opposition of the former dictator Syngman Rhee. Several million people are believed to have died during the War, including some two million N. Korean civilians and one million S. Korean civilians. Out of some 5.7 million Americans G.I.s who had served in the Korean War, about 54,000 American soldiers died in combat or for other causes. North Korea is believed to have lost more than 20 percent of its prewar population with a total destruction of its cities and towns. The cease-fire line, drawn along the actual fighting front, resulted in more or less the same division of the country along the 38th parallel. This artificial, cruel division of the homogeneous people, with some ten million victims of separated families, has been a continuing source of tensions and human sufferings. Although the Armistice agreement provided that an international conference be held within three months of signing the armistice "to settle through negotiation settlement of the Korean question, etc.," the U.S. was more anxious to conclude a mutual defense treaty with S. Korea. This defense treaty, signed on Oct. 1, 1953, is indefinite in duration and grants free military bases to the U.S. military in S. Korea. One important, enduring consequence of the War has been the U.S. military’s control over the South Korean military. It is alleged that Rhee gave the command authority of the S. Korean Armed Forces to Gen. MacArthur in July 1950. The legality of this action is in question. In any case, this subservient relationship between the U.S. and South Korea has continued after the War. To deflect the growing criticism of South Koreans over this neo-colonial arrangement, the two governments created a "Combined Forces Command" over the S. Korean and U.S. military forces in 1978. Up until late 1994, this meant the commander of the U.S. Forces/Korea had operational control of S. Korean Armed Forces even in peacetime (now, it’s only in wartime). Under this new arrangement, the U.S. Commander in S. Korea wears three hats as the Chief Commander of the UN Command, Combined Forces Command, and U.S. Forces/Korea. It is to be noted that, under this bizarre military arrangement, the U.S. will automatically get involved in another war if the Korean War is re-ignited, without any declaration of war by the U.S. Congress. In 1958 the Chinese troops withdrew from North Korea. Instead of reciprocating the Chinese move, the U.S. strengthened its military power in South Korea by bringing in tactical nuclear weapons there in clear violation of the Armistice agreement. This dangerous step probably forced North Korea into developing its own nuclear weapons which subsequently resulted in the deadly nuclear crisis with the U.S. in 1994. Through the good intervention of the former President Carter, the U.S. and DPRK was able to reach the ’94 Framework Agreement which committed the U.S. to a normalization of trade and diplomatic relations with North Korea. However, progress has been painfully slow on the part of the U.S. in lifting the longest economic sanctions against another state which was first imposed in 1950. The U.S. is now raising additional demands such as a freeze on North Korea’s long-range missile development and export before lifting its economic sanctions fully. Meanwhile, mainland China and Russia have established their diplomatic relations with South Korea. Both Koreas joined the United Nations in 1991, and the North Korea has established normal diplomatic relations with all Western countries except the U.S. and France by June 2001. Considering the current food energy crisis in North Korea for the past several years, it is quite troublesome and incomprehensible that the U.S. government has largely kept its economic sanctions against North Korea, while providing some food assistance on the other hand. Although Clinton announced the lifting of economic sanctions on North Korea in September 1999, his administration did not issue any implementing regulations until June 19, 2000. Even under the new regulations, any trade activities between the U.S. and North Korea still require prior license and approval of the U.S. government. Thus, U.S. economic sanction on North Korea is very much alive today. This proves that the real objective of the U.S. administrations has been to gain time and wait for the collapse of the North Korean government. But this policy is full of dangers because it will end up in re-igniting the Korean War with more terrible consequences for both Korean and American people. President Kim Dae-Jung of South Korea, who has been pursuing a "sunshine policy" toward North Korea for some time, is clearly opposed to such a dangerous hard-line policy. His liberal, open policy toward the North finally brought about the historical summit between the two leaders of Korea—Kim Dae-Jung and Kim Jong Il—in Pyongyang, June 13-15, 2000. Conclusion The changed international environment in the post-Cold War era, improved relations between the two Koreas through the historic summit meeting between the two Korean leaders of South and North Korea in June 2000, and the current advantage of South Korea’s economic and military strength over North Korea call forth a new U.S. policy toward Korea. Today South Korea’s annual military budget of about $15 billion is several times greater than that of the North’s. In addition, South Korea’s population is twice that of the North’s, and its GNP is over 20 times greater. However, the Pentagon is still mired in the Cold War mentality, claiming that the U.S. military still needs to be stationed in South Korea to guard against the alleged North Korean military threat. Furthermore, the American military-industrial complex wants to continue the Korean War by putting North Korea on the list of terrorist countries and maintaining some 37,000 troops in South Korea today—wasting about $25 billion each year in overall costs maintaining the outdated military commitment in the Far East.

Decades of antagonism were built on this relationship – ongoing nuclear standoff is a direct product of our decision not to leave after Japanese surrender.
Kang 10 (Kang Jung-Koo, Professor of Sociology at Dongkuk University, “Kang Jung-Koo,” Interview conducted by John Hines, http://utnifdebate.blogspot.com/)

Professor Kang: In the year 2005 which marked both the 60th anniversary of Korea’s liberation from Japan and the 60th anniversary of a foreign military presence by the United States and thus our forced division, I began arguing that we should celebrate this 60th anniversary with a withdrawal of foreign military forces from South Korea. Also, during this time I wrote an article on the Internet about the General MacArthur statue in Incheon where I argued it was time to get rid of that statue because he was at the forefront of our country’s division. In fact, he advocated dropping as many as 26 Atomic bombs on North Korea; therefore we should not continue to honor his memory with this statue. I have also been very publicly critical of the US military’s actions during the Korean War. For all of these reasons I am now being prosecuted for violating our National Security Law. My main argument is that if there had been no intervention by the US into the internal affairs of liberated Korea at the end of World War II, Korea would never have been divided and we would not have had to suffer the tragedy of the Korean War. IF the US did not intervene in the Korean War, the war would have ended in a month without the killing of as many as 3 million Koreans and 1 million Chinese. IF there had been no intervention in 1950 during the first period of the Korean War, we would not have suffered such a tragedy. The Korean War was a war of reunification and would have ended quickly and resulted in a unified Korea. The professor explains to me that his case has gone all the way to the South Korean Supreme Court and he has received a suspended sentence of two years in jail for advancing this argument in his academic writings and public advocacies. He is currently awaiting the decision of the Supreme Court to discover whether or not he will serve prison time for arguing that the US military should never have intervened in the internal affairs of Korea. At this point I ask him to elaborate and explain the historical hypothetical he has advanced. Professor Kang: The US is 90% responsible for the division of Korea. If there had been no forced division there would never have been a civil war. By 1950 both the US and Russian militaries had left Korea (the US military left in June 1949, and Russia’s military left in December 1948). On July 1st, 1950 the US military returned to Korea in order to intervene in our civil war. Therefore the civil war is a product of interference by foreign powers. Even though Korea has been divided for over 65 years, I think most Koreans (both North and South) want a re-unified Nation. We have the same identity. Even though there are many differences between South and North in the way of culture, ways of living and thinking we still have a shared identity and desire to be reunited. Prior to our forced division, we had been a united country since the 7th century, that’s over 1400 years as a single country and people. The story of the “lovely couple” can be used here to understand Korea’s current struggle. When a husband and wife are married, they are “ONE,” but in this story the neighborhood gangster intervened and forced them to be divorced (the US is of course this neighborhood gangster). The majority of Koreans want to be reunited as a “lovely couple” again through peaceful means. My question: “Can you elaborate on your writings about the US military government in Korea collaborating with pro-Japanese Koreans after World War II? Specifically, how do you think the US military occupation of Korea resembles the Japanese occupation of Korea prior to World War II?” Professor Kang: If there had been no intervention, the liberated Korea would have cleaned up the pro-Japanese national traitors. In 1946 North Korea acted to root out the pro-Japanese influence in their government and society in order to counteract the legacy of Japanese Imperialism. Therefore, the ruling party of North Korea has no legacy of Japanese imperialism and they are able to maintain self-reliance. This rejection of US imperialism for the last 65 years must be understood as a continuation of the struggle against Japanese imperialism. On the contrary, in the South there is an opposite history. When the US entered Korea, they had no friends on the Peninsula that would help them administer their military occupation. When the US wanted South Korea to take a Capitalist route rather than a Socialist route, most of South Korea wanted to have a Socialist system rather than a Capitalist system. In July 1946 the US Military Government in Korea conducted a survey of South Koreans and discovered that 71% of respondents wanted a Socialist system, 7% wanted a Communist system, and only 14% wanted a Capitalist system. If the survey had been conducted in 1945, before the US Military Government in Korea made it clear they were opposed to any form of Communist of Socialist system, I would say that almost 90% of Korean people (both North and South) wanted a Socialist system rather than a capitalist system. That is why the US could not find friends in either the North or the South. The US Military Government needed pro-Japanese national traitors to cooperate with them to help institute a pro-Capitalist regime. For the pro-Japanese, to be friends with the US was the only way to keep their po.wer and status in Korean society. Therefore there emerged a very close alliance between the US military occupation and the pro-Japanese national traitors. This is the reason we had so many small on-going wars (referred to as people’s uprisings) starting in October 1946 and leading up to the Korean War in 1950. In 1946 alone more than 10,000 Koreans were killed by the US occupying forces. These small wars lasted from 1946 to 1950, and because of these wars almost 100,000 Koreans lost their lives. Also important to understand is that the Korean War was not a “war of aggression.” A “war of aggression” is between two separate sovereign countries, but the North and the South are not separate sovereign countries—we are one country, one nation with two different governments. Therefore, this is a civil war. It is true that North Korea mobilized their military and invaded South Korea. They believed the war would end in one or two months without such tragedy. This was an internal conflict; there was no reason for neighbors to intervene in the internal affairs of the “lovely couple.” As I explained we are like a married couple that was forced by the neighborhood gangster to divorce, so it is natural for us to get reunited after the neighborhood gangster has left. My question: “So Professor Kang, what can American high school students do in order to facilitate the process of allowing this ‘lovely couple’ to be reunited?” Professor Kang: Most Americans do not know the real story of our country’s division and the ensuing Korean War. For example, in 2002 I met Thomas Friedman of the New York Times and we talked for about 90 minutes. He later wrote some articles about South Korea and the North Korean nuclear crisis and I was very disappointed to notice that he didn’t appear to know anything about the real story of what is actually going on between North Korea and South Korea. Therefore, we must start by getting to the Real Story of our country’s division, the tragedy of the Korean War, and of the inevitability of North Korea’s development of nuclear powers in order to protect itself against attacks from the United States. In the history of crises on the Korean peninsula since the end of the Korean War, out of 11 crises all but 2 were initiated by United States actions and belligerence towards North Korea. In the face of the US military aggression what can North Korea do? They do not have the money to cope with South Korean and United States military spending; therefore the most economic way to defend themselves is to develop nuclear bombs. Only a nuclear bomb can guarantee North Korea’s security in such a situation. When North Korea first announced the test of their nuclear weapons, the official announcement of North Korea stated that when the hostile policies of the United States towards North Korea cease they would be willing to give up their nuclear weapons. The first step is to get American citizens to know all these true details of US involvement in Korea. If they know they will realize there is no reason for the US military to be here in the Korean peninsula. The Korean peninsula is not safe because of US military presence; instead it is “the most dangerous place in the world” because of the US military presence. So the conclusion is clear, the first step is to get the US military out of Korea. Then, we (North and South) can refuse the offensive military orientation towards each other and transition towards defensive oriented military systems and we can begin to work towards peaceful reunification and cooperation between North and South.

The fear of a Red Spread was unfounded – a unified, moderate Korea would have come in the divided country’s place.
Cumings 5 (Bruce Cumings, history professor at UChicago, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 198) ncp

With fifty years of hindsight – or even five, in 1950 – we can imagine a cauterizing fire that would have settled Korea’s multitude of social and political problems caused by the pressure cooker of colonial rule and instant “liberation,” a purifying upheaval that might have been pretty awful, but nothing like the millions of lives lost in 1950-53, or the thousands in the April Revolution of 1960 or the Kwangju rebellion of 1980. Had the Americans and the Russians quit Korea, a leftist regime would have taken over quickly, and it would have been a revolutionary nationalist government that, over time, would have moderated and rejoined the world community – as did China, as Vietnam is doing today. But we have to imagine this, because Americans do not understand the point of social revolutions, never having had one themselves; to allow this to happen would have meant that Hodge and many other Americans would have occupied Korea only to “turn it over to the communists.”

This was a critical branching point in our consideration of military presence in Korea
Kang 3 (Kang Jung-Koo, Professor of Sociology at Dongkuk University, “The Failure of Ch’inilch’ongsan and Obstruction of Nation’s Future” The Review of Korean Studies Vol. 6, No. 1 (51-84))

Fifty-seven years ago, in August, 1945, Choson was liberated from Japanese imperial rule. The liberation has two historical significances. First, it meant that the Korean people secured liberation from the direct colonial rule of" Imperial Japan. Second, it meant that an opportunity had arrived for the Korean people to build their own new society. However, after liberation, Choson was occupied by the US military for 3 years, thus, the Korean people railed to achieve liberation on both counts. Although Koreans achieved the first meaning of liberation after the founding of the Rhee Syngman regime, they never achieved the second meaning of liberation, not to this day. Therefore, 57 years on since liberation, the Korean people are liberated, but it is not genuine. A further analysis of the characteristics of the liberation period in relation to the two definitions mentioned above is as follows. First, this period saw the creation of a new space of social revolution where new history could be created with a complete break with past history. Second, it was a period of transformation in national history, a crossroads of history so to speak. A critical historical period or transformational period is a period when various historical paths intersect with each other, and taking one particular path will determine the future for a nation for a long time. Third, in this sense, the liberation period is what Perry Anderson called a period of genesis determinism. This is to say that genesis has more determining power than the current structure and factors contributing to the flow of history. Fourth, in order to be completely disconnected with past history, it is critical that the vestiges of colonialism, which have molded and solidified past history into the present, be dealt with. In other words, ch'inilch'ongsan and the overcoming of the division are the most important tasks. Nevertheless, in this critical period of liberation, having been detoured from the path toward ch'inilch'ongsan, the correct path, Choson society was forced to walk the historical path of division and war by foreign powers. As a result, the redress and punishment of pro- Japanese collaborators, one of the most important national tasks and the desire of the Korean 0people, ran aground and remained an intrinsic limitation that constantly hindered the progress of Choson history.

The dominant narrative of American intervention has subverted and simplified historical relationships.
Liem 7 (Ramsay Liem, Department of Psychology, Boston College, 'Silencing Historical Trauma: The Politics and Psychology of Memory and Voice', Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology, 13: 2, 153-174)

In their edited volume, Perilous Memories: The Asia-Pacific War(s), T. Fujitani, Geoffrey White, and Lisa Yoneyama (2001) introduce the idea of “critical remembering” as an oppositional force to master narratives about World War II in the Pacific theater crafted by the allied and axis states. They frame this historical remembering as a struggle to preserve “global, national, and masculinist narratives of the major warring powers” (p. 3) in the face of marginalized memories, e.g., gendered, ethnic, local, that could subvert dominant historical readings. The nation’s investment in preserving its account of history, “…the urgent and intense political stakes involved in remembering wars” (p. 2), presupposes contested readings of the past, “perilous memories” that must be forgotten or otherwise silenced to preserve the claims of the state. In the case of the Korean War, the suppression of alternative voices is fostered by pervasive state and popular narratives of the war as “forgotten”, “unknown”, a heroic victory over Communism, an affirmation of the United States as savior of South Korea (Ehrhart, 2001; Levine, 2001)2. The reference to the Korean War as “forgotten” is probably the most familiar to Americans. Originating in such classic works as Clay Blair’s Korea: The Forgotten War (1987), this epitaph nearly erases the first hot war of the Cold War from the United States historical record. Furthermore, forgetting the Korean War distances the nation from responsibility for its continuing aftermath, in particular the division of the Korean peninsula and the ever-present threat of renewed military conflict. Fixing the Korean War in collective consciousness as “forgettable” or as the rescue of South Koreans from international Communism also displaces alternative readings of that conflict. However, personal witness to war from marginalized sites occupied by women, ethnic minorities, civilians, children and others, or what Fujitani et al. (2001) refer to as “critical remembering”, has “the potential to disrupt the dominant paradigms” (Diaz, 2001, p. 159). In his description of the challenge to Japanese and United States national narratives about the Battle of Okinawa, Masaie Ishihara (2001) illustrates the value of oral history as a counter voice to the master narrative. It can be said that the collection of oral histories has become a philosophical and cultural movement in Okinawa, the ultimate purpose being to keep alive in the ‘public memory’ a knowledge of what happened in the war….In the process of recording the survivors’ war experiences, many things have been learned and an area of common ground is that the Japanese Army did nothing to protect the lives of the citizens of its own country… (pp. 97–98). Korean American Critical Remembering Over a half a century has passed since the end of active fighting in the Korean War and Korean American survivors have established new lives in the United States. One might reasonably expect that these conditions, in combination with the national narrative of the Korean War as forgotten, might have eroded Korean American memories of this conflict. Lisa Lowe (1996) suggests that enfranchisement in the United States for Asian immigrants requires “forgetting the history of war in Asia and adopting the national historical narrative that disavows the existence of the American imperial project…(and) acceding to a political fiction of equal rights that is generated through the denial of history…” (p. 27). The pressure to acquiesce to the nation’s dominant self-image is experienced by all citizens, especially during periods of national crisis, as evident in the United States following the tragedies of September 11, 2001. But for immigrants, especially racial, ethnic minorities whose political and social statuses are tenuous, the ideological authority of the state can be particularly insidious. For Korean American survivors of the war, it means added pressure to suspend talk about the Korean conflict and to forget. On the other hand, some psychological research suggests that external cues that instruct the individual to avoid focusing on a past experience may actually enhance rather than lessen memory rehearsal. “Institutional forgetting…and collective silence as a whole end up by reinforcing the strength of both individual and collective level informal memories” (Marques, Paez, & Serra, 1997, p. 257). Findings from a recent Danish study (Bernsten & Thomsen, 2005) also indicate that historical events invested with strong personal identity and emotion can be retained in memory for considerably longer periods of time and with remarkable accuracy for contextual features than previously assumed. In this work, survivors of the Danish occupation and liberation during World War II not only recalled factual information associated with the onset of these events with unexpected veracity, but those with reported ties to the resistance offered the most vivid and accurate memories. While there is little question that talk among Korean Americans about the Korean War is rare, it is apparent from the oral history interviews that the absence of dialogue is not an indication of the loss of memory. Two interview excerpts illustrate the detail and clarity of Korean War memories. Helen Kyungsook Daniels was born in Manchuria during the period of Japanese colonization of Korea. Her family fled Pyongyang in northern Korea for the relative safety ofManchuria and then returned at the conclusion ofWorldWar II. Following years of refugee status in the south during the Korean War, she met and married a U.S. serviceman and came to the United States in the 1960s. Her account of fleeing from the north coincides with the rapid retreat of allied forces three months after their fall 1950 offensive into North Korea. We left North Korea on December 5th, 1950. I was 16 years old. Americans came to our town and three days later, they were pulling back. So my brother-in-law said we gotta move out. My sister had three children. They put one on my back. They said they’re going to have war in the city, so we have to get out. Our town was a ghost town. No one was there. When we crossed the river, the Taedong River, there was a canoe. But there were too many people. The canoe was so full, water started coming in. They started pushing us, breaking the ice. People were screaming, hollering.We crossed over that way and the whole body got wet. It was freezing. I don’t know how far we went.We slept in some town, but it was a ghost town, too. Everybody had left. Houses were all empty. So that’s how we went everyday.Walking, you know, early, 6:00 in the morning. When it got dark, we all went over to a village. If it was far away, you got better food. Otherwise, if it was close by the main road, there’s very little food left. So, we were like that for 28 days, walking. My sister’s baby was crying because it was a newborn baby. Her mother-in-law keeps saying, we’re going to have to throw her away because she’s afraid that Communists or someone will hear her. So she says, we’re going to have to throwher away. We all came to the Imjin River; there’s American soldiers, Korean soldiers, and Korean women police, they’re all there. They all point guns at us, saying you can’t come. So, we said, “Why!?” and they said, “because of North Korean soldiers, you can’t trust who’s a soldier, who’s not.” So everybody is standing, screaming, hollering. Then everybody says, either we die here or die crossing. It was all ice.When my brother-in-law tried to crawl over, he sank in the water with his son on his back. I wanted to jump over and help them but ten people behind me pulled me back and said, “you’re too heavy. You’re gonna break it and then we can’t cross!” I didn’t listen. I just jumped over and fell down.My nephew had one of those hats that ties at the neck. I could only grab that and while I’m pulling him up, he’s screaming, crying. I’m choking him, you know. Then, one of the GIs came over and helped me pull him andmy brother-in-law up. Then they started searching all over our bodies to see if we had any weapons. This was Christmas Day. Chun Suntae was a first-year high school student when the war broke out. His hometown was Kaesong, a border town within the southern zone before the war but ceded to the north in the armistice agreement. Within 6months of the outbreak of full-scale war, he was separated from his family and survived on his own until the war ended. He has been a resident in northern California for four decades. Because the Americans bombed the city every day, we moved away from Kaesong about 8 or 10 kilometers. One day we remembered chickens we left at our home, so I went to Kaesong to get the chickens. Then there was an airplane sound, so I ran to the tunnel my father and I had dug. Then airplanes, about 2, 3, or 4 of them, with propellers, came and for the first time I saw, what do they call it, carpet-bombing. They just all lined up, from the south to the north and they covered the whole area. Then the airplanes circled around and came back, east to west. I thought what they dropped was pamphlets...I thought that was it because white stuff kept falling down everywhere. No sound, no bombing sound, just a kind of dull thud each time…then I found out it was not pamphlets - it was a parachuted bomb. It goes 5 to 10 meters into the ground. Then, all the airplanes left; and a little bit later, there was one of the largest explosions I ever heard, right in the middle of the city, like an atomic bomb you see in the pictures, huge dust and smoke rising high up into the sky. I thought, what the hell was that?! There’s no airplane and there’s a big explosion. We didn’t think about it as a time bomb because we never saw it before. That’s a ghost plane, a ghost bomber or something. Anyway, 5 minutes later, another bomb exploded again; then, every five minutes for hours. I mean, it was so scary. Now, there were people hiding downtown in the rich people’s basements, 20, 30, 40 people, young kids and old people, you know, and wives. In many cases time bombs dropped right next to them but they didn’t know what it was. They only heard a thud and sometimes came out. So they are all buried alive. While memories like these rarely circulate in the community and wider society, it is evident from these excerpts that the proscription to forget has not purged the war from private remembering. Just the opposite appears to be the case, consistent with psychological evidence that deeply salient events, even in a context that encourages forgetting, can remain accessible in private memory. Furthermore, these recollections contain other elements of critical remembering beyond their challenge to the popular narrative of the Korean War as forgotten. In both cases they raise questions about and humanize the “collateral” damage sustained by ordinary Koreans as the result of the massive aerial bombing campaigns that marked the first year of the war, some of which have only recently come to light as the result of persistent investigative reporting3. Other memories upset the representation of the Korean War as the rescue of South Koreans from an alien, Communist north. At the height of McCarthyism in the face of huge military and civilian casualties and a war that ended in stalemate, it would have been untenable not to portray the South Korean people as singularly anti-Communist. Yet, the memories of some contest this narrative. Lee Kyung-Hui was 6 years old when the war broke out. Her father was a member of the South Korean constabulary before, during, and after the war in the Chiri Mountain area, an important base for the South Korean resistance movement since the end of World War II. South Korean guerilla forces sympathetic to the North played a prominent role in the conflict before and during the hot war. 3In September 1999, the Associated Press published a dramatic account of the massacre of hundreds of Korean civilians by American soldiers at No Gun Ri, authored by Charles Hanley, Sang-Hun Choe, andMarthaMendoza. It is now widely acknowledged that No Gun Ri is likely only one of many such incidents. For a fuller account of this Pulitzer Prize winning piece for investigative reporting, see Hanley, Choe, and Mendoza (2002), The bridge at No Gun Ri. There’s one thing that happened during the KoreanWar that I certainly recall because my father was a police chief in one province in the Chiri-san area. There were lots of guerrillas in the mountains and he was constantly involved in combat. According to my mother, he was very ambivalent. I think in a way, he could understand where those people were coming from and was very much distraught with what he was doing. But I think that he was, in a way, convinced that he had to do it to end the war. My mother used to tell me about feeding a young lady who was captured in the Chiri Mountains. She probably was going to be tried and put in jail but she was very hungry and so my mother fed her and she felt really sorry for that young lady. She was one of the guerrilla members in the mountains. She was captured and brought to my house because she was in bad shape, so starved—so my mother cared for her. After the war, in the ’70s and ’80s, famous novelists wrote a lot of stories about how these people died for Communism and their idealism. They were hoping that the communist or socialist country would be a utopia. But they didn’t know what they were getting into. My mother…genuinely understood their idealism, so that it was very painful for her to reflect on how these young people died. Sung Eun Park was a teenager during the war. Her father was “taken north” by retreating North Korean soldiers following theU.S./UN recapture of Seoul early in the fighting and most likely died during flight. While no friend of Communism, Mrs. Park’s feelings toward North Koreans during the war were decidedly complex, as reflected in the following brief comment. My brother did not want to join the army (South Korean). He said, ‘How can I fight; two boys shoot each other, one is from the north, the other the south. But they are not our enemies. They are like brothers. What kind of people do that? How come this is happening to our country even after the Japanese are gone?’ My mother and I were the same way; that’s why we were always against this war, really. My mother was a strong complainer. She said, ‘so I have to fight my brother, this is my own brother. How can I do that?’ These memories do not square fully with the image of America as champion of South Korea in her struggle against the onslaught of an alien, Communist people to the north. They suggest a more complicated civil conflict in which suffering may well have been intensified for some ordinary civilians by familiarity and identification with the enemy. These recollections also harbor perilous memories for a master narrative of the Korean War that frames the fighting strictly in ideological terms.

This counterfactual analysis is the only way to effectively understand political and economic trends in international relations – the 1AC is an academic process, a historical corrective that is necessary to effective moral and political change.
Lebow 2k (Richard Ned Lebow, professor of int’l relations at the London School of Economics, Centennial Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “What's So Different about a Counterfactual?” World Politics, Volume 52, Number 4, July, pp. 550-585)

Counterfactuals can combat the deeply rooted human propensity to see the future as more contingent than the past, reveal contradictions in our belief systems, and highlight double standards in our moral judgments. Counterfactuals are an essential ingredient of scholarship. They help determine the research questions we deem important and the answers we find to them. They are also necessary to evaluate the political, economic, and moral benefits of real-world outcomes. These evaluations in turn help drive future research. RECEPTIVITY TO CONTINGENCY International Relations theorists seek to understand the driving forces behind events; they usually do so after the fact, when the outcome is known. The process of backward reasoning tends to privilege theories that rely on a few key variables to account for the forces allegedly responsible for the outcomes in question. For the sake of theoretical parsimony, the discipline generally favors independent variables that are structural in nature (for example, balance of power, state structure, size and nature of a coalition). The theory-building endeavor has a strong bias toward deterministic explanations and on the whole downplays understandings of outcomes as the products of complex, conjunctional causality.19 A recent survey of international relations specialists revealed that those scholars who were most inclined to accept the validity of theories (for example, power transition, nuclear deterrence) and theory building as a scholarly goal were the most emphatically dismissive of plausible-world counterfactuals. They were also most likely to invoke second-order counterfactuals to get developments diverted by counterfactuals back on the track.20 In retrospect, almost any outcome can be squared with any theory unless the theory is rigorously specified. The latter requirement is rarely met in the field of international relations, and its deleterious effect is readily observed in the ongoing debate over the end of the cold war. Various scholars, none of whose theories predicted a peaceful end to that conflict, now assert that this was a nearly inevitable corollary of their respective theories.21We observe a similar phenomenon in studies of Middle Eastern politics. Developments that seemed almost unthinkable before they happened—Sadat’s trip to Jerusalem, the Pales- tinian-Israeli moves toward peace—are subsequently described as having been overdetermined by structural causes, particularly shifts in the relative balance of power.22 The disciplinary tendency to privilege structural explanations is reinforced by the “certainty of hindsight bias.”23 Baruch Fischoff has demonstrated that “outcome knowledge” affects our understanding of the past by making it difficult for us to recall that we were once unsure about what was going to happen. Events deemed improbable by experts (for example, peace between Egypt and Israel, the end of the cold war) are often considered “overdetermined” and all but inevitable after they have occurred.24 By tracing the path that appears to have led to a known outcome, we diminish our sensitivity to alternative paths and outcomes. We may fail to recognize the uncertainty under which actors operated and the possibility that they could have made different choices that might have led to different outcomes. Many psychologists regard the certainty-of-hindsight effect as deeply rooted and difficult to overcome. But the experimental literature suggests that counterfactual intervention can assist people in retrieving and making explicit their massive but largely latent uncertainty about historical junctures, that is, to recognize that they once thought, perhaps correctly, that events could easily have taken a different turn. The proposed correctives use one cognitive bias to reduce the effect of another. Ross et al. exploited the tendency of people to inflate the perceived likelihood of vivid scenarios to make them more responsive to contingency. People who were presented with scenarios describing possible life histories of post-therapy patients evaluated these possibilities as more likely than did members of the control group who were not given the scenarios. This effect persisted even when all the participants in the experiment were told that the post-therapy scenarios were entirely hypothetical.25 Philip E. Tetlock and the author conducted a series of experiments to test the extent to which counterfactual unpacking leads foreign policy experts to upgrade the contingency of international crises. In the first experiment one group of experts was asked to assess the inevitability of the Cuban missile crisis. A second group was asked the same questions but was given three junctures at which the course of the crisis might have taken a different turn. A third group was given the same three junctures and, in addition, three arguments for why each of them was plausible. Judgments of contingency varied in proportion to the degree of counterfactual unpacking.26 There is every reason to expect that scholars exposed to counterfactuals and, better yet, forced to grapple with their theoretical consequences will also become more open to the role of contingency in key decisions and events.

We are academics, not policymakers, and counterfactual history is crucial to effective decisionmaking ability
Gini-Newman 3 (Garfield Gini-Newman, Professor and Lecturer @ The Ontario Institute for Studies in Education of the University of Toronto, primary areas of research involve the pedagogy of critical thinking and ways to embed critical thinking in classrooms from kindergarten to graduate school, “Counterfactual History: Good Teaching Bad History.” Rapport, 16, http://www.ohassta.org/adobefiles/rap_Counterfactual%20HistoryRapport%20Article%20Part%202.pdf)

Counterfactual History and Critical Thinking: So far our focus has been on the use of counterfactual scenarios as a historical tool. But not all our students are going to become historians. In fact only a select few will even study history in a post-secondary setting. Counterfactualism is an excellent way to engage all learners and provide them with the tools to be effective thinkers regardless of their educational and career paths. Consider how doing counterfactual history fits with Roland Case’s Critical Thinking Model. Case identifies five key attributes of exemplary critical thinkers: habits of mind, thinking strategies, background knowledge, conceptual knowledge and criteria. Successful use of counterfactual history draws upon each of these six key attributes. Habits of Mind: Being open-minded, persistent and flexible are all habits of mind vital to good critical thinking. Studying history can become mired in a plethora of dates, names and events but the use of counterfactualism requires that we are open to new challenges and are flexible in our thinking, that we can restate problems and look for connections with known features. Thinking Strategies: Good critical thinkers not only are flexible and open-minded but also have a variety of thinking strategies at their disposal ranging from simply restating a problem in your own words to more elaborate strategies such as using a decision- making model to arrive at a conclusion. Counter- factual history provides an excellent opportunity for students to learn, practice and apply a variety of thinking strategies. Mindmaps and concept maps are both powerful strategies students can use to assist them in seeing the connections vital to making sense of history and are particularly useful in imagining an alternate history. Background Knowledge: Roland Case reminds us that: “It should be obvious that we cannot think critically about a topic if we know little or nothing about it. Yet this fact is overlooked if we treat critical 8thinking as a set of general skills that can be applied regardless of context.” Hence, teaching critical thinking in a vacuum is not merely ineffective, it may be counter-productive. Using counterfactual history provides an opportunity for teachers to integrate both historical content and good critical thinking. Students must have a sound understanding of the historical events as well as their future repercussions. Further, they must have an understanding of the connections between the immediate events studied and related events and be able to see causal relationships. Adequate background knowledge of the specific events and of the more broad implications is vital for students to be able to play in the world of counterfactualism. Conceptual Knowledge: In order for students to think deeply about the causal relationships and the implications of historical events necessary to effectively dabble in counterfactual history, they develop a conceptual understanding of meta-cognition. This entails acquiring the vocabulary of thinking so that they can accurately use words to identify or recognize key distinctions. Case’s framework for critical thinking reminds us that “if students cannot distinguish a premise from a conclusion or do not know what a reason is, they are less likely to provide sound justifications for their opinions. Knowing the difference between ‘cause’ and ‘correlation’ is crucial when analyzing objects and events. Without this conceptual distinction students are more likely to incorrectly view a factor that simply occurs concurrently with another (e.g., an ore sample may contain granite and be smooth) as a factor that influences the other.” Counterfactual history, by its very nature, challenges students to develop an understanding of historical cause and effect, to see trends over time and to focus on the big ideas of history while considering how micro-history may have had significant consequences. Criteria: Critical thinking is essentially making judgments in light of criteria. It is not sufficient for students to merely proclaim their likes or dislikes or to state their opinion on an issue devoid of any legitimate rationale. Instead, students need to develop the ability to deliberate on issues in a thoughtful manner. By having students work with criteria, they acquire good critical thinking skills and the ability to effectively formulate and defend a point of view on an issue. Above I have suggested seven criteria for the effective use of counterfactual history (see Guidelines for Using Counterfactual History). Using the guidelines as criteria, students can assess counterfactual histories they encounter, they can self- assess historical events they would like to consider for counterfactual treatment, and they assist fellow students in testing the validity of the counterfactual scenario they have created.

This is the most relevant methodology for security studies – analytic processes fail without rigorous historical examination.
Hendrickson 8 (Noel Hendrickson, Assistant Professor in the Information Analysis Program at James Madison University, Director of the Institute for National Security Analysis, “Counterfactual Reasoning: A Basic Guide for Analysis,” in the Proteus Monograph Series, Volume 2, Issue 5, October)

Strategies in intelligence and national security have substantial consequences, and thus it is only reasonable that analysts are cautious about including the lively possibilities that they might imagine. For creativity to be relevant to intelligence there has to be a way to incorporate it reliably into the analytic process, which requires that there be a rigorous way to do so. The system of counterfactual reasoning that is proposed here is intended to do just that. It offers a structured way to rigorously assess alternate possibilities and their consequences. It requires analysts to think creatively, but also to connect their creative thinking to a series of precise techniques so that it never becomes speculation. Thus, counterfactual reasoning offers a third important benefit to analysis and strategy: a way to rigorously employ creative thinking. Facilitating causal analysis, mitigating deterministic biases, and incorporating creativity are all valuable purposes for counterfactual reasoning. However, none of them are the most critical function of counterfactual reasoning in analysis and strategy. In fact, this work regards all three of these purposes to be of secondary importance. Instead, the most vital purpose of counterfactual reasoning is to ground strategic assessment. This relates directly to the first major proposal about counterfactual reasoning: the Strategic Presumption of Counterfactuals (i.e., All strategies, and analyses of them, are grounded in a series of counterfactual claims about alternate possibilities, their consequences, and the relationships between them). Counterfactual reasoning is essential to analysis and strategy most fundamentally because all strategic assessment and/or decision making presupposes counterfactual claims.

If we don’t learn from history we’re doomed to repeat it.
Tetlock and Belkin 96 (Philip Tetlock, professor of psychology at University of Pennsylvania, Woodrow Wilson Award for best book published on government, politics, or international affairs and Robert E. Lane Award for best book in political psychology, both from American Political Science Association in 2005, and Aaron Belkin, Associate Professor of Political Science at UC-Santa Barbara, “Counterfactual Thought Experiments in World Politics: Logical, Methodological, and Psychological Perspectives”, p.2)

The ferocity of the skeptics is a bit unnerving. Moreover, they are right that counterfactual inference is dauntingly difficult. But they are wrong that we can avoid counterfactual reasoning at acceptable cost. And they are wrong that all counterfactuals are equally “absurd” because they are equally hypothetical. We can avoid counterfactuals only if we eschew all causal inference and limit ourselves to strictly noncausal narratives of what actually happened (no smuggling in causal claims under the guise of verbs such as “influenced,” “responded,” “triggered,” “precipitated,” and the like). Putting to the side whether any coherent and compelling narrative can be “noncausal,” this prohibition would prevent us from drawing the sorts of “lessons from history” that scholars and policy makers regularly draw on such topical topics as the best ways to encourage economic growth, to preserve peace, and to cultivate democracy. Without counterfactual reasoning, how could we know whether state intervention accelerated growth in country x, whether deterrence prevented an attack on country y, or whether the courage of a young king saved country z from sliding back into dictatorship? Counterfactual reasoning is a prerequisite for any form of learning from history. To paraphrase Robert Fogel’s reply to the critics of “counterfactualizing” in the 1960s, everyone does it and the alternative to an open counterfactual model is a concealed one.

Our interpretation of fiat: debate is about imagining the enactment of a plan. Within academic debates, there are key branching points in history in which we can fiat counterfactual change for the purpose of comparison and analysis.
Broda-Bahm 95 (Kenneth Broda-Bahm, Assistant Professor and Director of Forensics in the Department of Speech and Mass Communication at Towson State University, “Counterfactual possibilities: constructing counter-to-fact causal claims,” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate 16, 73-85)

Branching Points In finding ways in which the real history of the evaluated object or event could have made a transition in the direction of the counterfactual under consideration, attention may turn to historical "branching points' or points at which alternative paths of development seem particularly plausible. Jon Elster (1978) addresses the issue of the historical counterfactual as a matter which is intimately tied to actual history. In assessing the causal relations surrounding a given event, he says "we are free to conduct an imaginary experiment and assume that the event in question never took place, and to ask what would then have been the further course of history " (p. 5). This freedom, however, is not wholly given over to imagination. Elster's central requirement is "that a counterfactual antecedent must be capable of insertion into the real past" (p. 184). Restated, this entails not only that we find a point in history at which we can fiat the counterfactual change, but that such a point is, historically, a "branching point," or "a point in time at which such analytical separations might seem more plausible than at other times" {Engerman, 1980, p. 164). As a comparative concept, the notion of a branching point creates a basis for assessing the appropriateness of a comparative world. For Elster (1978), the closeness of the branching point bears directly upon the assertability of the counterfactual claim: If, for example, the antecedent may be inserted into the real world at t, whereas we must go back to an earlier time t, in order to find a branching point from which a permitted trajectory leads to a state where both the antecedent and the consequent obtain, then the counterfactual is not assertable. Take the statement: 'If it had not been for slavery, the GNP of the US South in 1860 would have been twice as high as it actually was.' This statement would not be assertable if a non-slave South could stem from a branching point no later than, say, 1750, whereas a GNP of the required size would require counterfactual changes going back to 1"?00. (p. 191) The notion of a 'nearest possible world" then is given meaning in the measurable units of time: a counterfactual is assertable if and only if an antecedent leads to the consequent when inserted into history at the closest possible branching point. The further back we have to go in order to insert the possible state in the real history," Elster notes, "the greater is the distance to that state" (p. 191). This historical amendment to the general Stalnaker-Lewis requirement for the closeness of the possible world has the potential to play a significant role in combating the ambiguity in counterfactuals containing alternate pasts. As a social historian, Elster's reasoning focuses on utility. It is. at a bask level, most useful to conceive of the absence (or presence) of a given condition by looking at the most recent realistic possibility for that absence (or presence) in our real history. These real historical branching points presumably are more directly applicable to our own experience than would be a contrived purely speculative solution, no matter how 'close.' While it imparts greater clarity, Elster's requirement of counterfactual insertion into a real past has not escaped criticism. Steven Lukes (1980) calls the requirement "patently excessive" (p. 149) arguing that there are many counterfactual". which would resist insertion into a real past (e.g.. If Trotsky held Stalin's post...) but which would be interesting and useful nonetheless. Lukes' point taken, it remains clear that when a counterfactual condition it capable of insertion into a real past, then the counterfactual claim which employs that insertion at the closest possible point retains a higher level of assert ability then claims which envision insertion at a more distant, less plausible point. In addition, it must be noted that the notion of plausibility is not without problems: it is quite likely that there will be no single point which is unambiguously the only possible point or the most possible point. In an adversary setting though there is no need for an ultimate answer. The branching point becomes a creature of discourse: a construct that is supported to greater or lesser degrees by arguments relating to the plausibility of the alternative. As a refinement to our answer, the 'Branching Points" solution holds promise. We are no longer simply asked to remove the evaluated element and hold all else constant. Nor are we asked to simply chose a point in history. Rather, we are directed to answer the question, 'what was the most recent point at which the condition under evaluation could have been avoided?' This question cannot be answered with the precision of mathematics, but only within the vagaries of discourse and argument. Nonetheless, it does provide a better foundation for argument on the given proposition type than the other possibilities.

The word “should” in the resolution can be interpreted both incrementally and optimally – the resolution does not ask whether we should reduce our military presence in the future, it asks whether military presence is optimal.
Broda-Bahm 99 (Kenneth Broda-Bahm, Assistant Professor and Director of Forensics in the Department of Speech and Mass Communication at Towson State University, Contemporary Argumentation and Debate 20, 1-23)

Fiat and Counterplan Ground. Quite apart from the issue of whether and when the affirmative team can fiat, questions relating to the availability and content of negative fiat also have been very troublesome. Often, negative fiat has been justified on the basis of pragmatic considerations such as reciprocity, a need to defend something other than the status quo, or a preference for considering policy models other than those typically embraced by the resolution., Missing from this analysis is an argumentative grounding for negative fiat: What creates relevance for the negative team's act of proposing an alternative? What conditional statement is negative fiat answering? At least in the case of the conventionally-phrased policy resolution, there are two possible answers to this question, depending on what is meant by the auxiliary verb "should." Perkins has argued that "should" has an incremental sense, meaning that an action would be an improvement on current conditions, and an optimal sense, meaning that an action constitutes the best possible response to a situation (143). Contrasting the incremental "I should go to the movies" with the optimal "I should join the Army," Perkins argues that the statements differ in the comparative base that is suggested. Incrementally justified actions carry an implied comparison to the status quo while optimally justified actions are compared to the universe of other, presumably competitive, options. Perkins concludes that there ought to be no one single, correct use of "should," and that the definition of this term should depend, as other definitions depend, on the choice and the advocacy of the affirmative. If that is the case, then the choice of a meaning for "should" has clear implications for fiat. If we assume an incremental use of "should," then the argument that we "should expand civil rights protection" is taken to mean that expanding such protection is better than what we are doing now. If counterfactualization springs from necessity, then there is no fiat for the opponent of such a claim. Negative fiat would be superfluous if the incremental "should" only suggests a comparison between the resolution's counterfactual antecedent and the present world as we know it. Viewed another way, the nearest possible world involving non-enaction of the affirmative's policy would always be the present world, because the least change is always no change. If, on the other hand, we follow the more common practice of assuming that "should" is intended optimally, then the clearest argumentative rationale for negative fiat is that it addresses an opportunity cost of affirmation (see Branham). The alternative that we must forgo is relevant in evaluating the alternative that is being proposed. With this rationale, negative advocates can be seen as addressing the relevant conditional statement, "If alternatives which compete with the affirmative team's proposal were pursued instead, then the advantages would be greater." Their argument for legitimate fiat then would be as strong as their argument for considering their alternative as an opportunity cost of affirmation. Since affirmative advocates lack an argumentative warrant for proposing changes not contained or required in the resolution's antecedent, the same standard arguably holds for the negative. Constrained by relevance from alterations not contained or required in the resolution's antecedent, negative advocates should only fiat that which competes with resolutionally required elements of the affirmative's plan. If an affirmative, for example, fiats improved civil rights enforcement but does not fiat time of implementation, relying instead on a current political process then their opponents have no warrant for specifying an alternate process by fiating delayed implementation of the affirmative plan. The reason for this is that the only warrant for considering counterfactual alterations by the negative team is to test the optimal value of those counterfactual alterations made by the affirmative team. Negative fiat only gains relevance through competition with that which the affirmative fiats. Thus an affirmative team foreswearing gratuitous fiat regarding implementation details that are not resolutionally required can logically expect the same of the negative.

Our counterfactual answers that question-meeting the mandate of the NSC resolution would permanently end our presence on the peninsula
Wilz 92 (John Wilz, Professor of history emeritus at Indiana University, “United States Policy Vis-à-vis Korea, 1850-1950” Harmon Memorial Lecture Series #35)

Meanwhile, in the spring of 1948, a paper prepared by the National Security Council in Washington, NSC 8, was approved by President Harry S. Truman, and thus became the basic statement of United States policy vis-a-vis Korea. According to NSC 8, the United States should assist the South Koreans in building up their economy and their armed forces. But it categorically rejected the option that the United States "guarantee the political independence and territorial integrity of South Korea, by force of arms. . . against external aggression."50 As for Soviet and American troops, they began to withdraw from Korea in August and September of 1948. But in the face of a new wave of civil disturbances, apparently communist-inspired, officials in Washington directed General Douglas MacArthur, commander of United States forces in the Far East, to deploy a regimental combat team of 7,000 men in South Korea for an indefinite period.51 A short time later, in January of 1949, MacArthur, in response to a query by superiors in Washington, made clear his view that the South Koreans could not turn back an invasion from the north and that the United States should commit no military forces to bolster the South Koreans in the event of an invasion. He went on to say that the Japanese must be conditioned to the prospect of Soviet domination of all of the East Asian mainland.52 Then, in March of 1949, President Truman approved NSC 8/2, an updated statement of American policy respecting Korea. Reiterating the view of American leaders that the aim of Soviet policy in Korea was an eventual takeover of the entire peninsula, NSC 8/2 nonetheless announced that the last American troops, save for a small advisory group that would instruct the ROK army, would be withdrawn from South Korea by June 30, 1949. After departure of its combat soldiers, the Washington government would continue to provide economic, military, and technical assistance to the Republic of Korea. Otherwise, or so it appeared, the ROK would be on its own.53 Over the anguished protest of President Rhee,54 the remaining American combat troops moved out of South Korea in June of 1949. And what should the United States do in the event the North Koreans crashed over the thirty-eighth parallel? In a paper that was transmitted to the State Deparunent on June 27, 1949, officials in the Pentagon made clear their conviction that the United States ought to undertake no armed intervention to rescue South Korea from the clutches of Kim Il-sung.55 Civilian leaders registered no objection to the views of the military chieftains. A few weeks later, in July of 1949, General MacArthur's Far East Command (FECOM) completed Plan CHOW CHOW, FECOM's operational plan in the event of a North Korean invasion of South Korea. As for the possibility of redeploying United States combat troops in Korea, CHOW CHOW contained no provision whatever. In the event of a North Korean invasion of South Korea, FECOM would evacuate to Japan all American civilian and military personnel as well as designated foreign nationals. 56

Plan: The United States federal government should implement the reduction of United States military presence by June 30, 1949 mandated by United States National Security Council Papers NSC-8 and NSC-8/2.