[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Plan – The United States Federal Government should develop satellites that demonstrate space-based solar power.**
==Adv 1 Heg== 
Military reliance on fossil fuels is the root cause of conflict and military overstretch.
Erwin, 2006 (Sandra I., “Energy Conservation Plans Overlook Military Realities,” National Defense Magazine, September, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/issues/2006/September/DefenseWatch.htm]]</span>, accessed 7/7, JDC)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Are skyrocketing oil prices just a temporary drain on the U.S. economy or a lasting national security threat? If one is to draw conclusions from a … corn-derived ethanol. </span>
Overstretch kills heg- unipolarity requires the ability to meet all needs, but our current energy system makes that unsustainable.
Haass, 2005 (Richard N, “The Case for "Integration”, The national interest, http://www.nationalinterest.org/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=Publishing&mod=Publications%3A%3AArticle&mid=1ABA92EFCD 8348688A4EBEB3D69D33EF&tier=4&id=A561B96740654978B3472EFEEB14C84F

The second question …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> many tasks at hand.</span>
An energy crisis is coming- SBSP is key to maintain the world order and stop impending catastrophes.
Draiman 2008 [Jay, “Mandatory Renewable Energy: The Energy Evolution”, Energy Consultant and Energy Development Specialist with over 20 years experience in energy research, http://environment.newscientist.com/channel/earth/energy-fuels/dn12774-pentagon-backs-plan-to-beam-solar-power-from-space.html, DeFilippis]
"We strive to meet the needs …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> catastrophic consequences. </span>
Defense cuts are destroying our military readiness, which is key to our primacy- cutting costs with SPS would free up extra money and solve heg.
Eaglen 11 (Mackenzie, March 3, 2011, “Assessing the Strategic Readiness of the U.S. Armed Forces”, Testimony before The Readiness Subcommittee of The House Committee on Armed Services, http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/03/assessing-the-strategic-readiness-of-the-us-armed-forces)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Death by a Thousand Cuts </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> no longer the case.</span>
SPSB cuts the need for costly resources to be delivered to isolated bases, saving millions and lives.
Smith, 2007 (Colonel M.V. “Coyote” Smith, is a PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK and an expert on spacepower, “The Goal for 2050 and the Build Forward,” Aug. 7, Space Solar Power, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2007/08/07/the-goal-for-2050/]]</span>, accessed 7/7, JDC)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To give you a basis for analysis…s we build bigger systems.</span>
SBSP Solves Heg
Increase of SBSP decreases military fuel reliance- decreases violent attacks
DOD, October 2007, “Space Based Solar Power As An Opportunity For Strategic Security”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">FINDING: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The SBSP Study Group found …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> fossil fuels increases.</span>
Literally no negative scenario can happen in the world of the aff—SBSP solves warming and eliminates the possibility of war.
Morgan 2007 [James, “Ray of Hope on Energy,” Science Notebook, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/homesubmitForm.do]]</span>, July 9, BLS]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These dreams were always</span>…<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> energy-exporting nation.</span>
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adv 2: Energy</span>== 
Dependence of oil drives up prices of consumer goods, prolongs the recession as well as increase terrorist activity.
Major Brian R. Stuart, USAF (April 2007. “Oil and Security Don’t Mix: Why the US can’t Ignore Dependency” pg 1-2)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The issue of United States … American dream.""</span>
Energy (2/7)
A U.S. economic collapse leads to global economic depression
Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, March/April, 2004 America’s Sticky Power, Foreign Policy, Proquest
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Similarly, in the last 60 years…the rest of the world.</span>
Energy (3/7)
Global economic collapse causes extinction
Thomas Bearden, Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), 2000 ("The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly", http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">History bears out that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for many decades.</span>
Energy (4/7)
Increased terrorist activity will lead to extinction
Jennifer Viegas, Discovery News Reporter November 11, 2009 (Discovery News: “Human Extinction: How Could it Happen?” http://news.discovery.com/human/human-extinction-doomsday.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Humans could become extinct</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">escalated terrorism. </span>
Energy (5/7)
SSP solves oil dependence, independently, the impact is great power war and prevents oil shocks.
NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]]</span>)
Overall, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">SBSP offers a hopeful path …to lessen the chance of such conflicts</span>.
Energy (6/7)

Oil shocks ensure extinction.
Richard Heinberg, core faculty member at New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, 2003, p. 230
Today the average US citizen … <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of the biosphere</span>.
Energy (7/7)
SBSP technology creates energy independence.
NSS ‘7 [National Space Society, October, “Space Solar Power—Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm, DeFilippis]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States and the world need to find …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> within economic reach.</span>
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adv 3: Warming</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Scientific consensus proves warming is real and caused by humans</span>.
Suzuki 7/19/10 (David, Chair of the David Suzuki Foundation, is an award-winning scientist, Environmentalist, Science deals blow to deluded climate change deniers, http://www.bclocalnews.com/opinion/98758379.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It must be difficult, … local economie</span><span style="color: #000000;">s.</span>
SPS will solve global energy needs and global warming.

America has failed to act on global warming due to its devaluation of developing countries – this strategy marginalizes the energy-oppressed poor guaranteeing a destruction of their cultures
**Gordon 7 –** Professor of Law at Villanova University
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ruth, “THE CLIMATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: TAKING STOCK: CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE POOREST NATIONS: FURTHER REFLECTIONS ON GLOBAL INEQUALITY, 78 U. Colo. L. Rev. 1559, lexis, dml)</span>
There is no longer any question … //in the hands of others//


And, this strategy will continue – the government will fail to act on global warming until it destroys the lives and cultures of billions in developing states

Gordon 7 – Professor of Law at Villanova University
(Ruth, “THE CLIMATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: TAKING STOCK: CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE POOREST NATIONS: FURTHER REFLECTIONS ON GLOBAL INEQUALITY, 78 U. Colo. L. Rev. 1559, lexis, dml)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sadly, this paper ends … a much warmer world</span>
We will hit the brink by 2030
Stein 6/26/2011 ((Science editor for the magazine the Canadian) http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/home/Frontpage/2007/02/26/01381.html) ja
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Given time lags …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> beneath their base."</span>
Warming causes the Earth’s core to overheat-makes the world go death star.
Dr. Tom J. Chalko, MS, Engineering & PhD, Laser Holography, “Global Warming: Can Earth Explode?” 2002, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bioresonant.com/news.htm]]</span>.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The real danger … no second chance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17.3333px;">SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions</span>.
NSS ’11, National Space Society June 3, 2011, “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/)
<span style="color: #000000;">The United States … our planet</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Even if the plan doesn’t immediately solve-it would facilitate greater research and development that would.
Fan et al ‘10, William Fan, Harold Martin, James Wo, Brian Mak, “Industry and Technology Assesment”, Space Based Solar Power, June 2, 2011, http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">SBSP is environmentally net positive</span> … GigaWatts.
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]