[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harvard 1AC</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 1 is energy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exhaustion of resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By 2100, the number of people ……electrical power generation capability for the world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Starting now is the only way to avoid global energy deprivation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy ……the commercial development of SSP gains importance.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tectonic forces are roiling ……. and indeed the world, cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We’ll isolate two scenarios:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is warming:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s real and human-induced</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-now is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-AR4 = IPCC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1n early 2007, at the time of the publication of ……. next five to ten years, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to human extinction – SPS solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It has become increasingly evident that ……… way that has a chance to make a difference.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solving coal is sufficient to prevent extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hansen 9 - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A year ago, I wrote …rose another 100 ppm.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario two – Resource Conflict</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SSP solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It was a little more than a month ago when …….. pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nansen 10 – Former space engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today we face the compounding ……… we will run out of energy well before 2100."[2]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IPCC (2001) points out that ‘much has ……… will affect regional and international security’ (p. 107).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phil, March, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The expected cost …well as petroleum.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"We become just …of global leadership.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This does not … of unrivalled US primacy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daily explosions in …be equally daunting.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth won’t continue – targeted stimulus is key to reverse substantial headwinds</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tyson 2-7 - former chair of the US President's Council of Economic Advisers, is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Laura, “US policy-makers must fix basic economic problems,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://gulfnews.com/business/opinion/us-policy-makers-must-fix-basic-economic-problems-1.976902]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Output growth in the.. additional fiscal stimulus is warranted.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic collapse is coming now – fiscal stimulus is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Romer 8-14 – Professor of Economics @ Berkeley</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christina, “The Hope That Flows From History,” New York Times, Proquest</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Look more closely…, with the debt over time.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finding: The SBSP Study …by mid‐century and beyond.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US economic decline would collapse the global economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dhungel 9/8/11 ( Kamal Raj Dhungel, Ph.D., Economics, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Associate Professor of Economics, “Is global economy in double-dip recession?”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thehimalayantimes.com/fullNews.php?headline=Is+global+economy+in+double-dip+recession%3F+&NewsID=302126]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The confidence of people …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and emerging economies.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the report …a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1ac Solvency</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clean, efficient and …about the future again.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The spherical concept …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">medium of space.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP can be up and running within one year</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we took a …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">solution here on earth.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As such is …space in Earth orbit.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP is resilient and efficient</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, **PhD in Nuclear Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science DirectFuture systems will …the operational space environment.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand- only SSP solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nansen 10 – Former space engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today we face …well before 2100."[2]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No risk of interference or GEO disruption</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How does a …not disrupt existing services.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transparency and natural barriers prevent weaponization</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Your concern about …the risk of weaponization.</span>


==Empathy 1AC== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Advantage 1 is energy deprivation</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Global energy shortages are coming now, this dooms billions to a life of everyday violence, oppression and poverty—only SSP can meet the demand</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">By 2100, the number of people</span> actually <span style="font-size: 11pt;">using electricity</span> and modern fuels <span style="font-size: 11pt;">will</span> …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> electrical power generation capability for the world</span>.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Enacting US SSP policy now is the only way to avoid global energy deprivation</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy and What to … commercial <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">development of SSP gains importance</span>**</span>.

**US must take responsibility—US action expedites a global transition—stops climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stanislaw 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tectonic forces are roiling the global energy markets: ….</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The US</span>**</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>** and indeed the world, <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">cannot afford to wait</span>//**</span> another 30 years.

**Energy access is fundamental to meeting basic human needs – decreases poverty, allows safe access to cheap food, increases educational attainment, prevents child mortality, limits disease and is a necessary investment for achieving gender equality**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tully 6</span> – PhD from London School of Economics
Stephen Tully, “The Contribution of Human Rights to Universal Energy Access,” Northwestern Journal of International Human Rights, 4.3, Scholar
Although providing essential infrastructure services was omitted … all at an affordable price and on an equitable basis.” 7 3


**Access to energy is a pre-requisite to __any__ equality measures**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bradbrook and Gardam 6</span> – *Adrian, Professor of Law, **Judith, Professor of International Law
“Placing Access to Energy Services within a Human Rights Framework,” Human Rights Quarterly, 28.2, Muse
The lack of access to modern energy services is particularly … without much greater access to improved quality and quantity of energy services."



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Advantage 2 is warming </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">W</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">arming leads to //extinction—//SSP is key</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
It has become increasingly evident that <span class="Underline">facing and solving the multiple …in a significant way that has a chance to make a difference</span>.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is an existential risk – //__quickening__// reductions is key to avoiding extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the … in the best case adaptationto these extremes would mean profoundsocial, cultural and political changes.

**US has a moral obligation to solve warming–it’s modeled and it’s the largest contributor to emissions** 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Harris 2k – Professor of Environmental Studies</span>
Paul G. Harris, professor of international and environmental studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong; “Climate Change and American Foreign Policy,” pp. 3-4
The case of <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the United States is particularly important. … to act first and to act in earnest</span>.

**Global warming risks profound injustice on people of color in the United States and internationally**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Burkett 8 – Professor of Law</span>
Maxine Burkett, Associate Professor, University of Colorado Law School, 2008, “Just Solutions to Climate Change: A Climate Justice Proposal for a Domestic Clean Development Mechanism,” 56 Buffalo L. Rev. 169, Lexis
The profound injustices that inhere in climate change's disproportionate …"fair outcomes will only ever be coincidental." 

**Warming is the largest impact – it requires transition away from current trends in policy making – we must orient ethical questions towards the effects of a transforming climate on the most vulnerable nations in the world – this ethic assures we prevent the annihilation of the most vulnerable**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gordon 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ruth Gordon, Professor of Law at Villinova University, “The Climate of Environmental Justice: Taking Stock: Climate Change and the Poorest Nations: Further Reflections on Global Inequality”. Colorado Law Review, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There is no longer any question that the earth's…</span>of the North, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">or a slow death in ecologically vulnerable and technologically lacking low-income nations</span>.


**Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.**

**Perspective-taking __requires__ an imagination of our decisions on future-selves**
-this is a defense of fiat, and of future-focused thinking
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Krznaric 10 – PhD in Sociology from Oxford</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roman, PhD in Sociology from Oxford, founding faculty member of The School of Life in London, where he teaches courses on Work and Politics, and is the resident expert on Empathy, Future Ethics, pg. 161</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We need something more than moral or economic … **may stir us into changing** how we live and what we do</span>.

**A cross-space focus is a __pre-requisite__ to effective empathizing**
-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">this is a defense of international focus</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-this card says that lack of empathy is the most likely cause of continued emissions and willful ignorance of the impacts of our consumption decisions on others</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Krznaric 10 – PhD in Sociology from Oxford</span>
Roman, PhD in Sociology from Oxford, founding faculty member of The School of Life in London, where he teaches courses on Work and Politics, and is the resident expert on Empathy, Future Ethics, pg. 163-166
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Climate change is as much a problem across space … **drought-struck farmers in Kenya** can hear us chuckling in the sun</span>.


**Empathy framing is a pre-requisite to justice and peace – ends the desire for exploitation and violence**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rulka-Hathaway 1</span>
Kathleen M., August AN ARGUMENT FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF MORAL DISCUSSION INTO THE FORUM OF MARRIAGE AND FAMILY THERAPY, http://minds.wisconsin.edu/bitstream/handle/1793/39229/2001rulkahathk.pdf.txt;jsessionid=dcoz8y096e8y?sequence=2
When caring is fostered, empathy is born …, that which makes social existence and justice possible.


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-St. Mark's 1AC]]St. Mark's 1AC</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 1 is energy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exhaustion of resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By 2100, the number of people ……electrical power generation capability for the world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Starting now is the only way to avoid global energy deprivation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy ……the commercial development of SSP gains importance.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tectonic forces are roiling ……. and indeed the world, cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We’ll isolate two scenarios:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is warming:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s real and human-induced</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-now is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-AR4 = IPCC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1n early 2007, at the time of the publication of ……. next five to ten years, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to human extinction – SPS solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It has become increasingly evident that ……… way that has a chance to make a difference.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming is an existential risk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century …….social, cultural and political changes.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario two – Resource Conflict</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SSP solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It was a little more than a month ago when …….. pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nansen 10 – Former space engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today we face the compounding ……… we will run out of energy well before 2100."[2]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IPCC (2001) points out that ‘much has ……… will affect regional and international security’ (p. 107).</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phil, March, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, ………. must import electricity as well as petroleum.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"We become just by performing just actions, temperate by performing temperate actions, brave by performing brave actions," said Aristotle over 2,300 years ago. Today,the United States faces a series ……… America's best shot at remaining at the vanguard of global leadership.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s reverse causal – loss of resource control closes the relative hegemony gap</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blankley 9 – JD from Loyola</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tony, has a Juris Doctor degree from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles; author of "American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century" and vice president of the Edelman public-relations firm in Washington, “America held hostage; American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century” Washington Times, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our national security is being held …….. America, right now, is woefully unprepared.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This does not necessarily mean that ……… that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas ……… the prospect of U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global recession is coming – US fiscal stimulus solves and prevents war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lazzaro 9-24 – Editor of the International Business Times</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph, “Jobs Bill: 5 Reasons Why the U.S. Economy Needs More Fiscal Stimulus,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/219327/20110924/jobs-job-growth-unemployment-unemployment-rate-congress-gold-oil-homes-housing-stocks-bonds-djia-dow.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)… get the American people back to work.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group found that ………. of the world energy portfolio by mid‐century and beyond.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ……… between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1ac Solvency</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clean, efficient and available 24-7, ……. to get them excited about the future again.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More evidence – zero risk of private sector involvement absent a publicly-funded demonstration</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collins 2k – PhD in Advanced Science and Tech</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Patrick Collins, PhD, Visiting Research Fellow, Tokyo University, Research Center for Advanced Science & Technology, 2000, “SPS - time for a pilot plant,” Space Policy, 16, Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the electricity supply industry ………..benign and potentially profitable.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The spherical concept would enable ……….military endeavors in the medium of space.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP can be up and running within one year</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we took a moment to rank every ………eclipse every other energy solution here on earth.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP lowers launch costs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lark 9** – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Development of SSP could also be …………. to breakthroughs in propulsion techniques.39</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Michigan/Blake]]1AC Michigan/Blake</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ADVANTAGE 1 is energy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exhaustion of all energy resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By 2100, the number of people…the dominant electrical power generation capability for the world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally – solves growth, climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tectonic forces are roiling the global …cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS is competitive with fossil fuels in the near-term</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hornitschek et al 8 – Colonel in the USAF</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike, Hornitschek, Colonel in the USAF, 2008, “Solar power from space can help keep the peace on Earth,” Ad Astra,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Like all species in a closed ecosystem…that calculus is about to change.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We’ll isolate two scenarios:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is warming:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s real and human-induced</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1n early 2007, at the …zero well within this century.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature …forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to human extinction – SSP is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It has become increasingly ….a chance to make a difference.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming is an existential risk – quickening reductions is key to avoiding extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for …social, cultural and political changes.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario two – Resource Conflict</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SPS solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It was a little more than a month ago when the crisis in the Caucasus erupted. It will be years before historians sort out exactly how it started, but no one can deny that it ended with a classic case of Russia using massive …routes will diminish.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nansen 10 – Former space engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today we face the…energy well before 2100."[2]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IPCC (2001) points out …l and international security’ (p. 107).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phil, March, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The expected cost of deploying SBSP ….as well as petroleum.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"We become just by …vanguard of global leadership.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This does not necessarily … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daily explosions in ….U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the brink of a recession – productive stimulus spending is key – resiliency doesn’t apply</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">El-Arian 11-1 - CEO and co-CIO of PIMCO</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mohamed, “Could America turn out worse than Japan?,” Money Web, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.moneyweb.co.za/mw/view/mw/en/page292681?oid=555164&sn=2009+Detail]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is time to say goodbye …should be done to minimize this risk.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group …by mid‐century and beyond.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the report encompasses ….in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SOLVENCY</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clean, efficient and available 24-7… get them excited about the future again.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The spherical concept…the medium of space.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP can be up and running within one year</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we took a moment to rank every government agency… solution here on earth.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As such is the case, a critically sought after …in Earth orbit.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP is resilient and efficient</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, PhD in Nuclear Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Future systems will be even more...operational space environment.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP lowers launch costs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lark 9 – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Development of SSP …in propulsion techniques.39</span>


==Greenhill Round Robin 1AC== 





**Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.**



**Advantage 1 is energy**



**Exhaustion of resources is inevitable – //__only SSP__// can meet rising global demand**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snead 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">By 2100, the number of people</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> ……</span><span class="Underline">electrical power generation capability for the world</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**//__Starting now__// is the //__only__// way to avoid global energy deprivation**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snead 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy ……</span><span class="Underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> commercial </span><span class="Underline">development of SSP gains importance</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**A transition away from fossil fuels is //__inevitable__// but //__slow__// – US action //__expedites__// the transition //__globally__//**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stanislaw 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 15px;">Tectonic forces are roiling …….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and indeed the world, </span><span class="Underline">//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px;">cannot afford to wait</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> another 30 years.</span>



**We’ll isolate two scenarios:**



**First is warming:**



**It’s real and human-induced**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">-now is key</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">-AR4 = IPCC</span>

**Somerville 11**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>

<span class="Underline">1n</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> early </span><span class="Underline">2007</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, at the time of the publication of ……. next five to ten years, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>



**Prefer scientific //__assessments__// over single scientists or //__fringe theories__//**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alley 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Professor of Geoscience @ Penn State</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Richard, Professor of Geoscience @ Penn State, authored over 200 refereed scientific papers, which are "highly cited" according to a prominent indexing service, erved with distinguished national and international teams on major scientific assessment bodies, 11-17-2010, “CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE; COMMITTEE: HOUSE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY;</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">SUBCOMMITTEE: ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Background on Climate Change ……</span><span class="Underline"> sufficiently large warming has removed them entirely</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**W****arming leads to //__human extinction__// – SPS solves**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hsu 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – PhD in Engineering</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">It has become increasingly evident that </span><span class="Underline">……… way that has a chance to make a difference</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**Warming is an existential risk**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mazo 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century …….social, cultural and political </span><span class="Underline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**Scenario two – Resource Conflict**



**Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SSP solves great power war**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dinerman 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – DoD Consultant</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">It was a little more than a month ago when </span><span class="Underline">…….. pipelines and shipping routes will diminish</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nansen 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Former space engineer</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Today </span><span class="Underline">we face the compounding ……… we will run out of energy well before 2100</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">."[2]</span>



**Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nordas and Gleditsch 9</span>** -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf</span>



<span style="font-size: 11px;">IPCC (2001) points out that ‘</span><span class="Underline">much has ……… will affect regional and international security’</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (p. 107).</span>







**Advantage 2 is leadership**



**A //__large__// US investment in SSP turns the US into a //__net energy exporter__// – that’s key to resource control**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chapman et al 11</span>** – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Phil, March, 2011, [[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, ……….</span><span class="Underline"> must import electricity as well as petroleum</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**Energy control is the //__only__// way to sustain US hegemony**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Padilla 10</span>** – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">"We become just by performing just actions, temperate by performing temperate actions, brave by performing brave actions," said Aristotle over 2,300 years ago. Today, </span><span class="Underline">the United States faces a series ……… America's best shot at remaining at the vanguard of global leadership</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**It’s reverse causal – loss of resource control closes the relative hegemony gap**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Blankley 9</span>** – JD from Loyola

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Tony, has a Juris Doctor degree from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles; author of "American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century" and vice president of the Edelman public-relations firm in Washington, “America held hostage; American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century” Washington Times, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Our </span><span class="Underline">national security is being held …….. America</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, right now, </span><span class="Underline">is woefully unprepared.</span>



**Leadership solves great power war**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zhang and Shi 11</span>** – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank

<span style="font-size: 11px;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>

<span class="Underline">This does not </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">necessarily </span><span class="Underline">mean that ………</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>



**Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Drezner 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Professor of IR @ Tufts</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas ……… the prospect of U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.</span>



**Economic collapse is coming now – fiscal stimulus is key**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Romer 8-14</span>** – Professor of Economics @ Berkeley

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Christina, “The Hope That Flows From History,” New York Times, Proquest</span>



<span style="font-size: 11px;">Look more closely at history and you’ll see that the …….. concrete our commitment to deal with the debt over time.</span>



**The __process of development__ creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group found that </span><span class="Underline">………. of the world energy portfolio by mid</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math',serif;">‐</span><span class="Underline">century and beyond</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>





**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ………</span><span style="font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 15px;"> between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>









**1ac Solvency**





**Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">General Electric 11</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Clean, efficient and available 24-7, </span>……. to get them excited about the future again<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**More evidence – zero risk of private sector involvement absent a publicly-funded demonstration**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collins 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – PhD in Advanced Science and Tech</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Patrick Collins, PhD, Visiting Research Fellow, Tokyo University, Research Center for Advanced Science & Technology, 2000, “SPS - time for a pilot plant,” Space Policy, 16, Science Direct</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">In the electricity supply industry </span>………..benign and potentially profitable<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>



**Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brown 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Masters in Science</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1</span>

<span class="Underline">The spherical concept would enable ……….military endeavors in the medium of space.</span>





**SSP can be up and running within one year**

**Costa, 10**//<span style="font-size: 11px;"> - </span>////<span style="font-size: 11px;">sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 11px;">Rebecca, </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">“Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span>



<span style="font-size: 11px;">If we took a moment to rank every ………</span>__eclipse every other energy solution here on earth.__





**SSP lowers launch costs**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lark 9</span>**** – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club, https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power</span>

<span class="Underline">Development of SSP could </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">also</span><span class="Underline"> be </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">………….</span><span class="Underline"> to breakthroughs in propulsion techniques</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.39</span>




==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC space nukes add on]]2AC space nukes add on</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space nukes coming now – lead to extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grossman 8-10 – Professor @ College of New York</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Karl, “Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions,” Truth Out, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/despite-solar-options-nasa-nuclear-alliance-continues-plutonium-powered-missions/1312560708]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What is the National Aeronautics and Space… the space program.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC asteroids add on]]2AC asteroids add on</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP solves asteroids</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hempsella 6 – professor at University of Bristol</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hempsella, Mark, professor at University of Bristol, October 2006, “Space power as a response to global catastrophes,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, Pages 524-530, EBSCO)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Large near-Earth object impacts, …location was a Sun Earth Lagrange point.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction is inevitable without it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schwab, 5 – director of the Homeplanet Defense Institute (Martin, Homeplanet Defense: Strategic Thought for a World in Crisis, chapter 1)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We now face multiple threats …Mars and eventually beyond.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC T development=human]]2AC T development=human</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We meet—we’re exploration</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WM—SSP requires humans for development</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counter interpretation: Space development includes space structures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Suita, Imagaw et al. 05 –Yoshikazu SUITA, professor at Takamatsu National College of Technology and Kichiro Imagaw, project manager of the JEM Development Project Team for JAXA ( June 6th, 2005, “Butt welding joint of aluminum alloy by space GHTA welding process in vacuum”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/tjsass/48/162/229/_pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On February 1, 2003, all seven crew members of the Columbia space shuttle died in a midair disintegration accident. The accident investigation committee concluded that heat-insulating foam fell oﬀ the external tank and damaged the thermal protection tiles on the leading edge of the left wing. Hot gas entered the left wing during atmospheric reentry causing the midair disintegration. After the Columbia accident, NASA suspended shuttle launches. Consequently, the operation period of the International Space Station (ISS), which is due to be completed in 2010, may be extended for various reasons. Extending the ISS operation period may require maintenance, improvements, and repair to damage caused by collisions with debris. When considering ambitious future space development programs, such as the construction of a lunar base, solar power satellites, and other space structures, we clearly need to establish safe space welding and processing technologies.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Development means creating technology for the use of space</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space Development Promotion Act, 5 – of the Republic of Korea (5/31, reprinted in the UN Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.unoosa.org/pdf/limited/c2/AC105_C2_2009_CRP14E.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The terms in this act are defined as follows:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. "Space development" means any one of the following items:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(a) Research activities and technology development activities relevant to the design, manufacturing, launch, and/or operation of space objects and</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(b) The use and exploration of outer space as well as activities that promote such activities.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their interp overlimits—prevents k/ affs like satellites for monitoring, communication and space BMD</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We don’t kill their ground—there aren’t DAs based off of including humans</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reasonability—competing interps cause a race to the bottom</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC Pay Roll Tax Cuts]]2AC Pay Roll Tax Cuts</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Won’t pass – agreement on premise will not overcome disagreement over offsets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 2/1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/208025-conference-committee-on-some-of-the-same-pages-on-payroll-tax]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The 20 lawmakers …after the meeting.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has zero political capital – Congress will block no matter what</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">News Herald 1/31 (News Herald. 31 January 2012. “Congress Obstructs Obama’s Domestic Agenda”.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.newsherald.com/articles/record-100057-congress-year.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Washington Times …malpractice," the president said.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GOP focusing on pipeline</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NYT 2/1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/02/us/politics/for-gop-pipeline-is-central-to-agenda.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WASHINGTON — Just six months ago, …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of pipeline jobs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama must exert effort and he can get his agenda</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kuttner 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert Kuttner, co-founder and co-editor of The American Prospect, as well as a distinguished senior fellow of the think tank Demos. “Barack Obama’s Theory of Power”. The American Prospect. May 16, 2011. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s critics contend…, it hasn’t worked.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extending the Payroll Tax Cut won’t solve the economy – economic experts and empirics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bartlett 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, 8/30 (The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut, economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/30/the-case-against-a-payroll-tax-cut/)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In theory, the …the tax wedge.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PC is not key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dickinson 11 – Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, 3-21-2011, “Friedman Weighs In On the “Passionless” President – But Is He Right?,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2011/03/21/friedman-weighs-in-on-the-passive-president-but-is-he-right/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedman’s complaint regarding… writes on this score</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC SKFTA]]2AC SKFTA</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TAA will block</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 9/14</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(September 14, 2011, “GOP increases pressure on Obama to move trade deals”, The Hill, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/181677-boeing-stays-out-of-fray-over-gops-nlrb-bill]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Obama administration is seeking a … not like the TAA program.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 9/10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(September 10, 2011, The Hill, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://thehill.com/homenews/house/180751-obama-backed-trade-pacts-could-be-heavy-lift-for-house-gop?page=2#comments|http://thehill.com/homenews/house/180751-obama-backed-trade-pacts-could-be-heavy-lift-for-house-gop?page=2#comments]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A source opposed to the … Congress may have a different view.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has no PC—</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. No PC – Debt Ceiling Fight</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Business Times Singapore 9/7, 2011, Obama must deliver bold action plan</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AS President Barack Obama prepares his critically important address to the US Congress tomorrow against the backdrop of a US unemployment rate of 9.1 per cent, expectations will be high for him to behave uncharacteristically: that is, to be bold and explicit.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the latest data showing that there was no job growth during the month of August, Mr Obama is under pressure to come up with short-term measures to spur economic and job growth. With a hostile Congress and limited resources, this is no simple matter.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moreover, the US president is … not help his cause either.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. jobs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AP 9/8 Associated Press, September 8, 2011</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In one upbeat sign for … might support a payroll tax cut.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"It is not games and politics for people out across this country. It's real," Cantor said about the state of the economic debate. "The fact that we have had such sustained joblessness in this country, the fact that people are doing anything they can in many instances just to stay afloat and to pay the bills, it's real."</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At the heart of Obama's … applies to earnings up to $106,800.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PC doesn’t influence the passage of legislation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dickinson, 09 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: the Senate Judiciary Committee is slated to hold hearings sometime this summer (this involves both written depositions and of course open hearings), which should lead to formal Senate approval before Congress adjourns for its summer recess in early August. So Sotomayor will likely take her seat in time for the start of the new Court session on October 5. (I talk briefly about the likely politics of the nomination process below).</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What is of more interest … present Sotomayor as his nominee.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we want to measure Obama’s “power”, then, we need to know what his real preference was and why he chose Sotomayor. My guess – and it is only a guess – is that after conferring with leading Democrats and Republicans, he recognized the overriding practical political advantages accruing from choosing an Hispanic woman, with left-leaning credentials. We cannot know if this would have been his ideal choice based on judicial philosophy alone, but presidents are never free to act on their ideal preferences. Politics is the art of the possible. Whether Sotomayer is his first choice or not, however, her nomination is a reminder that the power of the presidency often resides in the president’s ability to dictate the alternatives from which Congress (or in this case the Senate) must choose. Although Republicans will undoubtedly attack Sotomayor for her judicial “activism” (citing in particular her decisions regarding promotion and affirmative action), her comments regarding the importance of gender and ethnicity in influencing her decisions, and her views regarding whether appellate courts “make” policy, they run the risk of alienating Hispanic voters – an increasingly influential voting bloc (to the extent that one can view Hispanics as a voting bloc!) I find it very hard to believe she will not be easily confirmed. In structuring the alternative before the Senate in this manner, then, Obama reveals an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan is popular—overcomes cost concerns</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">USINFO, 07 - produced by the Bureau of International Information Programs, U.S. Department of State (“Space Solar Energy Has Future, U.S. Researchers Say - Small demonstration project could help justify further research”, State Department Press Releases And Documents, 8/20, factiva)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin Hoffert, former chair of … justification for such an investment.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SKFTA not key to the alliance</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cooper et al 11/12/10 (William, Mark Manyin, Remy Jurenas, Michaela Platzer, Specialists in Trade + Asian Affairs @ Congressional Research Affairs, "The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications,"</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC SKFTA-- impact turns]]2AC SKFTA-- impact turns</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SKFTA causes rising expectations—makes alliance collapse inevitable and causes South Korean adventurism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kim '10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sung Eun "Ties That Bind: Assessing the Impact of Economic Interdependence on East Asian Alliances"</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eai.or.kr/data/bbs/eng_report/201002251819214.pdfIn]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the long run, however, Seoul and ...to its long enduring security alliance.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SK adventurism causes rapid escalation and nuclear warRaska '10, Michael, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, The Statesman "Why Can't South Korea Retaliate?" 11/25</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, since the early 1990s, South Korea’s …into a broader regional crisis.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ratification of KORUS causes an FTA between China and Korea – overwhelms any gains to the alliance and causes China rise</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee and Kim ‘9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dong Sun Lee, Research Fellow, East West Center, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago, and Sung Eun Kim, PhD in Statistics, Department of Statistics, University of California, Davis. "The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment". Paper presented at the annual meeting of the ISA's 50th Annual Convention. February 15, 2009.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/|http://www.allacademic.com]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, even if the KORUS FTA … positive effect from the KORUS FTA.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC v. Super Committee DA]]2AC v. Super Committee DA</span>== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Super committee failing now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NYT 9/26</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Calmes, Jackie and Steinhauer, Jennifer “As Sides Dig In, Panel on Deficit Has an Uphill Fight”, New York Times,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/26/us/politics/congressional-deficit-cutting-group-faces-an-uphill-fight.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1&ref=nationalcommissiononfiscalresponsibilityandreform]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> )</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As if expectations were …envision how they get to $1.2 trillion.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No chance of a deficit reduction deal</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Huffington Post 9/27</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Grim, Ryan September 27, 2011, Huffington Post, “Super Committee’s Cuts Anything But Automatic”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/27/super-congress-super-committee-deficit-cuts_n_982770.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"All of this at some point comes together…, waived, ignored or abandoned."</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FEMA funding triggers the link</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-it’s new spending</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-it triggered a Congressional fight</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Boles 9-27</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Corey, “House Leaders to Seek Stopgap-Funding Approval,” Wall Street Journal,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204831304576596790157948756.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An aide to House Majority Leader Eric Cantor …rest of the government through Nov. 18.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No risk of defense cuts and no impact</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wheeler 9-16 - worked on national security issues for 31 years for members of the U.S. Senate and for the U.S. General Accounting Office</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Winslow, director of the Straus Military Reform Project, “The Not-So-Super Committee” Counterpunch</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Painful as it is to remember, the August Debt Deal… dysfunction in Congress and the White House yet to observe.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">O’Hanlon is a neo-con</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Right Web 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Michael O’Hanlon,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.rightweb.irc-online.org/profile/OHanlon_Michael]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael O’Hanlon is a senor fellow at the centrist…, also a scholar based at Brookings.[12]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They’ll cut tech, not troops</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sahadi 9-30</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeanne, “What if the debt committee fails?,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/30/news/economy/debt_committee/?source=cnn_bin]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Automatic spending cuts. That's …defense personnel expenses.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s not key to hegemony</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miles 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Donna, American Forces Press Service, Technology to enable, not replace warfighters,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.jfcom.mil/newslink/storyarchive/2009/no012709.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robots are helping to save …has not changed," he said.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AT: econ impact</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spending now solves long-term deficit</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John Judis, senior editor at The New Republic and a visiting fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 11-25-2009, “The Case for Deficit Spending,” The New Republic, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/the-case-deficit-spending?page=0,1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Won’t greater deficits lead …without deficit spending now.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AT: Asia war impact</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg solves asian stability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brzezinski 4 Zbigniew (Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a professor of foreign policy @ Johns Hopkins) “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” p 110-111</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ultimately, war or peace …then set off an explosion.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC weaponization/NSP DA]]2AC weaponization/NSP DA</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt cause—x37B</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Axe 9-19</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David, “Secret Sats, Giant Rockets: U.S. Unveils Space War Arsenal,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/09/space-war-arsenal/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carlson highlighted the…space war is only escalating.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Uniqueness o/w the link—if Obama’s pushing cooperation now, he won’t stop b/c of the plan</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan leads to space cooperation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charania 2 - SpaceWorks Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Positioning SSP as the next logical step after the ISS, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.sei.aero/eng/papers/uploads/archive/IAC-02-R.L09.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP in terms of an infrastructure cannot compete …enlarging the alliance of supporters.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transparency and natural barriers prevent weaponization</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Your concern about weaponization of the… also removes the risk of weaponization.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space unilateralism solves cooperation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stone 11 - space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When it comes to space exploration and development, including …objectives “worthy of a great nation”.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn—NSP is all talk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Krepon 10 – Co-founder of the Stimson Center</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael, co-founder of the Stimson Center and the co-author and co-editor of Space Assurance or Space Dominance: The Case Against Weaponizing Space (2003), Open Skies, Arms Control and Cooperative Security (1992) and Commercial Observation Satellites and International Security (1990)., “The Obama Administration’s National Space Policy,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.stimson.org/summaries/the-obama-administrations-national-space-policy/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">After much delay, the Obama administration …leadership on space issues.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP is the tangible solution</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sadeh 8 - Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eligar, Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar, The Space Review, “Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration”, 6/9, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1146/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Policy Choice</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">United States government leadership in space… did for the United States in the 1960s.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AT: Pop 2k link</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pop concludes aff</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pop 2k – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Regarding their use …ionising like X-ray radiation”21.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC ozone DA]]2AC ozone DA</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt cause nitrous oxide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peter Spotts, Christian Science Staff, 8-27-2009, “The next major threat to the ozone layer: nitrous oxide,” Christian Science Monitor,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2009/0827/the-next-major-threat-to-the-ozone-layer-nitrous-oxide]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A colorless, sweet-smelling …the 1987 Montreal Protocol.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Q. Is it true that launching … impact would be inconsequential.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan is a net-ozone saver</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin et al 11 – Lt. Col. in the USAF</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harold Martin, et al, “Space Based Solar Power” Industry and Technology Assessment, Scholar</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wireless energy transmission will …approximately 15 (in US) to around 120.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Launches don’t hurt the ozone</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many people ask about the effects …greatly reduce launch needs.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If there is a negative effect, it is very minimal</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parson 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert Parson, Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 10-2010, “Do Space Shuttle Launches Damage the Ozone Layer,” Science and Engineering, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://stason.org/TULARC/science-engineering/ozone-depletion-intro/23-Do-Space-Shuttle-launches-damage-the-ozone-layer.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">23 Do Space Shuttle launches …75,000 tons per year. [Prather et al. 1990] [WMO 1991] [Ko et al.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space tourism guarantees ozone depletion</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anne Minard, National Geographic Researcher, 4-14-2009, “Rocket Launches Damage Ozone Layer, Study Says,” National Geographic News, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2009/04/090414-rockets-ozone.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased international space …Earth's depleted ozone layer.</span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC DoD anchor tenant CP]]2AC DoD anchor tenant CP</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP can’t solve and it links to politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schwartz 10 – Specialist in Defense Aquistion @ CRS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moshe, Specialist in Defense Acquisition @ CRS, “Defense Acquisitions: How DOD Acquires Weapon Systems and Recent Efforts to Reform the Process,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL34026.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Department of Defense (DOD) efforts…, acquisition and contracting, and financial management.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplan links to politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Boss 6-29 – intern with the Energy and Environment team at the Center for American Progress</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stewart, “Military Leaders Want to Save Money and Lives with Clean Energy, While GOP Leaders Want to Stop Them,” Climate Progress,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/07/29/282842/military-clean-energy-gop/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogress%2FlCrX+%28Climate+Progress%29]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earlier this week at Politico’s “Energy & …haul doesn’t equal “fiscal conservatism.”</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PERM DO BOTH</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DoD procurement fails without an up-front USFG investment</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that industry has… feasibility of advanced energy technologies.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplan is the status quo – inherency proves it’s insufficient</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Binns 7-1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Corey, “SPACE-BASED SOLAR POWER,” Power Engineering, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.power-eng.com/news/2011/07/1448632564/space-based-solar-power.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If space-based solar-power satellites …delivery can reach up to $400 a gallon.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">counterplan doesn’t solve globally – Buy American prevents investment and export for DoD acquisition</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Potter 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matt Potter, “Pentagon Ordered to Buy American for Green Technology,” Defense Procurement News,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.defenseprocurementnews.com/2011/01/12/pentagon-ordered-to-buy-american-for-green-technology/#ixzz1Rjay8aLJ|http://www.defenseprocurementnews.com/2011/01/12/pentagon-ordered-to-buy-american-for-green-technology/#ixzz1Rjay8aLJ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One of the provisions contained in the Defense Authorization …product on time or at the necessary cost.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically – it undercuts competition that is key to successful innovation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grasso 11 - Specialist in Defense Acquisition @ CRS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Valerie, “The Berry Amendment: Requiring Defense Procurement to Come from Domestic Sources,” Congressional Research Service,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL31236.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, others (i.e., …conditions” of foreign markets.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC XO CP]]2AC XO CP</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do the counterplan – the counterplan is an additional clarification of the effect of the plan</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do both – solves presidential powers better because it is perceived as Congress submitting to executive demands</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*Executive orders increase political opposition</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steven Schier, December 2011, Presidential Studies Quarterly, The Contemporary Presidency: The Presidential authority problem and the political power trap, p. 147</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama initially …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">now by Obama.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Doesn’t solve</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) Funding – the executive can’t spend billions of dollars – Congressional appropriation is key to solve short-term fiscal stimulus</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) Congressional signal is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mahan 7 – Leader @ SBSP Advocacy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rob Mahan, Team Leader for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, 2007, “Citizens for Space Based Solar Power,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://c-sbsp.org/home/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. Government …and economic development.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Executive orders increase political opposition</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steven Schier, December 2011, Presidential Studies Quarterly, The Contemporary Presidency: The Presidential authority problem and the political power trap, p. 147</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama initially enjoyed…</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and now by Obama.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC FSE CP]]2AC FSE CP</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do the counterplan</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The CP is plan plus —it collects solar and non solar electrons</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas—their author-- ‘8 (Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.prlog.org/10091881-renewable-free-energy-for-the-world-forever.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Microwave power can now … klystron microwave system.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP is only a million dollars—doesn’t solve econ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas—their author-- ‘8 (Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.prlog.org/10091881-renewable-free-energy-for-the-world-forever.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today’s space power …genius and ingenuity to make it reality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – counterplan leads to debris, tanks solvency</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blake 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heidi, “Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This “chain reaction” ….kind of destructive force."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GEO avoids this</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CETS 95</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Commission on Engineering and Technical Solutions, “Hazards to Space Operations from Debris,” National Academies Press,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=4765&page=79]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FIGURE 4-5 Meteoroid environment ..lower only 500 km above or</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LEO leads to thermal cycling – prevents satellite life-line</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dai 6 – Professor of Nanosciences</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Liming, editor, “Carbon Nanotechnology: Recent Developments in Chemistry, Physics, Materials Science and Device Applications,” p. 688</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2.8 Thermal cycling</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spacecraft in LEO can experience …spacecraft has less influence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP fails—LEO magnetic flux and radiation will destroy it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hollaway 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hollaway, L.C., Ph. D, and Professor at the University of Surrey, March 15 2011, “Thermoplastic –Carbon Fiber Composites Could Aid Solar-Based Power Generation: Possible Support System for Solar Power Satellites”, Journal of Composites for Construction)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The environment encountered in orbit …period, during their fabrication and deployment.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC Heidegger]]2AC Heidegger</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FW: prior questions are only relevant if they prove that the aff is a bad idea</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ontological focus is bad—it’s subjective, non-falsifiable, and authoritarian</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Graham, ‘99</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phil Graham, Graduate School of Management , University of Queensland, Heidegger’s Hippies: A dissenting voice on the “problem of the subject” in cyberspace, Identities in Action! 1999, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.philgraham.net/HH_conf.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, “the problem of the subject” …franca and world currency (Adorno 1964/19731973).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do the plan and [all non mutually exclusive components of the alt]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DOUBLE BIND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have an obligation to discuss climate change in security debates</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 142</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The security dimension …anything but the shortest timescales.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Calculative thought is good—it’s key to resist of oppression,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Campbell 99 – Professor of International Politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David, Prof of Int’l Politics @ Univ. of Newcastle, Moral Spaces, p. 50-51</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In pursuing Derrida on the question …negotiated, but not escaped or transcended.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Action to prevent extinction comes before ontology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Santoni 85 - Maria Theresa Barney Chair Emeritus of Philosophy at Denison University (Ronald, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives” p 156-157)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To be sure, Fox sees the need for our undergoing …as the final arbiter of our planet’s fate.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inaction and pure ontological focus justifies genocide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rockmore 91 – Prof of Philosophy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tom, On Heidegger’s Nazism and Philosophy Dusquesne University Prof of Phil </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://publishing.cdlib.org/ucpressebooks/view?docId=ft6q2nb3wh;brand=ucpress]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heidegger's failure to denounce, …fails the test of experience.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">alt can’t overcome tech thought</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">George Kateb (William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Politics, Emeritus, at Princeton University) 1997 “Technology and Society” Social research Vol 64 Issue 3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But the question arises …not want to block it reemergence.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC Taoism K]]2AC Taoism K</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The introduction of nuclear weapons to the social field negates Taoism’s central argument – we must revise it’s ideology to allow prevention of nuclear conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warrick 80</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warrick Professor of English at the University of Wisconsin 1980 Patricia Science Fiction Studies, Vol 7 No 2 jstor</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Returning now to …finally cosmic domination.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any problem they identify with futurism will only be worse in a world where we give up. Either others will decide for us or we will be overwhelmed by crises. Futurism may have flaws but scenario planning by citizens is the best hope we have.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kurasawa 4 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">None of this …here and now.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Short-sightedness makes life disposable—the techno-strategic logic they indict is at its worst when we refuse to consider long-term consequences. Future orientation is the only way to make better decisions.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kurasawa 4 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At another level, …of preventive foresight.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Policy analysis based on facts and objective evaluation of data avoids a slide into violent and undemocratic politics – the alternative is suppression and hierarchy – post positivist arguments to the contrary have no logic</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lynn 99 – Sid Richardson Research Prof. in LBJ School of Public Affairs @ UT Austin (Laurence, Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, “A Place at the Table: Policy Analysis, Its Postpositive Critics, and the Future of Practice”, 18:3 )</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Policy analysis, says …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">practitioners of various persuasions.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC cap K]]2AC cap K</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Issac, 02—Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As a result, the most important political …it undermines political effectiveness.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm solves best-- anti-reformism dooms any movement away from capitalism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burrows 1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Paul Burrows, author and publisher from the SMAC lecture series New Colonist April 2001 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.newcolonist.com/altcap.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I think that if …experiments to support.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitalism is sustainable and there is no alternative</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grossburg 92</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lawrence, Communication Studies Professor at UNC, We Gotta Get Out of This Place, pg. 388-389</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If it is capitalism …investments rather than profits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alternatives to Capitalism end in war and genocide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rummel 4 Rudolph Rummel, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Hawaii, The Killing Machine that is Marxism, Online - THE MORE POWER YOU GIVE THE GOVERNMENT, THE MORE POWER THEY HAVE OVER THEIR CITIZENS, SO HUMAN LIFE AND WELFARE WILL BE SACRIFICED</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of all religions, …kill its own citizens.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitalism isn’t the root cause of war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dandeker 92</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chris, Professor of Military Sociology in the Department of War Studies at King’s College London, The Causes of War and the History of Modern Sociological Theory,” Effects of War on Society, Edited by Giorgio Ausenda, Published by the Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Social Stress by Boydell & Brewer Ltd, ISBN 0851158684, 1st Edition Published in 1992, 2nd Edition Published in 2002, p. 44-46</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All these arguments …of modern nation-states (Dandeker 1990:51; Giddens 1985:172).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap solves war and poverty</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Norberg 3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Johan Norberg, Fellow at Timbro and CATO, MA with a focus in economics and philosophy, In Defense of Global Capitalism, pg. 288</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Globalization brings with …nationalism will gain ground.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap solves failed states</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ted Robert Gurr et al, Director, Minorities at Risk Project; Distinguished University Professor, Department of Government & Politics at the University of Marylan, 9-30-2000, State Failure Task Force Report: Phase III Findings,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/stfail/SFTF%20Phase%20III%20Report%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Assessing the Impact of Trade …encourage political stability.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yoo 5</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John, Professor of Law, University of California at Berkeley School of Law, Failed States, Int’l Colloquium, Online</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failed states pose …the problem of failed states</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC economic competitiveness K]]2AC economic competitiveness K</span>== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sole focus on reps fails</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While theoretical debates …patterned mess that is human history.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US economic leadership is k/t multilateral cooperation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Posen 9 - deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the postwar period, US …following priority measures.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competitive is inescapable—we must work within it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bristow & Wells, beg authors, 2005</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Gillian and Peter, Profs @Cardiff, Innovative Discourses for sustainable local development, Int. J. Innovation and Sustainable Development, Vol. 1, Nos. 1/2, 2005]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In an era of large-scale …a sustainable society. (178)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt fails</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Erica Schoenberger , Prof of Geography with Joint Appointment in Anthropology @ Johns Hopkins, BA History Stanford, MCP Berkeley, PHD Berkeley, Discourse and Practice …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">tend to open up or foreclose. (3)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competition fosters coop, solves the impact.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trapido, 2007</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Denis, Business Professor, Stanford, “Competitive Embeddedness and the Emergence of Interfirm Cooperation,” Social Forces, Volume 86, Number 1, September 2007, pp. 165-191]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The definition of economic competition… specification is justified.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Criticizing US imperialism backfires</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shaw 2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin Shaw, professor of international relations at University of Sussex, April 7, Uses and Abuses of Anti-Imperialism in the Global Era,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is fashionable in some …at the end of this paper.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">T/ heg solves genocide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">McMaster 3 (Brigadier General H. R. Hoover Institution 3 Feb 17 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.hoover.org/pubaffairs/dailyreport/archive/2848556.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.) TBC 7/9/10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although the dangers of careless …leads to more dangerous conflicts.</span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC Fem K]]2AC Fem K</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Claims of a single root cause deny complex causality and inter-relationships – entirely untrue and justifies other forms of oppression</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Crenshaw, PhD, 2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carrie, PhD, Perspectives In Controversy: Selected Articles from CAD, Scholar</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feminism is not …or societal consciousness raising.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War makes patriarchy more likely – proves the impact short-circuits the alternative</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Workman 96</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thom, Poli Sci @ U of New Brunswick, YCISS Paper no. 31, p. 4, January 1996, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/OP31-Workman.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the loosening of …reproduction of women's oppression.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline leads to gender discrimination and sexual violence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hughes 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scott, April, Poverty Causes Teen Sex Problems, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://millionsofmouths.com/blog/nfblog/2008/04/08/poverty-causes-teen-sex-problems/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So far, I have only read …crime and sex violence.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) We have an obligation to change material conditions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peterson 92</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Editor V Spike, Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Arizona, Gendered States, pg. 58</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, as we reach …that means all of us.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC security K]]2AC security K</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reps focus fails</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While theoretical debates …that is human history.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have an obligation to discuss climate change in security debates</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 142</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The security dimension …the shortest timescales.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alt has no strategy—doing nothing doesn’t change tech reps of the SQ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Murray, 97 Professor Politics at the University of Wales, 1997 (Alastair J.H., Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 185-6)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yet Linklater concedes that ‘it is not at all ….attempting to address them.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the alt – if the alt can overcome other instances of space tech discourse, perm solves residual links</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt can’t solve—securitization and competition are inevitable</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thayer 04 – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The central issue …shelter, or other resources).</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alt replicates the wars its trying to prevent—calculation and problem solving are good</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Murray 97 – Professor of Politics at the University of Wales Swansea (Alastair J. H. “Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics” 1997, p. 193-196, MT)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It should be clear from the preceding …conditions must first be ensured.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perm do the plan and reject space tech discourse in all other instances—if they get to sever their reps, we can sever ours</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is empirically verifiable – hegemony creates costs to conflict that deter international aggression</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moore 4 – Dir. Center for Security Law and Professor of Law @ University of Virginia, Editor of the American Journal of International Law</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John Norton, “Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace,” pg. 30-31</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As so broadly conceived, …such settings.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Realism is the most accurate theory of international relations – minor counter-examples don’t disprove the overarching predictive nature of anarchic sovereign states*</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Amin et al 11 – PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Musarat, Rizwan Naseer, PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China, Tilak Ishtiaq, MA in IR @ University of Sargodha, Pakistan, “Realism - Dominating Theory in International Relations: An analysis,” Berkeley Journal of Social Sciences, Vol. 1, No. 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Realism is sometimes described as dominant theory in the field of International Relations. Realism has been implicated in almost every major debate over the last half century. ‘Theory of Political Realism’… in international relations.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC CSP cp]]2AC CSP cp</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Icing, aircraft, and wind make it unreliable—forces return to conventional fuel</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Henson, their author, 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Henson, Keith, the oil drum, September 3, 2011, “WOULD THIS WORK? Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above The Earth”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.businessinsider.com/would-this-work-concentrated-solar-power-12-miles-above-the-earth-2011-9]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Icing is a concern, …a conventional power plant.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only solves 1/3 energy concerns</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agiletti 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GUGLIELMO AGLIETTI et al.: member of the Royal Aeronautical Society and the American Association of Aeronautics and Astronautics, PhD at School of Engineering Science, “HARNESSING HIGH-ALTITUDE SOLAR POWER”, IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, Vol. 24, No. 2, June 2009, Stefano Redi, Adrian R. Tatnall, Senior Space Systems Engineer at British Aerospace, and Thomas Markvart, B.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in mathematical physics from the University of Birmingham, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=04957576]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This paper has examined …harvest renewable energy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP can’t beam energy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Henson, their author, 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Henson, Keith, the oil drum, September 3, 2011, “WOULD THIS WORK? Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above The Earth”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.businessinsider.com/would-this-work-concentrated-solar-power-12-miles-above-the-earth-2011-9]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The concept in this …a company called StratoSolar.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC cyber security politics]]2AC cyber security politics</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">House GoP prevent blockage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 10/30</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[The Hill. 10/30/11 ln]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Unfortunately, time is not … comply with federal cybersecurity standards.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Political capital can’t influence them</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Isquith 10-19</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elias, “Sometimes the bully pulpit ain’t so bully,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://ordinary-gentlemen.com/eliasisquith/2011/10/19/sometimes-the-bully-pulpit-aint-so-bully/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Responding to the continuing ill … an Obama approval rating of 60%.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Not top of the agenda</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rashid 10-30</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fahmida, “Cyber-Attackers Already Targeting Critical Infrastructure: DHS,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Security/CyberAttackers-Already-Targeting-Critical-Infrastructure-DHS-573564/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Congress needs to act to … for a vote this legislative session.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air gap solves cyberterror</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Poulsen 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kevin, Writer for Wired magazine, “ ‘Cyberwar’ and Estonia’s panic attack,” August 22,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://blog.wired.com/27bstroke6/2007/08/cyber-war-and-e.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There’s no doubt that the … laundry and walk your dog.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – overload – cyber-bill leads … information overload, makes protections worse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Katznelson 10-23</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zachary, “Commentary: The Patriot Act, cyber-edition,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.kansascity.com/2011/10/23/3214814/commentary-the-patriot-act-cyber.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cybersecurity is the new buzzword … too static and prevents innovation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – rigidity – private sector solves cyber-terrorism now – legislation is too static and prevents innovation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Amy, “White House Cybersecurity Plan Feared Inadequate By Experts, Could Violate Privacy,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/13/white-house-cybersecurity-plan_n_861738.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Experts fear a new government plan … – liberal democracy – cyber-bill collapses it</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – liberal democracy – cyber-bill collapses it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burghardt 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tom, “Obama's National Cybersecurity Initiative: Privacy and Civil liberties are Damned,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=17993]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As long time readers of … destruction of our democratic rights.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zakaria, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, 97</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fareed, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, editor of Newsweek International, Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of Illiberal Democracy”, November/December, Proquest</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The distinction between liberal and … democracy safe for the world.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC pay roll tax cuts DA]]2AC pay roll tax cuts DA</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Won’t pass – agreement on premise will not overcome disagreement over offsets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 2/1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/208025-conference-committee-on-some-of-the-same-pages-on-payroll-tax]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The 20 lawmakers …after the meeting.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has zero political capital – Congress will block no matter what</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">News Herald 1/31 (News Herald. 31 January 2012. “Congress Obstructs Obama’s Domestic Agenda”.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.newsherald.com/articles/record-100057-congress-year.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Washington Times …malpractice," the president said.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GOP focusing on pipeline</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NYT 2/1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/02/us/politics/for-gop-pipeline-is-central-to-agenda.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WASHINGTON — Just six months ago, …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of pipeline jobs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama must exert effort and he can get his agenda</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kuttner 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert Kuttner, co-founder and co-editor of The American Prospect, as well as a distinguished senior fellow of the think tank Demos. “Barack Obama’s Theory of Power”. The American Prospect. May 16, 2011. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s critics contend…, it hasn’t worked.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extending the Payroll Tax Cut won’t solve the economy – economic experts and empirics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bartlett 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, 8/30 (The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut, economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/30/the-case-against-a-payroll-tax-cut/)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In theory, the …the tax wedge.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PC is not key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dickinson 11 – Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, 3-21-2011, “Friedman Weighs In On the “Passionless” President – But Is He Right?,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2011/03/21/friedman-weighs-in-on-the-passive-president-but-is-he-right/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedman’s complaint regarding… writes on this score</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC interference DA]]2AC interference DA</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS inevitable but now’s key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Putting off the problem until later only... It's only a matter of when, and who.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Studies prove no interference</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-their evidence ignores scientific studies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ramos 2k—Kim, Major in the USAF and graduate of the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLLEGE</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">April 2000, “SOLAR POWER CONSTELLATIONSIMPLICATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_73510976-ad5e-4d5d-a51c-a7103406f67d/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The final barrier to implementation …interference as an issue to resolve.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ITU coordination solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How does a company …transmissions will not disrupt existing services.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt caus – solar flares</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hines 3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matt, Science Staff, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://news.cnet.com/More-solar-flares-warm-satellite-concerns/2100-1033_3-5098950.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The sun erupted in a series of major …United States as a result of the flares.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP solves asteroids</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schwab, 02 – director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs (Martin, “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">) (Note – while this link works, a text search in google won’t - you will need a web archive search on homeplanetdefense.org to find this)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Using SSP/Communications Platforms to Detect and Deflect Small Asteroids and Comets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic considerations play … Livermore National Laboratories.42</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC GEO disad]]2AC GEO disad</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS inevitable but now’s k/</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Putting off the problem …only a matter of when, and who.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space unilateralism solves cooperation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stone 11 - space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When it comes to space exploration…“worthy of a great nation”.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ITU coordination solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How does a company …disrupt existing services.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competition high now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Powersat 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intercollegiate SPS Design Competition, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://powersatcontest.com/comp.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth orbit in 2015 …communication satellite "slots".</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their math is off – multiple satellites can occupy the same orbital slot</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nelson 9 – PhD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert, “GEO Satellite question,” Applied Technology Institute, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.aticourses.com/blog/index.php/2009/11/18/geo-satellite-question/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dear Dr. Nelson: I understand …stationkeeping must be maintained.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is specifically true for SPS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Potter et al 9 - Associate Technical Fellow at The Boeing Company</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seth, “Space Solar Power Satellite Alternatives and Architectures,” AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/aiaa-2009-0462_ssp_alternatives_potter.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unused GEO orbital …share common platforms</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Layering of GEO allows 47000 slots</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gould 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Len, Comment on the article “Space Based Solar Power?,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/5314]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Just a further note on the "Gould orbits", …(all assuming 100 km separation).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If their link argument is correct, other applications will just go to LEO</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carlo 97 – PhD Candidate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D, “Mobile Satellite Communications,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://home.mira.net/~marcop/mobile.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clearly the satellite had greater …transport of computer traffic.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT:warming good--ice age]]2AC AT:warming good--ice age</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global warming is faster and comparatively worse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chameides 8 – Professor of Environment @ Duke</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bill Chameides, PhD, Yale University, “Pulse of the Planet: A New Ice Age IS Coming ... but Don't Hold Your Breath,” 11-17-2008,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nicholas.duke.edu/thegreengrok/iceage-nature]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Skeptics have been …problem is near term and very significant."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP solves ice age</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hempsell 6 - University of Bristol</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark Hempsell, Mark, “Space power as a response to global catastrophes,” 2006, Acta Astronautica, v. 59, Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One of the common …be used together.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming causes volcanic activity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thompson 7 - MA from GA Tech</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrea Thompson, Graduate from Georgia Tech with a B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences in 2004 and a Master's in the same subject in 2006. 2007, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.livescience.com/environment/070830_gw_quakes.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earthquakes, volcanic …eruptions," McGuire said.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Causes an ice age</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA 98</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/gsfc/service/gallery/fact_sheets/earthsci/eos/volcanoes.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">] Volcanoes and Global Climate Change, Earth Science Enterprise Series/ May</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The eruption of a …s of years," Sparks said.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: warming good-- CO2 ag]]2AC AT: warming good-- CO2 ag</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ag collapsing now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gillis 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Justin Gillis, Editor @ NYT, 6-11-2011, “A Warming Planet Struggles to Feed Itself,” Factiva</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sitting with a… season is also shrinking.”</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Co2 doesn’t boost yields – any growth is short-term and hypothetical</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson 9 – Research molecular biologist @ USDA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eric, 2009, “The international food system and the climate crisis,” The Panama News, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A major weakness … reductions in yield.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – pollution leads to ozone – tanks ag – outweighs any benefit from CO2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Monbiot 7 – Professor @ Oxford</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">George, Professor @ Oxford Brookes University, Heat: How to Stop the Planet from Burning, pg. 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But now, I am sorry to say… dioxide concentrations.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: heg bad]]2AC AT: heg bad</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Heg deters China and leads to stabilization allowing a political solution to be brokered.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Odgaard 2001</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Liselotte, Asst Prof, of Political Science, University of Aarhus, Denmark, “Deterrence and Co-operation in the South China Sea”, Contemporary Southeast Asia, Aug 1, lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The South China …co-operative ties with China</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg solves terrorism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schmitt 6</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gary, Scholar @ The American Enterprise Institute, Pax Americana, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eng.gees.org/articulo/6/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The core argument …absence of such power."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorism doesn’t pose an existential risk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fettweis, Professor of Political Science, 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chris, Professor of Political Science @ Tulane,Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy, Survival, 52:2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even terrorists equipped …represent existential threats</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline leads to terrorism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John Thomas, Professor of Economics, January 18 2008, Becker-Posner Blog, Accessed April 8 2008, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.becker-posner-blog.com/archives/2008/01/terrorism_and_e.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However lack of …any means necessarily.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: dedev]]2AC AT: dedev</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP solves limits to growth and makes growth benign—solves the turns</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collins and Autino 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic development in space …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to preserve civilised society [22,27].</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Decline leads to failed states—makes Trainer’s conserver society impossible</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rothkopf 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David, Visiting Fellow @ Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, 3/11/9. CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The crisis eats ….national interests worldwide.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yoo 5</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John, Professor of Law, University of California at Berkeley School of Law, Failed States, Int’l Colloquium, Online</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failed states pose …problem of failed states.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No transition – decline devastates movements</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mead 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2/4, Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Only Makes You Stronger: Why the recession bolstered America, The New Republic</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Every crisis is different… happening yet again.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No Transition</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Barnhizer 6 – Professor @ CSU</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The scale of social …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">consequences of our behavior.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transition/mindset shift hurt the environment</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bast 94</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Bast, president, Heartland Institute, ECO-SANITY, 1994, p. 193</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is time to update …wrong-headed and counterproductive.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The environment is too far gone—there’s only a risk that growth can solve</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin Lewis professor in the School of the Environment and the Center for International Studies at Duke University. Green Delusions, 1992 p18-19</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In marked contrast…of technological progress.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Econ decline leads to environmental collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael Graham, staff writer, Tree Hugger, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.treehugger.com/files/2008/02/4_reasons_recession_bad_environment.php]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As a counter-point to … progress on global warming...</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Decline causes disease</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rice 6</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susan, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Global Economy and Development, The National Security Implications of Global Poverty, Online</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Poverty contributes substantially …among immigrant populations.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Diseases lead to extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fox 97</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. William. Lieutenant COLONEL. 6/24/97. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=4341F68C-1AF1-FEB7-10D7-5EE127216D05&lng=en]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">HIV is a pandemic killer …weapons of mass destruction.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: oil DAs]]2AC AT: oil DAs</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: oil DAs-AT: backstopping]]AT: backstopping</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">None of their ev assumes government support – that solves backstopping</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Henriques and Sadorsky ‘8 (Irene, and Peter, Schulich School of Business in Canada, “Oil prices and the stock prices of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">alternative energy companies,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://isites.harvard.edu/fs/docs/icb.topic741392.files/EnergyStockPrices.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Energy Economics 30 (2008) 998–1010, AM)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investors in technology have …alternative energy related products.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: oil DAs-AT: Russian oil DA-- economy]]AT: Russian oil DA-- economy</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Oil not key to Russian economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy Bulletin 07 – International news group that discusses recourse, energy and other issues (“Russia to reform national economy to get rid of oil dependence,” June 22, 2007, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/31278]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the other hand, … plants running on coal only.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turn – oil collapses Russian investment diversity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Glatthorn 11 – Haley, Daily Staff Reporter (March, 2011, “Rice Discusses International Dynamics of Oil Dependency,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.michigandaily.com/news/condoleezza-rice-talks-alternative-energy-oil-lecture]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Michigan Daily)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rice gave the annual College … so dependent on these countries.”</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: oil DAs-AT: Saudi Arabia oil DA]]AT: Saudi Arabia oil DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Saudi Arabia is prepared for a shift to renew</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tenders Info, 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Saudi Arabia : Aramco sees growing role for renewables in global energy mix, 5/7/10, Nexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Saudi Arabia s national oil … and the Middle East to Europe.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-2AC AT: oil DAs-AT: Iran oil DA]]AT: Iran oil DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sanctions have already collapsed Iranian oil—even if prices increase, no one will do business with them</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bozorgmehr 11 Ford Foundation Visiting Fellow with Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings Institute (4/21/11, Najmeh, Financial Times, “Iran oil impasse takes toll”, Lexis SW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Oil and gas-rich …</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a western oil executive says.</span>





= = 


=Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Cybersecurity (politics DA at Harvard)]]Cybersecurity (politics DA at Harvard)</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s TOA and Bipartisan</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Washington Post 2/17</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/checkpoint-washington/post/divisions-erupt-over-cybersecurity-bill/2012/02/17/gIQAG348IR_blog.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The legislation was …sides of the aisle.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS drains Political Capital- influential energy lobbies ensure massive battle</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preble 06, Darel, Space Solar Power Institute, “Introduction to the motion to the National Space Society Board of Directors,” 12/15 NM</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Changing our nation …breaking a few eggs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Presidential leadership key – needs to cut bargains</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chabrow 1-26-12 – executive editor of GovInfoSecurity.com, a leading website that covers government cybersecurity, Eric, The State of the Union's Cybersecurity, Gov Info Security</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This statement received… cybersecurity legislation passed.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cybersecurity k/t solve miscalc</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sebastian 9 Rohan Sebastian, research for the office of Virginia Senator Mark Warner CS Computer Science from UVA., The Federal Government’s Role in Preserving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure, 7-24,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.sts.virginia.edu/pip/docs/papers/Sebastian_09_r.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Critical Infrastructure Government …with this problem.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cyber miscalc escalates to nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lawson 9 (Sean, PhD, expert in information-age warfare. "Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation" 13 May. www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The reason, in …or greater seriousness.” [7]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dead Hand cards from block</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Happens Quickly- Cyber conflict leads to crisis instability – encourages fast escalation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clarke 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The launch on …itchy keyboard finger.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That triggers nuclear war – leads to dead hand launch</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fritz 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A study commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Hacking Nuclear Command and Control Jason Fritz BS (St. Cloud), July 2009</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Direct control of launch… Soviet leadership and military.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rosenbaum 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ron Rosenbaum, award winning journalist and author, 8/31/2007. “The Return of the Doomsday Machine?” Slate,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.slate.com/id/2173108/pagenum/all/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"The nuclear doomsday …1985. It is still in place."</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Pay Roll Tax Cuts DA-- Iran scenario]]Pay Roll Tax Cuts DA-- Iran scenario</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gives Obama a boost in the polls</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moberg 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David. Staff Writer, “Will Obama’s Job Plan Save His?” In These Times,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://inthesetimes.com/article/12163/will_obamas_job_plan_save_his]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if …not insignificant edge.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That solves an attack on Iran</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Akram 1-11 - former Pakistan ambassador to the UN</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1/11/2012, Munir, “The road to another war,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dawn.com/2012/01/11/the-road-to-another-war.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A second concern …all right-thinking policymakers.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hirsch 5 – physics professor, Ph.D., University of Chicago</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nov 21, Jorge, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Bush administration …many times over.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Clean tech DA]]Clean tech DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cleantech investment is increasing now – perception of demand is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Asset International 12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Investors to Pursue Clean Tech Private Equity Despite Challenges, Paper Says,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ai-cio.com/channel/NEWSMAKERS/Investors_to_Pursue_Clean_Tech_Private_Equity_Despite_Challenges,_Paper_Says.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Institutional investors and …clean energy solutions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan shifts this investment into SSP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PREF 11 - non‐profit organization whose mission is to bring renewable energy into the mainstream of the US economy and lifestyle through research, education, convening, and communications</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance, “Venture Capital’s Role in the US Renewable Energy Sector,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://reffwallstreet.com/us-pref/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/US-PREF-Venture-Capital-White-Paper-Version-v2.1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Venture capital as …requirements of new companies.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Klarevas 9 – Professor of Global Affairs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony”, Huffington Post, 12-15, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By not addressing …foes in check.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-SSP interference DA]]SSP interference DA</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS leads to interference – hurts asteroid detection, leads to light pollution and collapses GPS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weigel 7 – Assistant Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyAnnalisa, “Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” November, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://lean.mit.edu/docman/2007-conference-papers/view-category.htmlA]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> major concern about the … SPS would create light pollution.32</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matheny 7– former associate at Oxford, MPJ from HopkinsJason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htmEven]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China DA]]China DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US-China Space Cooperation is Increasing Now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang, associate professor of political science @ Lingnan University, 11 (Baohui, Asian Survey, March/April, Proquest)Christopher Griffin and …of opportunity for arms control in outer space.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Is Perceived as Hostile by China</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shixiu 7 - senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA [Bao, Winter 2007, China Security, “Emerging Threat,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf)The]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> U.S. position makes another …China and the United States.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This Hostility Spirals to a US-China War Over Taiwan</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solomone 6 (Stacey, PhD student @ the Future Studies Program @ the U of Hawaii, Journal of Contemporary China, Volume 15, Issue 47, Taylor & Francis)PLA control of the space program may …to further illegal exportation of WMD from China.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War over Taiwan causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Straits Times 00</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ching Cheong, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.THE high-intensity scenario …above everything else.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Pay roll tax cuts good]]Pay roll tax cuts good</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama is aggressively pushing his jobs agenda --- smaller initiatives like the payroll tax reduction are gaining republican support and are likely to passAP 10/25 “For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5efLOS]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ANGELES (AP) — The president who ran for office promising sweeping change now finds ….affect individual communities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LINK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PC is key to extension</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Inquirer, 9-8-2011</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-taxPresident]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Obama goes into Thursday's big speech… major effort to privatize Social Security.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extension is key to preventing a recession</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zandi, Chief Economist of Moody's Analytics, 10/7, 2011,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MSNBC: Intervew With Moddy's Chief Economist Mark Zandi, MSNBCZANDI: Well, republican …quickly in the very near term.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another recession causes complete economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shiller 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert J. Shiller is a professor of economics and finance at Yale and a co-founder and the chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC., NYT, 5/16/10, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/business/16view.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I use a definition of a double-dip …event, the Great Depression.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear warHarris and Burrows 9Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global ConflictOf course, the report encompasses more than economics …in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-NASA trade off]]NASA trade off</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Holdren 11 – Director office of Science and Tech policy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 2-17)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) This past October, the President signed the 2010 … support for the operations of the ISS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It will take billions of dollars to develop deflection mechanisms</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Campbell 2 – Colonel USAFR</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(December, Jonathan W., “Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection”pg. 30)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Several schemes have …impact to be implemented.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Killeen 5 – Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">) NAR</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite… simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for global …cultural and political changes.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)]]China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China Looking to Expand to Cyberwarfare Now But It’s Focus is Elsewhere Now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schroeder, department of security studies @ American Military University, 10 (David A., November, pg.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://das.doit.wisc.edu/amu/Schroeder_China_Cyber_NOV10.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China is a … perhaps deserves.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Causes China to Shift to Cyberwarefare Activities</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sayers and Dressler 9 (Eric, graduate of the Political Science M.A. program at The University of Western Ontario, and Jeffrey, January 29, pg.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/076oeyqy.asp?page=2]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perhaps the greatest …satellite capabilities with allies.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)-2NC cards]]2NC cards</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IMPACTS:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cyberwar Attack Causes China To Take Out Our Space Assets</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RAND 10/11/11 (Rand Corporation, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sino-U.S. cyber-war … be no “winner.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Happens Quickly- Cyber conflict leads to crisis instability – encourages fast escalation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clarke 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The launch on …itchy keyboard finger.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collapses the Economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chen, et. al 2 (Ruoxi, December 1, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cs.duke.edu/courses/fall03/cps182s/oldproj/rc17_1/finalpaper.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prior to the … of service attacks.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That triggers nuclear war – leads to dead hand launch</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fritz 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A study commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Hacking Nuclear Command and Control Jason Fritz BS (St. Cloud), July 2009</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Direct control of …leadership and military.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rosenbaum 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ron Rosenbaum, award winning journalist and author, 8/31/2007. “The Return of the Doomsday Machine?” Slate,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.slate.com/id/2173108/pagenum/all/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"The nuclear doomsday …still in place."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AT: US prepared</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Hasn’t Hardened Our Cyberwarfare Defenses</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brenner 9/6/11 (Joel, has served as the inspector general of the national security agency, pg.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/06/the_calm_before_the_storm?page=0,1]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States does …a high order.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US isn’t prepared and there’s an invisible threshold</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fisher 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Max Fisher, Staff at the Atlantic, 9-30-2010, Fmr. Intelligence Director: New Cyberattack May Be Worse Than 9/11,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/09/fmr-intelligence-director-new-cyberattack-may-be-worse-than-9-11/63849/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Speaking at the Washington …to cybersecurity threats.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US military is highly vulnerable to cyber attack</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clarke 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth, the U. S. Military …Internet, may not be.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LINKS:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Plan Frees Up Resources Elsewhere</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sayers 10 (Eric, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-58/JFQ58_89-93_Sayers.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although a dissuasion .. missiles, for example.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Dissuasion Theory Means They’ll Look Elsewhere</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Krepinevich and Martinage 8 (Andrew and Robert, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2008.05.06-Dissuasion-Strategy.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if the “right” …achieves its first-order goal.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-orbital slots DA]]orbital slots DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan leads to conflicts over orbital slots</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wallach 10 – JD, Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, where he serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneysMark, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.htmlAnother]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> major, yet still largely … used to make those decisions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That leads to space miscalculation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Klotz 99 - Commander, Air Force Global Strike CommandFrank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4The scramble for geosynchronous slots … infrastructure-is a case in point.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)A]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‍</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-F35 Trade Off DA]]F35 Trade Off DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) F-35 Survives Now But Still Vulnerable</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burnett 11 (… Richard, Orlando Sentinel, June 27, Lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Lockheed Martin Corp. F-35 road … first 32 next-generation fighter jets.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Specifically, It Trades Off with Funding for the F-35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 6 (Taylor, February 27, The Space … , pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s time to admit that … other mission elements are getting.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) F-35 Key to US-Japan Relations</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Azuma 11 (Andrew, August 2, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://blog/|http://blog]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.… /2011/08/bolstering-japans-defenses-with-f-35s/)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This December, the Japanese Air … closer strategic and tactical cooperation.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A strong US-Japanese alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Armitage 00</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Major war in Europe is … to America’s global security strategy.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Japan DA]]Japan DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS coming now – key to Japanese leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matai 10 – PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutionsDK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3Awww.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php|http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php In the footsteps of Nikola Tesla, Japan intends to send …final frontier in the 21st century and beyond!</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weather monitoring requires GEO because the satellites stay over one part of the earth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GIS Lab 8“Natural Hazards: Remote Sensing,” Remote Sensing, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.gis.unbc.ca/resources/geog100.phpEarth]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> monitoring satellites have one …weather satellites(such as NIMBUS and GOES). Altitude ~ 36,000kmThat’s an opportunity cost// with SPSPC 5Political Calculations, 6-29-2005, “Power from Space,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://politicalcalculations.blogspot.com/2005/06/power-from-space.htmlSecond]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, the opportunity cost…generating power from space.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese leadership is key to Asian multilateralism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsiao and Yang 9 - * Ph.D., is the Executive Director of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS), and Research Fellow at the Institute of Sociology, both at Academia Sinica, Taiwan, Ph.D., is the Postdoctoral Fellow of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS) at Academia Sinica, Taiwan. His areas of specialization include international relations theory, Asia-Pacific regionalism and ASEANMichael and Alan, “Soft Power Politics in the Asia Pacific: Chinese and Japanese Quests for Regional Leadership,” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-A_-Yang/3054Another]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> dimension of Japan’s soft power strategy towards ASEAN …Japan and corroborate the efficacy of Tokyo’s soft power diplomacy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That solves Asian territorial conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nanto 8 – Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs SpecialistSpecialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services, East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdfA stronger regional security organization in East Asia… haunt policy makers in Asian countries.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Chakraborty 10United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739The]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> first ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus Eight (…possibility of turning into a nuclear conflict.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Japan DA 2NC cards]]Japan DA 2NC cards</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Asian conflict escalates to global nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dibb 1 – Professor @ Australian National UniversityPaul, Professor @ Australian National University, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, ProquestThe areas of maximum …confronted with major crises.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Territorial conflicts are more likely than any affirmative conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wiegand 11 – Professor of Political Science @ Georgia SouthernKrista, “Militarized territorial disputes: States’ attempts to transfer reputation for resolve,” Journal of Peace Research, 48.1, SageThe most …escalation of MIDs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Territorial conflicts Turns disease</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Valeriano et al 9 – Professor of Political Science @ UICBrandon, “Triggers of Deadly International Conflict: A Social Informatics Early Warning and Monitoring System for Territorial Disputes,” Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Network European of Peace Scientists, Amsterdam, Netherlands, June 28-31, 2009, ScholarWar is an important ..Senese and Vasquez 2003, 2005).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Asian multilateralism solves disease– Asia is ground-zero for new mutations</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Green, Professor of IR, and Gill, PhD in Foreign Affairs, 9J</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael and Bates, Asia's New Multilateralism: Cooperation, Competition, and the Search for Community, pg. 310-311Since the Asia-wide outbreak of …organized for such an eventuality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Asian multilateralism solves global warming</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christoffersen, Professor of Political Science, 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gaye, November, US-China Energy Relations and Energy Institution Building in the Asia-Pacific, Journal of Contemporary China, InformaWorld</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US initiated the ..said it could only do this gradually.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP Solves warming-induced extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsu 10 – PhD in EngineeringFeng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.htmlIt]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> has become increasingly evident that …a chance to make a difference.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese leadership solves terorism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Okada 5 - Secretary General of the Democratic Party of JapanKatsuya, “Toward Realization of Enlightened National Interest—Living Harmoniously with Asia and the World”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dpj.or.jp/vision/vision-e/summary.htmlIn]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> this highly globalized …the intelligence institutions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP guarantees Japanese political influence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Glaser 93 Peter, Space Consultant, Space Future,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/japan_the_21st_centurys_energy_supplier.shtmlJapan]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> has the capability …political influence globally.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japan is currently on the inside track- abandoning that would abdicate it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cox 11 – JD, Public Interest LawyerWilliam, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.consortiumnews.com/2011/032311b.htmlIn]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japan, the radiation plume …highly motivated to change directions.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese development is key to Japanese soft power</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Funabashi 95 – PhD from Keio, Former Professor @ Tokyo Public Policy Institute</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yoichi, “Japan's International Agenda,” pg. 79</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If an argument based on soft …hegemon capable of exercising co-optive power.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese ownership is uniquely key to leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And yet the tremendous ..population into its socio-political camp.</span>









<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US hegemony is ineffective in Asia</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hachigan 10 – Senior Fellow at American Progress, Senior political scientist at RAND Corporation, Director of the RAND Center for Asia Pacific Policy, International affairs fellowship from the Council on Foreign Relations, National Security Council at the White House</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nina, “The False Promise of Primacy in US Foreign Policy”, World Focus, January 22, 2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://worldfocus.org/blog/2010/01/22/the-false-promise-of-primacy-in-us-foreign-policy/9372/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One unquestionable success of the Obama…— progress must be shared.”</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multilateralism is comparatively more effective than unilateral leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Khanna 10 - Parag, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“How’s that New World Order Working Out?” 11/29</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/hows_that_new_world_order_working_out?page=full]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The closest thing we have to…bottom up rather than the top down.</span>









<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS requires substantial slot allocation – interference concerns means that slots can’t be duplicated</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NRC 81</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Resource Council, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/1981NRC-ElectricPowerFromOrbit-1.Report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p. 92-93</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There are at least …SPS satellite and rectennas.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GEO slots are extremely limited – the plan leads to competition over slots</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scheraga 87 - Senior Advisor for Climate Change Adaptation at U.S. Environmental Protection Agency</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joel, “ESTABLISHING PROPERTY RIGHTS IN OUTER SPACE,” CATO Journal 6.3, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj6n3/cj6n3-10.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A geosynchronous satellite ….can occupy this 75-degree arc.</span>









<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japan is leading the field now</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All Gov 11</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Is Space Solar the Solution to World Energy Problems?,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.allgov.com/Unusual_News/ViewNews/Is_Space_Solar_the_Solution_to_World_Energy_Problems_110327]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In light of recent energy-related …power plant can produce.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans]]Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Aerospace Tax Credit CP]]Aerospace Tax Credit CP</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should create a permanent tax credit for the aerospace industry for research and development related to airframe and engage technologies.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The CP solves the largest internal link to aerospace competitiveness—empirically tax incentives produce cutting-edge technologies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FAAC 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Department of Transportation’s recommendations via the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee to Congress, The Aviation Advisory Committee provides information, advice, and recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation on ensuring the competitiveness of the U.S. aviation industry and its capability to address the evolving transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of the global economy. 2010;</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dot.gov/faac/FAAC_Recommendations.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; JN)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RECOMMENDATION # 2 RESEARCH AND …leadership in clean technologies.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Stratosphere CP]]Stratosphere CP</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Stratosphere CP-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should deploy and maintain constellations of stratospheric balloon platform satellites for climate monitoring.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stratospheric balloons dedicated to Earth Science observation solves the aff -- the technology exists – a constellation of StratoSats solves better faster and cheaper</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pankine et al 2009</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS” American Meteorological Society</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/pdf/10.1175/2009BAMS2624.1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Alexey Pankine, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California and Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California Zhanqing Li, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Parson, UCAR, Boulder, Colorado Michael Purucker, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Elliot Weinstock, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts Warren Wiscombe, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. And Kerry Nock, Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At present, no investment is being …dimly perceived are certain to emerge.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Stratosphere CP-block]]block</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">StratoSat observations eliminate uncertainty over warming and disease</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pankine et al 2009</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS” American Meteorological Society</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/pdf/10.1175/2009BAMS2624.1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Alexey Pankine, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California and Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California Zhanqing Li, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Parson, UCAR, Boulder, Colorado Michael Purucker, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Elliot Weinstock, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts Warren Wiscombe, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. And Kerry Nock, Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There are several potential …hundreds of such dropsondes.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">StratoSat monitoring improves circulation models and in situ data both are key to more accurate early warning of weather phenomena</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nock et al 2002</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[K.T. Nock, M.K. Heun, K.M. Aaron, Global Aerospace Corporation, Universities Space Research Association Research Contract,” Global Constellation of Stratospheric Scientific Platforms: Phase II Final Report,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/397Nock.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Because airborne products of …accurate predictions will be available.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Privatization CP]]Privatization CP</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that substantially increases the United States’ civil space situational awareness and establish a spectrum policy that supports property rights and individual and corporate rights in space.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twenty five year tax exemption solves innovation and is the BEST way to spur private development.Hudgins 2004 (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of Regulation magazine, is an expert on the regulation of space and transportation, pharmaceuticals, and labor. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)Or]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> consider a radical approach …us a truly space-faring civilization.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-visas CP]]visas CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should provide employment-based visas to graduates who earn a Masters or PhD degree from an accredited U.S. university in a science, technology, engineering or math field of study.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplan solves – matching green cards with diplomas restores innovation, growth, and leadershipFrank, 09 (T.A, Irvine Fellow at the New America Foundation and an editor of theWashington Monthly, Green Cards for Grads, Washington Monthly, May/June 2009,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2009/0905.frank.html)For]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> years, the United States effortlessly … for soldiers. It’s to avoid getting one’s ass kicked.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Retaining Foreign student is key to science leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CFR, 09 (Council on Foreign Relations, Broken Immigration System Risks Serious Damage to U.S. National Interests, Warns CFR Task Force, July 8, 2009,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/19743/broken_immigration_system_risks_serious_damage_to_us_national_interests_warns_cfr_task_force.html)-Attracting]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> skilled immigrants:The United States … bolster U.S. military capabilities.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‍</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Russia CP v. asteroids]]Russia CP v. asteroids</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The government of the Russian Federation should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects. The government of the Russian Federation will share technological and research capabilities with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on asteroid detection. The government of the Russian Federation will build geographically analogous research sites to the Arecibo and Goldstone telescopes.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Russian space program can deflect asteroids</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2010 (RusData Line, “Russia is developing equipment for exploration of a potentially dangerous asteroid,” May 19)</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-elections CP v. Obama election good advantage]]elections CP v. Obama election good advantage</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Republican Party should nominate Andy Martin for the 2012 presidential election.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">He’s unelectable – ensures an Obama win</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AZ Marijuana, 12-6-2011, “Republican Candidates’ Views on Marijuana,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://azmarijuana.com/dans-stash/republican-candidates-views-marijuana/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin not only supports …the most unelectable GOP candidate.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-DSCVR CP v. solar sails]]DSCVR CP v. solar sails</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should upgrade the Deep Space Climate Observatory to include earth-monitoring and climate measurements and accept Ukraine’s offer to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counterplan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spaceflight Now 11 (Feb 21 “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The White House … solar maximum in 2013.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact turns]]Impact turns</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact turns-1NC heg bad]]1NC heg bad</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Primacy will be impossible to sustain – dollar, fiscal pressure, rising challengers, overstretch</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Layne 10 (Christopher Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A&M's George H.W. Bush School of Government & Public Service. "Graceful decline: the end of Pax Americana". The American Conservative. May 2010.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">) AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China's economy has been … themselves afflicted with hegemony fatigue.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Your authors are pessimists – great power decline brings concessions and alliancesMacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In this article, we question the logic … failed to retrench recovered their relative position.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg doesn’t solve war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christopher Preble (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/Most]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> in Washington still embraces … fly-over country pick up the tab.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Heg causes terrorism – US presence in the Middle East and 9/11 proves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Layne 9 (Christopher, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, Review of International Studies (2009), 5/25/9, “America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived”, Cambridge Journals,)Terrorist organisations like Al-Qaeda …, staying in Iraq will exacerbate it.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorists will acquire nuclear material- this would trigger an immediate reactionary response escalating into global nuclear war and the destruction of human civilization.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morgan 9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk U of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus South Korea, Futures, December, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Volume 41, Issue 10, pp 683-693)In a remarkable website on nuclear war, … accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Impact turns-2NC heg bad]]2NC heg bad</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. withdrawal and a concurrent shift to multipolarity would prevent American involvement in major power wars.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christopher Layne (Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University) 2006 “The Peace of Illusions” p 170</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By devolving full responsibility … definition of U.S. interests.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*Historically, declining power don`t go to war – when they do, wars aren’t global</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Based on our universe of cases, … with the benefit of hindsight.</span>









<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Primacy is a collision course with China – conflict inevitable</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Layne 7 Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007 ["The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 73-74 ]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To be sure, the United States … is virtually certain.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leads to extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ching, 2k</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ching Cheong, senior journalist at The Straits Times and author of two books on Taiwan, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates … sovereignty above everything else.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg leads to a Sino-Russia Alliance that culminates in superpower nuclear conflict</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roberts 07 Economist and Former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Paul Craig, “US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.antiwar.com/roberts/?articleid=11422]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This week the Russian and Chinese militaries … the world has seen since Hitler's.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks]]Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Confessions K]]Confessions K</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*we read this against a narrative aff</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science fiction conflates fantasy with fact—this uniquely undermines civic engagement and destroys scientific eduction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kluger 7/11/11 - senior writer for TIME (Jeffery, “ Scientific Illiteracy After the Shuttle: Are America's Smartest Days Behind Her?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2082213,00.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The problem is, the land of the …U.S. is going to keep its edge.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science is necessary for freedom and technological innovation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taggart 10 PhD and philosophical counselor, Andrew “With what authority does a public philosopher speak?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.butterfliesandwheels.org/2010/with-what-authority-does-a-public-philosopher-speak/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth, neither can he from scientific sources.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They can’t meet falsifiable review- only a scientific approach produces the best epistemology and can avert extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Supernatural forces and …Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Sci Fi Methods K]]Sci Fi Methods K</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*we rea this against a critical aliens aff</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science fiction conflates fantasy with fact—this uniquely undermines civic engagement and destroys scientific eduction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kluger 7/11/11 - senior writer for TIME (Jeffery, “ Scientific Illiteracy After the Shuttle: Are America's Smartest Days Behind Her?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2082213,00.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The problem is, the land of the …U.S. is going to keep its edge.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science is necessary for freedom and technological innovation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taggart 10 PhD and philosophical counselor, Andrew “With what authority does a public philosopher speak?”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.butterfliesandwheels.org/2010/with-what-authority-does-a-public-philosopher-speak/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth, neither can he from scientific sources.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They can’t meet falsifiable review- only a scientific approach produces the best epistemology and can avert extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Supernatural forces and …Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Sci Fi Cap K]]Sci Fi Cap K</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">*we read this against a critical aliens aff</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science fiction is a commodity – it’s packaged and manipulated by profit-driven publishers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elkins and Suvin 1979 – former editor of Science Fiction Studies AND Professor Emeritus at McGill University (November, Charles and Darko, “ Preliminary Reflections on Teaching Science Fiction Critically ” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 6, No. 3, JSTOR)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SF shares with other …of an anti-rational kind (see Roland Barthes' Mythologies).</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap causes endless genocide and spurs violent resistance that kills millions in the name of resource expansion.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jalata 11 – Professor of Sociology & Global Studies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Asafa, January 24th 2011, “Terrorism from Above and Below in the Age of Globalization”, p.1-4) NAR</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As capitalism developed… groups affected by it.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carroll 10 – *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the most …subalterns to their subordination (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Exceptionalism K]]Exceptionalism K</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative’s unilateral approach to space reifies exceptionalism –</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Billings 7 – Professor @ GWU</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Linda, “Societal Impact of Space Flight,” p. 483-484</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ideas of frontier pioneering, continual …is the act of arguing in favor of a cause, idea, or policy.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 3 – Professor of Political Science @ Penn</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University, “Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership”, p. 166-169</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is certainly important to oppose …William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s nationalistic representations – this is a pre-requisite</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Billings 6 – Professor @ GWU in Media and Public Affiars</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” 2-3-2006,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Facing an opportunity to…, why we should be going into space.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The role of the ballot is to investigate methodology before policy recommendations – rejecting nationalism creates an accurate research agenda that advances shared human interest</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beck and Szaider 6 – Professor of Sociology, Professor @ Tel Aviv</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ulrich, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, Natan, Professor at The Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo “Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda” The British Journal of Sociology, 5.1,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.promusica.se/Library/Electronic%20texts/Beck_Sznaider2006.pdf]]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Methodological nationalism takes the following ….want to avoid becoming a museum of antiquated ideas.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-ORS case turns]]ORS case turns</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-ORS case turns-information overload(1NC)]]information overload(1NC)</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased information causes commanders to be indefinite about decision making- leads to paralysis and turns heg</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cotton 5- Lieutenant Colonel Anthony J. Cotton, United States Air Force, Dr. William G. Pierce Project Adviser, Usawc Strategy Research Project Information Technology – Information Overload for Strategic Leaders, 18 March 2005 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA431929]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Information overload has flooded …it may not be desirable.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-ORS case turns-overconfidence turn (1NC)]]overconfidence turn (1NC)</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">aff’s Overconfidence undermines rational checks on conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Johnson and Tierney 11 – *PhD in Evolutionary Biology and Political Science, Reader @ Edinburgh in Scotland, **Professor of Political Science @ Swarthmore</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dominic, Dominic, “The Rubicon Theory of War: How the Path to Conflict Reaches the Point of No Return,” International Security, 36.1, Muse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When people perceive …no obvious rational explanation.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Private contracts aff case turns]]Private contracts aff case turns</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Private contracts aff case turns-1NC debris/weaponization]]1NC debris/weaponization</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Commercial development of space leads to militarization</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Salin 2001 (Patrick A, Professor at the Institute of Air and Space Law McGill University, Montreal, Canada, “Privatization and militarization in the space business environment,” Space Policy 17 (2001) 19}26 Online)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have tried to underline the …attention than they are now [48].</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turns case—weaponization makes the aff impossible</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mitchell et al, 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A buildup of space weapons… military conflict ever seen.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space privatization leads to a debris cloud blocking all access to space</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gagnon 4 (Bruce Gagnon is the coordinator for Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, Impact Press, Fall,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.impactpress.com/articles/augsep04/space8904.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The news brings us …space before it is too late.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Private contracts aff case turns-block cards weaponization]]block cards weaponization</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Limited warfare and escalation control don’t apply in space</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Krepon, 3 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The inherent escalatory potential …than in dominance and compellance.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weaponization turns US-Russia war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NYT 2007 (NY Times Europe, “Russia issues warning on space-based weapons” 2007,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/27/world/europe/27iht-russia.4.7662417.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MOSCOW — The chief of Russia's …effort to deafen and blind it."</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space arms race leads to accidental wars/ runaway prolif</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ross 09 - Reporter for the Chicago Daily News [Sherwood Ross, “Space Race Increasing Risk of Nuclear War,” Atlantic Free Press, Saturday, 04 April 2009 08:21, pg. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.atlanticfreepress.com/news/1/8948-space-race-increasing-risk-of-nuclear-war.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//edlee]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An unchecked race to militarize space… of nuclear war,” he said.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space militarization kills investment, crucial to development and the economy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kaufman 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Vice-chair of economists for peace and security, Director of Bethseda Research Institute, former counsel of the Join Economic Committee of the US Congress, “Space, Security, and the Economy,” September 2008]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.epsusa.org/publications/papers/spacesecurity.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There has been rapid growth …private commercial space projects.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Topicality]]Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Topicality-"Its" v. private contracts aff]]"Its" v. private contracts aff</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Interpretation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Its” is possessive.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">English Grammar 5 (Glossary of English Grammar Terms, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Violation- the plan increases the ability of private companies to develop space- that’s distinct from federally owned projects</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. It’s a voting issue-</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Limits—allowing private companies explodes the topic- infinite possibilities for extension of legal frameworks into space means that we would need to prep out case negs to each different legal chance-</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Ground—All core DA links are based off direct increases in exploration and development.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. The aff is FX T—it doesn’t fiat anything going into space: their advantages are based off of effects that the plan would have, not the action of the plan itself.</span>
==Politics Links== 
===Weaponization links=== 
Weaponization causes Congressional backlash --- there’s broad, bipartisan opposition
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moltz 2 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(James Clay, Research Professor and Associate Director – Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “Breaking the Deadlock on Space Arms Control”, Arms Control Today, April, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2002_04/moltzapril02]])</span>
//<span style="font-size: 11px;">Where Does Congress Stand? </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">The same </span>Congress<span style="font-size: 11px;"> that boosted …do not want to be painted as “anti-missile defense.” Thus, a search to create new alternatives to the existing options and arguments must be undertaken. </span>

===Space guard links=== 
The creation of a Space guard would tank political capital
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Bennett 11</span> — author of The Anglosphere Challenge (Rowman and Littlefield, 2004), has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades (Winter 2011, James C., "Proposing a 'Coast Guard' for Space," The New Atlantis, Number 30, Winter 2011, pp. 50-68. http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space)
<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">Creating a Space Guard</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> on this model </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">would involve substantial …we must ask not just what problems it might solve but also which political actors might benefit sufficiently to justify the expenditure of their capital.</span>__</span>

===Budget links=== 
**Plan is perceived as unnecessary spending**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
__Whether the DOD will decide to develop any …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> built five to 10 years ago, and keeping it in storage does not appear to support a winning space strategy.</span>

Budgeting for the plan burns political capital --- Obama will have to fight to negotiate a deal even if the program is popular
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hedman 2005 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Eric R., Chief Technology Officer – Logic Design Corporation, “The Politics and Ethics of Spending Money on Space Exploration”, The Space Review, 12-19, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/520/1]])</span>
<span class="underline0">I would like to see NASA get a significant extra …</span>to push our agenda<span class="underline0"> just as other people push theirs. </span>

Congress will oppose funding for space exploration
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whittington 11</span> (Mark Whittington, “White House and Congress Clash Over NASA Funding, Space Cooperation with China”, [[http://old.news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110508/pl_ac/8438927_white_house_and_congress_clash_over_nasa_funding_space_cooperation_with_china]])
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">The distrust Congress holds toward the … exploration program </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">and a </span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">lack of leadership on the part of the president.</span>

Plan spends political capital --- Obama will have to push space exploration/development through Congressional opposition
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Powell 2009 </span>(Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]])
NASA supporters are bracing for a<span class="underline0">n uphill </span>battle to get<span class="underline0"> ….</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> Accident Investigation Board. “</span>The president has to use some portion of his p<span class="underline0">olitical </span>c<span class="underline0">apital </span>to put forward a<span class="underline0">n Obama </span>space program<span class="underline0">.” </span>

==RR Round 2 Negative Versus Greenhill SU== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__K__**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The affirmative’s unilateral approach to space reifies exceptionalism – </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Billings 7</span>** – Professor @ GWU
Linda, “Societal Impact of Space Flight,” p. 483-484
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The ideas of frontier pioneering, continual …is the act of arguing in favor of a cause, idea, or policy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The impact is extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Smith 3 </span>**– Professor of Political Science @ Penn
Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University, “Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership”, p. 166-169
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">It is certainly important to oppose …William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s nationalistic representations – this is a pre-requisite</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Billings 6</span>** – Professor @ GWU in Media and Public Affiars
Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” 2-3-2006, http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Facing an opportunity to…, why we should be going into space.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__SKFTA DA__**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Obama’s renewed push means SKFTA passes soon</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Reuters, 9/2</span>/11,** http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade- idUSTRE7814CZ20110902
After a slow start that has …interest in eventually joining the pact.

**Political capital is actually key**
**Wharton** School of the University of Pennsylvania **1/12**/11 ("U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?," http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671)
With Portman now in the Senate and other pro-trade Republicans in key positions -- such as new Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Majority Whip Eric Cantor of Virginia -- it is tempting …on the China trade" as a key target.

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Changes to space policy cost political capital—empirically true</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Young 2008 </span>**(Anthony, Author – The Saturn V F-1 Engine: Powering Apollo into History, “Review: Spaceflight and the Myth of Presidential Leadership”, The Space Review, 9-29, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1218/1)
The authors in this book put forth the …<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">of what the next US president will promote and achieve.</span>

**Failing to pass SKFTA tanks the alliance**
**Cooper et al 11-** *Specialist in International Trade and Finance, Specialist in Asian Affairs, *Specialist in Agricultural Policy, Specialist in Industrial Organization and Business
(March, *William H. Cooper, **Mark E. Manyin,** *Remy Jurenas, Michaela D. Platzer “The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf)
In contrast, while the passage of the KORUS …than economic, relations.

**Alliance is k/t Asian stability**
**Kim 3-** senior associate at the Center for Strategic an=d International Studies, professor of international affairs at Myongji University
(Winter, Seung-Hwan, The Washington Quarterly, “Anti-Americanism in Korea,” The Washington Quarterly, http://www.thewashingtonquarterly.com/03winter/docs/03winter_kim.pdf)
__The future of the U.S.-Korean …regional growth and development were jeopardized__.

**Asian war leads goes nuclear, draws in great powers, escalates quickly**
**Dibb 1- head of the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre in the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, The Australian National University**
(Paul, Naval War College Review, Winter, “Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads,” Proquest)s
__The areas of maximum danger and …__when confronted with major crises.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__China DA__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">US-China Space Cooperation is Increasing Now</span>**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Zhang,</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';"> associate professor of political science @ Lingnan University, **11**</span> (Baohui, Asian Survey, March/April, Proquest)
Christopher <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Griffin and</span> …<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">of opportunity for arms control in outer space</span>.

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Plan Is Perceived as Hostile by China</span>**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Shixiu 7</span></span> -** senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA [Bao, Winter 2007, China Security, “Emerging Threat,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf)
The U.S. position makes another …<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">China and the United States</span>.

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">This Hostility Spirals to a US-China War Over Taiwan</span>**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Solomone 6</span></span>** (Stacey, PhD student @ the Future Studies Program @ the U of Hawaii, Journal of Contemporary China, Volume 15, Issue 47, Taylor & Francis)
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">PLA control of the space program may …to further illegal exportation of WMD from China</span>.

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">War over Taiwan causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Straits Times 00</span>**
Ching Cheong, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">THE high-intensity scenario …above everything else.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Privatization CP__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that substantially increases the United States’ civil space situational awareness and establish a spectrum policy that supports property rights and individual and corporate rights in space.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Twenty five year tax exemption solves innovation and is the BEST way to spur private development.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">**Hudgins 2004** (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of //Regulation// magazine, is an expert on the regulation of space and transportation, pharmaceuticals, and labor. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Or consider a radical approach …us a truly space-faring civilization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Counterplan is supported by the senate and corporations</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">**Cohn 10** (Micheal, Editor in chief @ Accounting Today, http://www.accountingtoday.com/news/Astronaut-Senator-Wants-Tax-Breaks-for-Space-55282-1.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Earlier this month, the Senate …rocketry and related undertakings. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Conservatives like tax incentives</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">**Space Politics 11** (Staff Writers, http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/02/09/conservatives-for-commercial-space)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">A group of conservatives calling on …everything the country wants to do in space. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">And the private sector is more than capable of enhancing SSA </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**TendersInfo, 09** (the largest and most comprehensive source of International Tenders, Bids, RFP's, Contracts, Upcoming Projects Information, Procurement News, Buyer Profiles and Bidding Consultancy from the Public Procurement Domain worldwide, “United States : Aerospace Modeling Software offers near-space environment analysis” Lexis Nexus)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Analytical Graphics, Inc…</span> **__and space situational awareness."__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Solving Space Debris</span>**
**Dunstan and Szoka 9** [Practitioner of space and technology law and the director of the Space Frontier Foundation, “Beware of Space Junk: Global Warming Isn’t the Only Major Environment Problem”, [http://www.pff.org/issues-pubs/ps/2009/ps5.14-beware-of-space-junk.html#bb]
Instead, space-faring nations should create an Orbital Debris …Earth and in space.

==**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Infrastructure DA</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Tax incentives will spur development and avoid politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Jobes, 2005</span>** [Douglas, president of the Space Settlement Institute, a think tank dedicated to finding ways to make space settlement , “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development”, The following article appeared in the May/June 2005 issue of Space Times, the Magazine of the American Astronautical Society (AAS), http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/LCRSpaceTimesMay2005.pdf]
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Creating an incentive for private …We can only close our eyes and imagine - and then open them and get to work to make it happen. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">frastructure funding is gaining bipartisan support and will pass soon</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Wasthington Post 10/12/11</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[GOP: the party of maybe? http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/gop-the-party-of-maybe/2011/10/12/gIQANfE1fL_blog.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Less than 24 hours after voting down …</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">“But it’s a match made in Senate heaven.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And PC is key to any job creation measure</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">IHT 8/11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> “Long-term recovery puts Obama's short term at risk”; News Analysis, p. 6</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">If Mr. Black's take is correct and there is little the president can do about jobs, that is more bad news. In a New York Times/CBS News poll released last week, 62 percent of those responding said that creating jobs was the No. 1 priority, while only 29 percent said cutting the deficit should be the top goal. But **__whether Mr. Obama focuses on a short-term stimulus like job creation or long-range steps like deficit reduction, he will still have to beg, exhort and threaten Congress to take action in a meaningful way.__** **__''No matter what we do, it still takes two to tango__**,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House director of communications. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Immediate action on unemployment is necessary to avoid double dip recession</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AP 9/2, 11, http://finance.yahoo.com/news/Employers-add-no-net-jobs-in-apf-4252098583.html?x=0&sec=topStories&pos=main&asset=&ccode</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Analysts say **__the economy cannot continue to expand unless hiring picks up. In the first six months of 2011, growth was measured at an annual rate of 0.7 percent.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Companies are mostly keeping their payrolls intact. They're not laying off many workers, but they're not hiring, either. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Georgia;">Without more jobs to fuel consumer spending, economists say another recession would be inevitable. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of economic growth. Like a wobbling bicycle, "you either reaccelerate or you fall over,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> said James O'Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global. "Something has to give."</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That prevents a depression</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Shiller 5/16 Robert J. Shiller is a professor of economics and finance at Yale and a co-founder and the chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC., NYT, 5/16/11, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/business/16view.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">I use a definition of a double-dip recession that doesn’t emphasize the short term. Instead, I see it as beginning with a recession in which unemployment rises to a high level and then falls at a disappointingly slow rate. Before employment returns to normal, there is a second recession. As long as economic recovery isn’t complete, that’s a double-dip recession, even if there are years between the declines. Under that definition, **__there has been only one serious double-dip recession in the last century__** — and it was serious indeed. **__It started with the 1929-33 recession, which was followed by a recession in 1937-38. Between those declines, the unemployment rate never moved below 12.2 percent. Those two recessions, four years apart, are now typically lumped together as one event, the Great Depression.__** </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]