[[toc]]
=Affirmative - Helium 3= 
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation One – Inherency </span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. Obama’s Space policy ignores the Moon in attempts to explore deep space</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Mark, Author of Children of Apollo and The Last Moonwalker and has written on space subjects for a variety of periodicals, including The Houston Chronicle, The Washington Post, USA Today, the L.A. Times, and The Weekly Standard; “Obama Rolls Our Latest Version of NASA Space Plan”, Associated Content, April 16th, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/2899744/obama_rolls_out_latest_version_of_nasa_pg2.html?cat=9]]</span>)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“Obama announced the newest…with universal enthusiasm.”</span>__//


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. There is currently a shortage of Helium-3 on Earth</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Dana A. Shea, specialist in science and technology policy, and Daniel Morgan, special in science and technology policy, Congressional Research Facility, December 22, 2010, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41419.pdf]])</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“The world is…fields of research.”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should increase its exploration and development of space beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere by mining the moon for helium-3.</span>**


**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation Two - Nuclear Forensics</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. U.S. Nuclear Forensics Capabilities Are In Danger Due To Lack Of Helium-3</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Matthew L. Wald, International Herald Tribune Correspondent, November 24, 2009, “Shortage Of Ingredient Mires Bomb Detection,” The International Herald Tribune, News Section, Pg. 4, Lexis)</span>


//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“Homeland Security…using helium 3.”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Nuclear Forensics Prevents Terrorists and Other Rouge Entities From Obtaining Nuclear Material</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(August 2005, B.S degree in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge and deputy leader of the Biological and Quantum Physics Group at LANL, “Nuclear Detection to Prevent or Defeat Clandestine Nuclear Attack”, IEEE Xplore)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“The danger of clandestine…radiation-based detection:”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">3. Risk of nuclear terrorism is high and they can get weapons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">[Richard Weitz, January 25, 2011, Richard Weitz is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at the Hudson Institute. His current research includes regional security developments relating to Europe, Eurasia, and East Asia as well as U.S. foreign, defense, homeland security, and WMD nonproliferation policies. Dr. Weitz also is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Project on National Security Reform (PNSR), where he overseas case study research, and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where he contributes to various defense projects. Before joining Hudson, Dr. Weitz worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., the Center for Strategic Studies, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense. Dr. Weitz is a graduate of Harvard College (B.A. with Highest Honors in Government), the London School of Economics (M.Sc. in International Relations), Oxford University (M.Phil. in Politics), and Harvard University (Ph.D. in Political Science).. Dr. Weitz has published in such journals as The National Interest, The Washington Quarterly, NATO Review, Global Asia, Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Defense Concepts, Pacific Focus, Small Wars Journal, Political Science Quarterly, and The Journal of Strategic Studies. His commentaries have appeared in the International Herald Tribune, Baltimore Sun, The Guardian, Christian Science Monitor, Washington Times and World Politics Review, where he is Senior Editor. The Nation (Thailand): “struggling to Keep the Nuclear Genie in the Bottle,” LexisNexis, LS]</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“the spread…world history.”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. Terrorists With Nuclear Material Ensure Extinction</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Dennis Ray Morgan 9, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“complete annihilation…Nuclear winter”</span>__//

**//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 3 - Global Warming</span>__//**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. Carbon Emissions Caused By Burning Fossil Fuels Are Causing Global Warming – Immediate Efforts to Reduce Carbon are Critical to Solve</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Emily Figdor Director, Federal Global Warming Program, “CARBON-NEUTRAL POLICIES FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,” CQ Congressional Testimony, May 17, 2007, p. lexis)</span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“the world faces…global warming emissions.”</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Carbon Dioxide Emissions Are Increasing—Fear of Nuclear Power Post-Fukushima Is Increasing Fossil Fuel Use.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(J. P. Morgan Climate Care. “Climate on the brink as 2010 carbon emissions reach all-time high.” J. P. Morgan ClimateCare. May 31, 2011)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“CO2 emissions…chance of succeeding,"</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3. Warming causes extinction </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Tickell 8- Oliver, The Guardian, August 11, 2008, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction,” online: [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“the idea…earth”</span>__//


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. Helium-3 Solves Global Warming—Clean Nuclear Fusion Solves The Causes Of Climate Change.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Eileen K. Stansbery, the Deputy Director, Office of Astromaterials Research and Exploration Science at NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC)NASA, June 25, 2011, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/humanexplore/exploration/exlibrary/docs/isru/06energy.htm]]</span>**)**</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“There may be…</span>__////__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">highly radioactive fuels.”</span>__//

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 4 – Hegemony</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. There is a race to secure lunar resources now. It will determine global energy leadership --- rebooting NASA moon plans are key to maintaining hegemony</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review (2010, Benjamin, Emory International Law Review, “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: the Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime,” vol. 24, rev. 229, [[http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/eilr/24/24.1/Hatch.pdf)RK]])</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">“states are currently…</span>__////__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">the next "Great Game."</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. U.S. Hegemony is on the brink due to space-program cuts; they allow China to move ahead in the space race</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Hsu, 11 – senior writer for Space.com (1/17/11, Jeremy, Space.com, “Nations and Companies Vie in New Moon Race,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/10633-moon-race-private-companies.html)RK]]</span></span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“China now looks…</span>__////__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">second this time,"</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3.</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Perception of influence in space is key to U.S. Hegemony – Prevents Chinese Invasion of Taiwan</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, [[http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist]])</span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“__The underlying political…happen on Earth,"__</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. US hegemony is currently preventing China from going to war over Taiwan</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Robert S., Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University, “Navigating the Taiwan Strait: “Deterrence, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations”, International Security, pp. 48-85 (Article) Volume 2, Fall 2002, [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/international_security/v027/27.2ross.html#authbio|http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/international_security/v027/27.2ross.html#authbio]])</span>


//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> “The United States…force too risky.”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">5. A China-Taiwan conflict will escalate and cause extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Cheong, 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> – East Asia Correspondent (Ching Cheong, The Straits Times, “No one gains in war over Taiwan,” 6-25-2000, Lexis-Nexis Universe)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“A cross-strait conflict…sovereignty above everything else.”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">6.</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> U.S. Hegemony key to the global economy – secures and ensures international trade</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Boot, 06 – senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Max, “Power for Good; Since the end of the Cold War, America the Indispensable”, The Weekly Standard, Vol. 11 No. 28) </span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Mandelbaum also points…demand to the world."</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">7. Economic collapse causes nuclear war</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Mead 92 Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Author of Mead 92</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Walter Russell, //World Policy Institute//, 1992)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">have pinned their…Japan did in the '30s”</span>__//





**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">OBSERVATION 5 - SOLVENCY</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. Mining the moon is critical to access He-3</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Wilkins, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alasdair, degree in History & Science and Archaeology and Reporter at io9, “Now is the time to start mining helium on the Moon”, io9, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://io9.com/5766927/now-is-the-time-to-start-mining-helium-on-the-moon]]</span>)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“our once mighty…be there”</span>__//

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Only Helium-3 Is Proven Valuable Enough To Justify Space Exploration</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (Steven D. Strauss is the country's leading small business expert. An internationally recognized lawyer, columnist, and speaker, Steve is also an author of 15 books December 1, 1990 Saturday the globe and mail “SCIENCE From rocks to riches on the moon” [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12234396877&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T12234384366&cisb=22_T12234396880&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=303830&docNo=5]])</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“The importance…bring back”</span>__//




**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3. NASA Will Catalyze Private Sector Development By Leading The Way In Lunar Mining</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, 10 (11/6/10, Paul, “Can NASA Get Its Groove Back?”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2010/11/can-nasa-get-its-groove-back/]]</span>, JMP)</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“America… on these findings”</span>__//

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
=Negative= 
We often go for one or more of the following:
-Aliens DA
-Effects T
-The Love K
-Star Wars CP


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]