[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**Wake 1AC**== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No BMD in the budget- snowballs and undermines defense</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spring ’11</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—Senior fellow in national</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">responding to </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">potential EMP attacks.</span>__


**Plan: The United States federal government should develop a laser and kinetic missile defense infrastructure beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention One is China**

**They are weaponizing space – kills our supremacy and pushes us to the brink of conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adams 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan, China Specialist at CSM, “China is on path to 'militarization of space',” October 28, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2010/1028/China-is-on-path-to-militarization-of-space]], EMM)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow;">China looks set to pull … sustain its lead in space."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’ll isolate 3 scenarios:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, Primacy.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese space militarization undermine heg</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Erik, **Quigley**, Air Command and Staff Coll Maxwell afb al, **09** </span>“Geo-Political Considerations toChina's Rise in Space Power”, 4/2009, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA539644

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“__Space is now considered … to support this cultural ideology.__</span>

Plan solves-sends a perception of influence
Dr. Steven **Lambakis**, Senior Defense Analyst at the National Institute for Public Policy, 20**07**. “Missile Defense from Space,” [[http://www.gees.org/documentos/Documen-02177.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our choices are fundamental to … </span>__the rule of law internationally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**That solves global nuclear wars**
**<span style="color: black;">Kagan 07</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>
[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review// (<span style="color: black;">[[@http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10%29|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">… </span>__<span style="color: black;">the large powers may erupt.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is ASAT’s</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China will strive for space dominance—asat capiblities will prove</span>**
Erik, **Quigley,** Air Command and Staff Coll Maxwell afb al, **09** “Geo-Political Considerations toChina's Rise in Space Power”, 4/2009, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA539644

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On 11 January 2007</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, __China__ __demonstrated__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ground-… </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">professionals</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ―__ASATs are legitimate weapons__.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US and other countries need a counter-ASAT weapon in space</span>**
Theresa, **Hitchens**, Debris, Traffic Management, and Weaponization, **08** <span style="color: black;">Opportunities for and Challenges to Cooperation in Space Politics, 2008, http://media.web.britannica.com/ebsco/pdf/801/33119801.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As noted above, the Chinese … out a treaty banning space weapons.</span>

Space BMD solves ASATs - Two shots at stopping
Howard **Kleinberg**, member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 20**11**. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,”

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, real-… </span>__try to stop any ASAT__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Chinese ASAT development puts the U.S. on hair-trigger alert – leads to miscalc and accidental shootouts.**

Theresa **Hitchens**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, vice president and director of the Space Security Project at the Center for Defense Information, “Worst-Case Mentality Clouds USAF Space Strategy,” February 14, </span>20**05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Center for Defense Information, [[http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?DocumentID=2885&from_page=../index.cfm]]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The case</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> being </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">argued by … due to faulty manufacturing processes</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
**We’ll win probability – Concepts of limited warfare and escalation control do not exist in space**
**Krepon & Clary 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center [Michael Krepon (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004//edlee]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and compellance. Pg. 54</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 is China-Taiwan War</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SBMD deters China – the Taiwan deterrence equation requires the ability to halt Boost Phase missiles </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ Ed Ross, ePresident and CEO of EWRoss a company that provides global consulting services, former Principal Director, Security Cooperation Operations Defense Security Cooperation Agency Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense China Brief Volume: 11 Issue: 3 on February 10, 2011]</span>

__The PRC military threat to … of a PRC ballistic-missile strike__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 2 is Rogue States</span>**

**Space missile defense is key to effective BMD – counters nuclear threat**
**Pfaltzgraff & Van Cleave ‘9** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Policy Analysis,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, EMM)</span>

__There is ample reason for …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of actors seeking such power. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll isolate 3 scenarios</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scenario 1 – India</span>**
**Increasing risk of India challenging its neighbors**
**Samson** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">( victoria Samson is currently the Washington director of the Secure World Foundation, an organization that focuses on the sustainable use of space. She was previously a senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information, focusing on missile defense and space security issues. She started out working on missile defense wargaming scenarios for what was then the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, now the Missile Defense Agency. She is the author of American Missile Defense: A Guide to the Issues (Praeger Security International, 2010</span>**). 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “India’s missile defense/anti-satellite nexus” Monday May 10, 2010(http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1621/1)(Pitman) </span>
__But primarily, as can be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">keep up with regional capabilities.</span>
**Only space based weapons can destabilize India/Pakistan conflict - the risk is high**
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD … , EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, a massive exchange is less … of our way of life.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Indo-Pak war causes extinction</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Robock and Toon 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –</span><span style="color: #1c51a8; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>

__<span style="color: black;">By deploying</span>__ __…enough to kill robust species.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2—Iran EMP</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Economic collapse risk global nuclear wars**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Harris and Burrows 09</span>** PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__<span style="color: black;">a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3—Israel Strikes</span>**


**SBMD prevents Israel and Iran strikes**
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD … , EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, a massive exchange is less … of our way of life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Perception of missile defense reassures Israel—prevents military draw-in </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frederick ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—Lt. Col in the USAF, Planning Officer at STRATCOM (Lorinda, “Deterrence and Space-Based,” Air and Space Power Journal, September)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">BMD should</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> primarily be considereda … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">restrain rogue elements and proliferators. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: left;">The impact is global nuclear war</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morgan ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">professor at Hankuk university of Foreign Studies (Dennis, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, vol 41 (10))</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Given the present day predicament … potential enemies in a nuclear holocaust</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. [15]</span>__

**<span style="color: black;">CIA official predicts it will happen this month and Israel isn’t denying it</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">TheJerusalemPost 7-16,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Israel’s most read U.S. website, 7-16-11 http://www.jpost.com/Defense/Article.aspx?id=229605</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Israel will </span>____<span style="color: black;">probably</span>__<span class="ilad">__<span style="color: black;">attack</span>__</span>__<span style="color: black;">Iran</span>__<span class="ilad">__<span style="color: black;">… </span>__</span>__<span style="color: black;">Prime Minister’s Office in Jerusalem.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perception of nuclear primacy is key to deterring global conflicts and short-circuiting escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lieber &Press ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof Security Studies and Government at Georgetown AND Assoc. Prof Government at Dartmouth (Keir AND Daryl, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent,” Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Affairs, vol 88(6), pg. 51 )</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Unfortunately, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">deterrence in the twenty-… are ﬁghting for their lives. </span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space weapons are technologically viable—feasibility objections are false</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Space Weapons Are Possible</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">:</span> __Arguments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the technology wherever it may go? </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SB BMD is comparatively better than other types of NMD</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kleinberg ’11—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prof Public and Intl. Affairs @ UNC Wilmington (Howard, “A Global Missile Defense Network: Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” Lexis, April)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Nevertheless, all things considered__,__ </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, and the Twenty -First Century." </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBMD gives the US leverage in the international sphere </span>
**Morgan ’10****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in Policy Studies at Univ. of Maryland, MAAS in airpower arts and sciences, senior political analyst @ RAND (Forrest, “Deterrence and First Strike Stability in Space,” [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf]], RAND)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States can raise … of attacking in space</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. (See pp. 44–45.)</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan bolsters the effectiveness of other missile defense systems and army operations</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Geraci ‘2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Brigadier General, National Space Security Architect, Commanding General for Army Space Command (Richard, “Space support to a globally integrated air & missile defense,” Army, Vol 52(12), pg. 29-30, December)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The global, integrated air and … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">ground-based interceptors and lasers.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Hooch 1AC</span>

=Negative= 
==CITES== 
Can I have your politics cites?
"Of KORUS"- Raghav Kaul
**For cites please email wilsonma95@gmail.com**

==**2NR's**== 
==**Wake**== 
**Wake Round 1:**
**1AC: SPS**
**2NR: Backstopping Disad, Case**

**Wake Round 3:**
**1AC: Discovr/Observatory**
**2NR: Advantage CP, SKFTA, Case**

**Wake Round 6:**
**1AC: SPS**
**2NR: SKFTA, Case**
==**Hooch**== 
**Hooch Round 2:**
**1AC: Women in Space**
**2NR: KORUS, Decadal CP , Case**
**Hooch Round 4:**
**1AC: SPS**
**2NR: Cap K, Case**
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]