[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Iowa City West (IA) - Jeffrey Ding & Liam Hancock#http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Iowa+City+West+%28IA%29+-+Jeffrey+Ding+%26+Liam+Hancock|Back to ICW HD Main Page]]
=Politics= 
==SKFTA== 
===Greenhill 1NC=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Uniqueness—Obama will submit SKFTA and his push will get it passed</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Palmer 9/2</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Doug, Reuters Reporter, " Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall," 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">After a slow start that has … to approve the trade pacts</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space policy not popular</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rand</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Simberg</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, aerospace engineer and consultant in space commercialization, Summer</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2009</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “A Space Program for the Rest of Us”, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/a-space-program-for-the-rest-of-us</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the blink of an …</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">start been</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">confused and contradictory.</span>__**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">D. SKFTA is key to jumpstart global trade.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Manyin et al, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Specialist in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service (Mark E, with William H. Cooper, Remy Jurenas, and Michaela D. Platzer, 6/17. “The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications.” Congressional Research Service Report for Congress. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The fate of the KORUS … ties with major trading partners</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">E. Free trade solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Copley News Service</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, December 1,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1999</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “Commentary”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">For decades, many children in … trade. They should be celebrating it.</span>
===2NC Impact Work=== 
**SKFTA key to solve warming**
**Twining 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Daniel Twining is a senior fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the US. He is also a consultant to the U.S. government on international security affairs [“The U.S.-ROK Alliance in the 21st Century,” Strengthening the U.S.-Korea Alliance for the 21st Century - The Role of Korean-American Partnership in Shaping Asia’s Emerging Order” [[http://www.kinu.or.kr/upload/neoboard/DATA05/korus09.pdf|www.kinu.or.kr/upload/neoboard/DATA05/korus09.pdf]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Taking the Korean-American partnership ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as sources of international stability and security. </span>


**SKFTA boosts hegemony – it’s key to trade credibility**

**Cohen, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former U.S. Senator and U.S. Secretary of Defense, current chairman of The Cohen Group (William S, 6/27. “[William S. Cohen] U.S.-S. Korea relationship version 3.0.” http://www.koreaherald.com/opinion/Detail.jsp?newsMLId=20100625000513)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The FTA is by no means a favor to a friend....</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea will help achieve that noble goal. </span>

==China Bashing== 
===St. Marks 1NC=== 
**<span style="color: black;">China currency bill passed the Senate but won’t make it through the House now</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">The Spectator, 10/12</span>**<span style="color: black;">/11, [[http://www.spectator.co.uk/business-and-investments/blog/7308148/the-ticking-time-bomb-between-the-us-and-china.thtml]]</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Trade war" may erupt as a ...</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, too, worry about a trade war.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">SPS requires tons of political capital</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">David 8</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(leonard, research associate – secure world foundation and senior space writer – space.com, “space-based solar power - harvesting energy from space”, cleantech, 5-15, http://www.azocleantech.com/article.aspx? Articleid=69)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space based solar power: science and ...</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">go forward with this</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">,"</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">teets said.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pol cap key to block-impact is trade war</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reuters, 9/2/11</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]] DOA: 9/2/11</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Democrats like House Minority Leader ...</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">not expend political capital to block it</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trade war spills over</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ben </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Landy</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines. Landy served in various research and project management positions at the Brookings Institution and Center for Strategic and International Studies, two leading public policy think tanks in Washington, D.C. Ben holds a bachelor of arts degree from Yale University. April 3, 20</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">07</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]]</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The greatest threat for the...</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in military budgets and anti-satellite tests</span>__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Straits Times</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 6/25/**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2K</span>**. Lexis.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity ...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">China puts sovereignty above everything else</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>__
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Super Committee</span>== 
===**Michigan 1NC Shell**=== 
**Super committee will reach an agreement now**
**Clift 11/3/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11 (Eleanor Clift, contributing editor for Newsweek, November 3rd 2011, “Supercommittee, Super Stakes”, The Daily Beast, the online home of Newsweek, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2011/11/03/supercommittee-s-high-stakes-can-it-deliver-a-debt-deal.html]] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">JR</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">After weeks of inaction, the congressional supercommittee on ...</span>
__can stand up to our problems.”__







**Even relatively minor spending like the plan triggers committee failure**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">McCarthy and Harder 10/11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Meghan, Staff Writer, Health Policy, covers health policy throughout Washington for National Journal, worked at Congressional Quarterly, where she covered the House of Representatives and contributed to CQ Healthbeat; and Amy, Energy and Environment Correspondent, reports on energy and the environment for National Journal and moderates an expert blog on the topic as well, was a staff writer for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, “Energy and Commerce Dems Go Left on Super Committee Recommendations” Proquest)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the recommendations will not ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that placed a price on climate-change pollution.</span>















**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deficit commission failure and corresponding defense cuts allows China rise, NK war, and economic collapse </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">O'Hanlon</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Director of Research and Senior Fellow @ Brookings in the 21st Century Defense Initiative, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">9/23</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, [[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Most worrisome is the default plan. As part of the August deficit and ...</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">America to come home from the world.</span>**







**North Korean war leads to extinction**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">– *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The international community is increasingly aware that ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">consideration from the international community. </span>




===2NC Uniqueness Cards=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Super Committee will succeed – pressure and bipartisan agreements </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Taylor 10/10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew Taylor , the Associated Press “Deficit 'supercommittee' struggles as clock ticks” 10/10/11 [[http://www.federalnewsradio.com/?nid=108&sid=2584237]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> To be sure, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the supercommittee still...</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">so-called supercommittee, but we have to get to one."</span>

**Will Pass- Bipartisan Pressure**
**Business Journal 11/3/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11 (Business Journal, November 3rd 2011, “Costa urges Super Committee to 'go big'”, [[http://www.thebusinessjournal.com/government/11949-costa-urges-super-committee-to-go-big]] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">JR</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Congressman Jim Costa joined a bipartisan group...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues. </span>__
===2NC Link Debate=== 
**The link is huge**

**A)** __Unpredictable Pressure__ **– the unpredictable nature of the plan provides outside pressure to the super committee – creates a stalemate**

**Buetler, ‘9-8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brian Buelter, “Can The Super Committee Even Pass Its First — And By Far Easiest — Test?”. </span>[[http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/can-the-super-committee-even-pass-its-first----and-by-far-easiest----test.php]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, SM]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Sen. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jon Kyl</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (R-AZ), </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a Super Committee member...</span>__
__to come from the spending side."__



**B)** __Tradeoffs__ **– independently, even if funding the plan is popular, find places to get reciprocal cuts for the plan creates partisanship**

**Handberg, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA Administrator Charles Bolden alluded to that reality recently...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">always just another appropriation away from happening.</span>



===2NC Impact Debate=== 
**Their impact defense doesn’t assume cuts that have already happened – we are at the brink now, any more cuts collapses our military strategy**

**Graham, ‘9-9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jed Graham, 9/9/11, “Debt Deal Trigger Would Cut Defense Spending Deeply”, </span>[[http://www.investors.com/NewsAndAnalysis/Article.aspx?id=584367&p=1]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, SM]</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">By any measure, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">national security spending has soared in the...</span>__
__another $500 billion in defense cuts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**Defense spending cuts hollow out the military – cuts modernization and nuclear deterrence**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Carafano,</span> **Fellow at the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy,<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> 8</span>** *James Jay Carafano [8/27/8 “Prepping the military for defeat,” The Virginian-Pilot]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AFTER the Vietnam War, respect for the ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nation safe, free and prosperous in the 21st century.</span>



**Independently, nuclear primacy deters conflicts and prevents nuclear escalation**

**Lieber & Press, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND **Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College (Winter 2007, Keir A., Daryl G., China Security, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of Chinese Deterrent,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Third, the growth of </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. nuclear ...</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the United States </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">at the conventional level. </span>__**


==Elections DA (Obama Good== 
===Michigan 1NC Shell=== 
**A. Uniqueness: Obama will win the 2012 election, but it will be close – independents are critical.**
**McManus 7/7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Doyle McManus Washington columnist for more than 25 years. Former The Times' Washington bureau chief “McManus: Team Obama's victory plan” L.A. Times http://www.pointslocal.com/story/venice/411817/team-obamas-victory-plan)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">David Plouffe and others expect a tough 2012...</span>__
__helped him to victory in place__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Space programs are unpopular – the plan upsets voters.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Launius 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- graduated from Graceland College received the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in at Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, with major fields in American frontier and military history (Roger, “Exploding the Myth of Popular Support for Project Apollo” August 16, 2010, http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2010/08/16/exploding-the-myth-of-popular-support-for-project-apollo/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Because of the on-going dispute ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the finish line before collapsing. </span>





**C. Impact:**

**A republican victory destroys global warming regulations.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capiello 5/27</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (5/27/11, Dina, Associated Press, MSNBC, “GOP Presidential Hopefuls Shift on Global Warming” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/43192439/ns/politics-decision_2012/t/gop-presidential-hopefuls-shift-global-warming/) </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">For Republican presidential contenders who...</span>
to limit pollution threaten the economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Warming causes extinction**

**Tickell 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We need to get prepared for ...</span>
us towards a similar hothouse Earth.



===2NC Impact Debate=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama solves warming – republicans kill that** </span>
<span class="Underline">**SustainableBusiness.com 2/11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( “Republicans Want To Ax Renewable Energy and Environment” February 11, 2011, http://www.sustainablebusiness.com/index.cfm/go/news.display/id/21871)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Congressional </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Republicans</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">on Wednesday released a ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with stricter limits on air pollution." </span>


==EPA Bashing Bad== 
===Michigan 1NC Shell=== 
<span class="Underline">**GOP-led efforts to undermine EPA regulations is at the top of the agenda—Obama is spending capital protecting EPA actions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Restuccia and Geman 10/31**/11 (Andrew and Ben, The Hill, "Overnight Energy: Cuccinelli, EPA to square off over coal plant rules," http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/190807-overnight-energy) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">State of play: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A House committee ...</span>
are what are holding back the economy.







**Increased discretionary spending is politically unpopular – space exploration is far from a political priority.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- professor and chair of the department of political science at the university of central florida (rodger, “small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of us human spaceflight policy,” the space review, 1/17, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The us space program remained focused...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>





<span class="Underline"> **C. Capital is key to defeating Republican efforts to undercut the EPA’s efforts**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cohen 12/28**/10 (Steven, Executive Director @ The Earth Institute, Columbia University, Defending EPA Against the Coming Right Wing Attack, 2010, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steven-cohen/defending-epa-against-the_b_801876.html) </span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Republicans in the next Congress ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">agency against the coming right wing attack. </span>







<span class="Underline"> **D. These EPA regulations will solve warming–reduces GHG’s, gets modeled globally, & sparks broader US efforts**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Clean Energy News 12/30**/10 (12/30/10, "EPA Greenhouse Gas Limits to Take Effect in 2011", http://blog.cleanenergy.org/2010/12/30/epa-greenhouse-gas-limits-to-take-effect-in-2011/) </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Despite what you may have heard ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">help to slow our changing climate. </span>





**extinction**

**Sify 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sydney newspaper citing </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sify News, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]], WEA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The findings of the comprehensive report...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bruno warned, according to a GCI release. </span>





===2NC Uniqueness Debate=== 
**EPA Stripping won’t Pass**
**Restuccia 11/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/191699-senate-rejects-gop-infrastructure-bill-that-targeted-epa)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Senate</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">rejected</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thursday </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Republican ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">approval for major new federal regulations. </span>
===2NC Link Debate=== 
**Fiat means that EPA stripping legislation is attached to the plan**
**Graves, 11** [Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Still, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">once anti-EPA legislation is written...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">regulation. Democrats successfully blocked it. </span>
===2NC Impact Debate=== 
**Warming is anthropogenic, and reversible. Even if they win nature influences warming, human-made emissions are the biggest factor.**
**Fitzpatrick et al ‘6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html, AM)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Earth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and slowing deforestation (among other solutions). </span>

Warming does cause extinction—kills all species
**Parkinson****2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Claire L is a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, where she's worked since July 1978, with a research emphasis on sea ice and its role in the global climate system. Claire has a B.A. in mathematics from Wellesley College and a Ph.D. in climatology from Ohio State University. She is a fellow of both the American Meteorological Society and Phi Beta Kappa. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Coming Climate Crisis</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Corals and shelled marine organisms ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">although this is not considered likely.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Warming causes conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Blockstein and Wiegman 10.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">David E. Blockstein is a Senior Scientist with the National Council for Science and the Environmen, PhD in Ecology from the University of Minnesota. Leo Wiegman, Mayor at Croton-on-Hudson. “The Climate Solutions Consensus: What we Know and What To Do About It” Island Press, 2010. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Human Migration and Conflict. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With a ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">water resources and migration pressures</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Continuing Resolution DA== 
===Michigan 1NC Shell=== 
Resolution coming now
HELDERMAN 11/3/11 (Rosalind S. Helderman, “Congress holds rare appropriations conference”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/congress-holds-rare-appropriations-conference/2011/11/03/gIQAN1dajM_blog.html)


**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">House and Senate appropriators</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Thursday __gathered to begin ...__</span>**
huge improvement over previous years.” 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
**Failure to reach a deal guarantees government shutdown.** 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
**Farry, 1-19-2011**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Yanira, Junior Editor – Veterans Today, Military & Foreign Affairs Journal, “GOP-Tea Party Play Chicken With U.S. Credit, Courting Catastrophe,” http://www.veteranstoday.com/2011/01/19/gop-tea-party-play-chicken-with-u-s-credit-courting-catastrophe/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SHUTTING DOWN GOVERNMENT: </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the ...</span>__
__default in history caused purely by insanity.”__ 

**That causes cyberattacks.** 
**Sideman, 2-23-2011**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alysha, Federal Computer Week Contributor, “Agencies must determine computer security teams in face of potential federal shutdown” http://fcw.com/Articles/2011/02/23/Agencies-must-determine-computer-security-teams-in-face-of-shutdown.aspx?Page=1]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the WikiLeaks hacks and other </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">threats ...</span>__
__an attack,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reports Federal Computer Week. </span>

**Great power escalation.** 
**Fritz, 2009** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of...</span>
__compromising command and control centres directly.__ 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
===2NC Link Debate <3 Joe Nelson=== 
**Plan would be passed as a rider—causes backlash and kills deal**
**Russert 11/2**; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Luke Russert, NBC news; “Policy fights could mean another shutdown threat”; [[http://firstread.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/11/01/8584534-policy-fights-could-mean-another-shutdown-threat]]; JN)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The most recently-passed continuing resolutio</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">n...</span>
__set forth in the Budget Control Act.__ 








=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weaponization DA</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1NC Shell Version 1 (Link Absent)</span>== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama is pursuing space cooperation now – countries are responding with new cooperative frameworks</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith, '11</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Marcia. Member of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, Arlington, VA, USA. “President Obama's National Space Policy: A Change in Tone and a Focus on Space Sustainability.” Space Policy. 27:1. February. ScienceDirect]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">On June 28, 2010, President Barack</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … for which all are responsible</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, weaponization not inevitable – US dependence on space does not independently provide reason for weaponization and first strike</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lowery '9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Scott, University of Colorado, …</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">sophistication to destroy than satellites. </span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Failure of multilateralism causes arms race in space</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens, 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– president of the Center …</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space warfare is not inevitable.</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Arms race leads to dangerous weapons systems that cause chemical, nuclear, and biological weapon use</span>
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell, et al 01</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Miscalculation and the “use it or lose it” mindset means deterrence won't stop conflict</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cox 7</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stan, Staff writer, Real-Life Star Wars: The Militarization of Space”, Global Research, 11/19/07, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=7373]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">They stress that</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the first … be elevated to the heavens."</span>

==1NC Shell Version 2 (Link Absent)== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="color: black;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span>)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>



**Weaponization causes global insecurity and arms races, increasing space debris and risking rapid nuclear war**
**Hoey, 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many people believe that </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a deployed anti-satellite ...</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, this potential development could become a reality. </span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Failure of multilateralism causes arms race in space</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens, 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– president of the Center …</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space warfare is not inevitable.</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Arms race leads to dangerous weapons systems that cause chemical, nuclear, and biological weapon use</span>
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell, et al 01</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]) </span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen. </span>__

**Space weaponization will encourage countries to destroy US satellites and cause a global war and extinction**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Mitchell, et al 01</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A buildup of space weapons might ...</span>__
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the most destructive military conflict ever seen. </span>__
==2NC Impact Work== 
**Wars make space unusable**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Cox, 7 </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(Stan, Alternet.com, “Real-Life Star Wars: The Militarization of Space”, 11-15-07, http://www.alternet.org/audits/67699/?page=2&ses=bc840069826945d72d02af984b214a450 </span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Why should we citizens even ...</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">, and possibly trigger a nuclear war. </span>__


**SSP will be destroyed in a space war**
**<span style="color: black;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2.5. Self Defence of SPS At the opposite ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">industrial complexes or powerplants” </span>


**Space cooperation is key to weather monitoring that allows for climate change adaptation**
**Friedman** **11** - Former 30 year Executive Director of The Planetary Society (Lou Friedman, “Peace,” __The Space Review__, Monday, January 3, 2011, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1751/1]])
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space offers much more than symbolism ...</span>
__political cooperation in the former.__


**Weaponization turns heg:**
**a. soft power**
**Brown, 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—BA from Indiana University and MSc from Nanyang Technological University [Trevor Brown, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” March 1, 2009, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html#brown]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States has plans to ...</span>__
__to make plans to offer such protection.__
**b. hard power**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hartung, 05 </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(William, senior research fellow at the World Policy Institute at the New School, “Weapons in space put the world at risk”, 7/13, Seattle Post Intelligencer, </span><span style="color: black;">http://seattlepi.nwsource.com/opinion/232239_spaceweapons13.html</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But just because we can do something...</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">putting U.S. satellites at risk</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">. </span>


**Space disruption collapses the global economy**
**Sénéchal 7 – PhD from Columbia**
Thierry Sénéchal, PhD from Columbia University, 2007, “Space Debris Pollution: A Convention Proposal,” Protocol for a Space Debris Risk and Liability Convention, http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An Increasing Space Market with ...</span>__
competed with one another, both on Earth and in space.

==2NC Uniqueness Work== 
**increases cooperation that fosters a more multipolar world**
**Logsdon 11**--<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(February, 2011, John M., Space Policy,“Change and Continuity in US Space Policy” Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The new National Space Policy directs...</span>__
__its own interests in the security space arena.__

**increases transparency**
**Fukushima 11—**National Institute for Defense Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February, 2011, Yasuhito, “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia” Vol. 27, Issue 1, Science Direct)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This paper aims to analyze the new US National Space Policy...</span>__
__a__ __“key cornerstone____” in Obama____’s NSP__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.2</span>


**Lack of transparency risks global nuclear war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Schwab, 05 – </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">director of the Homeplanet Defense Institute (Martin, __Homeplanet Defense: Strategic Thought for a World in Crisis__, chapter 1)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASATs are designed to take out the ability...</span>__
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">can easily be interpreted as provocation.' </span>





==Link Cards== 
===SPS Links=== 
**Microwave beams are electromagnetic weapons and can destroy power systems**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">High power microwaves</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (HPM) </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">are a ...</span>__
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">more catastrophic effects than the Millennium Bug13 </span>__

**SPS is perceived as a weapon**
**Ramos 2K** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, the report stated that electrical propulsion ... </span>
__power in space to energize the RF beam.__


===SSA Links=== 
**Space situational awareness is key to offensive Space negation – it gives us the ability to target enemy satellites**
**Jakhu 2010 - Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Ram , with Cesar Jaramillo Managing Editor, Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines (Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada),), John Seibert (Project Ploughshares), Dr. Jennifer Simmons (The Simmons Foundation), Dr. Ray Williamson (Secure World Foundation). “Space Security 2010.” Spacesecurity.org. August 2010. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]]</span>. pp. 119-167. Accessed June 21, 2011</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This chapter assesses trends and ...</span>
__many satellites in low Earth orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (LEO).3</span>



**SSA will be used to make US punishment strategies credible**

**Morgan, 10** - <span style="color: black;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span>Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”

<span style="color: black;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Critical Need for Better Space Situational ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">needed for an effective space deterrence regime.</span>





**Genuine cooperation in space requires accepting limits on US military space policies – the plan reverses progress towards rules of the road**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">How can this negative situation be reversed...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">” regime for peacetime operations.</span>





**Plan removes the primary motive driving cooperation – the expectation of a declining space budget**

**Fukushima 11—**National Institute for Defense Studies

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February, 2011, **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yasuhito, Space Policy, </span>**“An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia” Vol. 27, Issue 1, Science Direct, FS) </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leveraging the increasing opportunities to...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and enable market access for US industry.”</span>



**Flip flop: the US is being closely watched for signs that it might deviate from its National Space Policy**

**Grego, 10 -** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">senior scientist, UCS Global Security Program (Laura, </span>“Next Steps for the United States” 12/15,

http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/space-security-next-steps-for-united-states-lgrego.pdf)



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">this administration’s National Space Policy ...</span>__
__evidence that these changes are durable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fiscal Discipline DA (NEO Link)</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Shell</span>== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US economy will avoid a double dip recession – stock market and consumer spending trends</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bryan 8/30/11</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jay, “U.S. consumers dampen double-dip danger,” Montreal Gazette, [[http://www.montrealgazette.com/business/consumers+dampen+double+danger/5325174/story.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">MONTREAL - It might be premature to speak of optimism, but Monday’s ...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">no recipe for a double-dip.</span>__





**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Asteroid tracking costs 1 billion</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Borenstein 7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – author who writes about the environment and science (Seth, March 5, Associated Press: “NASA Can’t Pay for Killer Asteroid Hunt”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/17473059/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/nasa-cant-pay-killer-asteroid-hunt/) WSX</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — NASA officials say the space ...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">called both those choices too costly.</span>__





**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fiscal Discipline key to keeping Moody’s Rating</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bloomberg 8/2</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Bloomberg, "US Credit Rating Affirmed as Moody's Fitch warn of Downgrade on Defecit," 8/2/2011 pg online @ [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html|www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html]]//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">arjun)</span>//</span>

//__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Moody’s</span>__////<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Investors Service and Fitch Ratings ...</span>//
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the decade, followed by a decline.</span>//






//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">S&P Downgrade means brink is now – another Downgrade would trigger the impact</span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NY Times 8/5</span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(The New York Times, Breaking News Alert, "US Long-Term Debt Downgraded by Standard & Poor's," 8-5-11</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">arjun)</span>

<span class="debateunderline">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">tandard </span><span class="debateunderline">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">& P</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">oor’s </span><span class="debateunderline">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">removed the U</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="debateunderline">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">tates ...</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">reduction by at least two agencies.</span>__**





**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, a downgrade from Moony collapses the economy</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alden 6/3</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(6/3/11, William Alden, Huffington Post, “Debt Ceiling Fight Could Strain Economy Even Before August, With Moody's Downgrade Possible,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/06/03/debt-ceiling-moodys-downgrade_n_870927.html)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK -- As politicians fight over ...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">established over the last 50 years."</span>__







**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse leads to multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 20**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">08</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>



__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Then there are</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the dolorous</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">consequences...</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">from internal travails with external adventures. </span>__

=Heg Good DA= 
==1NC Shell== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Independently, the Affirmative’s criticism of American policy is dangerous – it contributes to isolationism and the eventual collapse of U.S. primacy</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan, 98</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History from American University, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy. Summer, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=275]]</span>)</span>

<span class="text">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony...</span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">celebration of the next American humbling.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collapse of hegemony leads to global wars – others won’t respect the US’s retreat because threats are inevitable</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thayer 6</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American ...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">protects the country from such threats.</span>__



=Trade-off DA's= 
==DOD- Long Range Bomber DA== 
===Michigan 1NC Shell=== 

<span class="Underline">**Funding for a new long-range bomber depends on current savings in the Air Force budget – new programs kill it**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Majumdar ‘11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dave Majumdar, Defense News, “U.S. Air Force Bomber Plans Hinge On Savings,” 1-17-2011, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=5469848)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the U.S. Air Force wants its ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the money. Not to worry," he said. </span>





<span class="Underline">**Cancellation of the bomber program triggers deterrence failures**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Gunzinger ‘10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark A. Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at CSBA, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Transformation and Resources, former Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council staff, a key player in every major defense review since the end of the Cold War, retired Air Force Colonel and Command Pilot, M.S. National Security Strategy, National War College, Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Master of Public Administration from Central Michigan University, and B.S. Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike,” Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-14-2010, p.76, http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/2010.09.14-Sustaining-Americas-Strategic-Advantage-in-Long-Range-Strike.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SuStaining the air Leg oF the nucLear triad ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">certifying, and </span>declaring it as nuclearcapable.



<span class="Underline">**This creates three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Williams ‘10 (**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010, http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Case for Continuity The case ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">commitment to defending South Korea</span>







**A new LRSS bomber is essential to maintaining US Air-Power**

**Gunzinger 10****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, senior advisor to the Air Force for the 2010 QDR, Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council (9/14/2010, Mark, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike”, [[http://www.csbaonline.org/publications/2010/09/americas-strategic-advantage-long-range-strike/)JCP]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The nation’s contemporary conventional air power projection force, then...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">missile and conventionally-armed ballistic missiles.9 </span>



**That sparks global WMD conflict**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tellis 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This subsection attempts to synthesize ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. </span>






===2NC Impact Debate=== 
**Failure to develop a next generation bomber will threaten US global leadership**
**Blakey 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Industrial Asociation (August 2008, Marion C., “U.S. Defense Modernization”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/report_modernization_aug08.pdf)JCP]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Now is the time to start a new ...</span>__
__of the United States as a global power.__ 

**Next generation bomber prevents EMP attacks which function the same way in destroying the economy**
**Watts, 8** – senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry, The Case for Long-Range Strike: 21st Century Scenarios, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20090203.The_Case_for_Long-/R.20090203.The_Case_for_Long-.pdf) **LRSS=Long Range Strategic Strike**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">From the standpoint of whether __the ...__</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">in the early twenty-first century</span>__. 

<span class="Underline">**DA turns space war – Long range strike is key to deter ASAT attacks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gates ‘9-**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Secretary of Defense under Bush and Obama, recently retired (February 2009, Robert M, “National Defense Strategy” , http://www.andyross.net/us_defense.htm)JCP</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Other nations may be unwilling to challenge ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">short-range </span>to longer-range systems. 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>


===2NC Uniqueness Debate=== 
**The bomber will be funded now – but preserving cuts in other programs are key**
**Bloomberg 9-20** (Tony Capaccio, “Air Force Strives ‘to Maintain’ Tanker, F-35, Bomber Plans,” Bloomberg, 9-20-2011, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/air-force-will-strive-to-maintain-tanker-f-35-bomber-plans.html)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. Air Force will “make ...</span>__
__existing B-2 and B-52 aircraft.__



**Air Force prioritization will protect it from cuts now – only the plan can disrupt that**
**Lerman 9-19** (David Lerman, “Air Force Secretary Vows to Protect F-35, New Bomber From Cuts,” Bloomberg, 9-19-2011, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/air-force-secretary-vows-to-protect-f-35-new-bomber-from-cuts.html)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Air Force Secretary Michael Donley ...</span>__
__from land, sea and air.__


**The bomber program is on the brink – it’s the most likely program to get axed**
**Defense Tech ‘11** (Defense Tech, a military.com sub-site edited by John Reed (masters in International Affairs), Christian Lowe (former senior writer for politico), Ward Carroll (contributing editor for Naval Aviation news) and other industry experts, “Can the Air Force Afford the New Bomber?” 7-18-2011, http://defensetech.org/2011/07/18/can-the-air-force-afford-the-new-bomber/)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the Pentagon holds to ...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">budget choices in the coming years </span>__

**The budget for the bomber is secure now and has strong support despite fiscal difficulties**
**LATimes 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- (May 22, 2011, “Pentagon weapons buyer quietly visits California to discuss bomber planes”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/22/business/la-fi-new-bomber-20110522/2)JCP]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Federal spending is under major scrutiny in Washington, and Congress ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">were built in the 1960s and modified for use today. </span>

===__2NC Link Debate__=== 
**Air Force budget under pressure – trade-offs will have to be made**
**Brinton 7-1-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Turner is a staff writer at Space News “Conaton: Budget Pressure Necessitates Satellite Block Buys” http://www.spacenews.com/military/110701-budget-necessitates-sat-block-buys.html) BW</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With the U.S. Congress pushing back on the Air Force’s ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Foundation and Center for Strategic Space Studies.</span>

**Normal means is Air Force funding – this trades off with other policies**
**Lyle 3-18-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amaani, Secretary of the Air Force Public Affairs “Air Force officials take space budget, acquisition strategy to Capitol Hill” [[http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123247455]]) BW</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Air Force is investing in critical military space capabilities...</span>__
__to make our programs more cost-effective."__  

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Even perception of dual use capabilities means the plan trades off with other air force programs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dolman ‘5</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett C. Dolman, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, “U.S. Military Transformation and U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9-30-2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The immediate budget impact of significant funding ...</span>
<span class="Underline">for supporters of a strong military. </span>



<span class="Underline">**Their own solvency advocate admits that DRAGNETS must work within fiscal constraints—also, dozens of more expensive programs are needed to solve**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Ziegler 7** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dustin P. Ziegler, Major, USAF April 2007 “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS)” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">DRAGNETS offers one such approach, harnessing ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">these technologies in applications of interest to the AF. </span>