[[toc]]
For aff and neg cites, email Amanda - [[mailto:acj.walsh@gmail.com|acj.walsh@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==EMS== 
===1AC - University of Michigan=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation One: Inherency</span>**

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Environmental monitoring programs are being cut now.** </span>
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Colleton 11**</span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">—President of the Institute for Global Environmental Strategies and Executive Director of the Institute’s Alliance for Earth Observations Initiative</span>
<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Nancy, “Budget Cuts Put ‘Environmental Intelligence’ at Risk”, April 20th, Space News, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/110418-cuts-environmental-intelligence-risk.html]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. scientific agencies are bracing … the nation’s Earth-observing programs</span><span class="s3" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Put away your counterplans—status-quo efforts are failing now and international or private actors will only make it worse.</span>**
<span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Lewis 10**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="s1">Satellites provide globally consistent observations … only be done from space. </span></span>//

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its deployment of Earth observation satellites beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

**Observation Two: Warming**

**Earth observation satellites are necessary to understand the implications of climate change and solve global warming**<span class="s5">**.**</span>
<span class="s4">**Washington Post 11**</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“Aging and Failed Satellites Jeopardize Efforts to Collect Data on Climate Change”, Medill's National Security Reporting Project on the National Security Implications of Climate Change, The Washington Post, January 4, 2011,[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/aging-and-failed-satellites-jeopardize-efforts-to-collect-data-on-climate-change/2011/01/24/ABxGNER_story.html]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>

<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shortly after it lifted off … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a satellite to measure soil moisture.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Satellites solve uncertainty, create international cooperation, and find cost-effective solutions.</span>**
<span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Lewis 10**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="s1">There has been speculation for … the United States can take.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="s1">**Satellites are necessary for action.**</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="s4">**Lewis, Ladislaw, and Zheng 10**</span>—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS **Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS** *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Until this year, America’s civil … Climate Service for similar reasons.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming causes extinction—it’s real, anthropogenic, and immediate.</span>**
<span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Morgan 2009—**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Current Affairs at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Dennis Ray, “World on Fire: Two Scenarios of the Destruction of Human Civilization and Possible Extinction of the Human Race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As horrifying as the scenario … against our chances of survival?</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming is real and anthropogenic—basic science.</span>**
<span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Braganza 11**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—Manager of the Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Karl, “The Greenhouse Effect is Real: Here’s Why”, Hot Topics, The Conversation, June 14, 2011, [[http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>//
*Site disclosure statement: The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

<span class="s1">The greenhouse effect is fundamental … </span><span class="s6">rapid future warming is irrefutable.</span>

**Don’t believe the skeptics—no peer review or accountability tests.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 11**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**—***</span>//**Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia** Professor of Astrophysics at the University of South Wales
(Stephan and Michael, “The False, the Confused and the Mendacious: How the Media Gets it Wrong on Climate Change”, Hot Topics, The Conversation, June 24, 2011, //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nothing is 100% certain in science.</span><span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> … </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even 1% risk justifies action—the consequences are too big.</span>**
<span class="s5" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Strom, 2007**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences at University of Arizona and Former Director Space Imagery Center of NASA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Robert, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p.246)</span>

<span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Keep in mind that </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the … time for action is now.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation Three: Biodiversity</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ocean ecosystems are collapsing—only the aff collects vital data to stop this.</span>**
<span class="s9" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Sherman 2011**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—Director of the US Large Marine Ecosystem Program</span>
<span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Kenneth, “</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The application of satellite remote sensing for assessing productivity in relation to fisheries yields of the world’s large marine ecosystems,” ICES Journal of Marine Science, US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Northeast Fisheries Science Center, 2011)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In 1992, </span><span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">world leaders at the … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">climate change (Duda and Sherman, 2002).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Destruction of marine ecosystems guarantees rapid species extinction.</span>**
<span class="s10" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Black 2011**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—BBC News Environmental Correspondent</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Richard, “World’s Oceans in ‘Shocking’ Decline”, Science/Environment, BBC News, June 20, 2011, [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-13796479]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>//

<span class="s1">The oceans are in a worse … certainly a globally significant extinction event**."**</span>

**Extinction.**
<span class="s4">**Donahue 11**</span>—Former Reporter for the Time Herald, author of five books on marine life in the Great Lakes
(James, “Pushing the Mother’s Reset Button”, March 7, 2011//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, [[http://perdurabo10.tripod.com/warehousek/id61.html]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AW</span>

<span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is no secret that … </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">to our planet and ourselves</span><span class="s11" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth monitoring is necessary.</span>**
<span class="s9" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Robinson, 2010**-</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">., BA and MA Mechanical Sciences, Cambridge University, PhD Engineering Magneto-hydrodynamics, University of Warwick, 1973, Higher and Senior Scientific Officer, Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, Bidston, Lecturer, senior lecturer and reader, University of Southampton Department of Oceanography, Head of Department of Oceanography, Professor, University of Southampton School of Ocean and Earth Science, Professorial Fellow, Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Ian, “Discovering the Ocean from Space: The Unique Applications of Satellite Oceanography”, 2010)</span>

<span class="s3" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ocean</span><span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of planet Earth </span><span class="s3" style="background-color: #ffffff;">… </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">future stability of human civilization</span><span class="s11" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation four: Silence</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fossil fuel industries have shut down debates over global warming, infiltrating the public with doubt. Alternate views have been marginalized and silenced and replaced with industry jargon creating policy paralysis.</span>**
<span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Beder 99**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—Visiting professor at the School of Social Sciences, Media, and Communication at the University of Wollongong, focus within power relations, environmental politics and economics, rhetoric of sustainable development, and environmental and corporate trends; written 10 books, 150+ articles, book chapters, and conference papers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Sharon, “Climatic Confusion and Corporate Collusion: Hijacking the Greenhouse Debate”, The Ecologist, March/April 1999, pp. 119-122)//AW</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In December 1997 the United Nations … concern about global warming since 1991</span><span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anti-warming industries have even corrupted the government level, erasing environmentally responsible solutions from appearing in policy discussions.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Scheer 06**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—German Member of Parliament</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hermann, “Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy”, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 141-142)</span>

<span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In her book Power Play, … </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">as a vehicle for self-interest.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Government policy on warming is corrupted—true political analysis has been thrown away from immediate personal gain, causing policy paralysis in energy and warming politics.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Justmeans 10**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—Green Business News Website</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Solar Feeds, Hermann Scheer: A German Solar Hero, Saturday, 23 October, 2010, [[http://www.solarfeeds.com/justmeans/14821-hermann-scheer-a-german-solar-hero]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The government behaved like all … hand of these power companies</span><span class="s11" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, the concentration of power in the hands of energy companies makes authoritarianism inevitable.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Scheer 06’**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 283-234,[[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The central political motive for a … </span><span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;">every region of the globe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This leads to the elimination of civic resistance—values cease to exist.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Scheer 06** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. P 285,[[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Such a development, however, is most … oligarchies, on a transnational ‘energy state’.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Domination by the corrupt leads to constant cycles of authoritarian violence.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Shepard 09** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Graduated from Azusa Pacific University, California (BA degree, major: Philosophy, minor: Psychology) and received his Masters of Divinity Degree from Gordon Conwell Theological Seminary, Boston, Massachusetts. “Oil Wars”[[http://www.northforest.org/SocialCulturalTopics/OilWars.html]], December 2009)</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if the nations of … be destroyed in the process.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Current environmental ideology reinforces one-dimensional thought. Rethinking environmental politics is key to dissolve these restrictions.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Scheer 06** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the energy system</span><span class="s7" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, too, </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">… formation and their specific consequences.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In-round discourse about environmental solutions is a prior question to their impacts.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Scheer 06** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Hermann Scheer is a Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, The post-fossil future, Le Monde diplomatique, June 2006, [[http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=133&Itemid=11]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This opportunity for a post-fossil … </span><span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">this resistance can be overcome.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No excuses—current tactics just reinforce political power structures and lead to political exclusion and paralysis.</span>**
<span class="s12" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Abelsohn and O’Hara 11’** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Ethical Response to Climate Change, Dennis Patrick O’Hara, director of the Elliott Allen Institute for Theology and Ecology at St. Michael’s, Alan Abelsohn, assistant professor in the Department of Family and Community Medicine, and the Dalla Lana School of Public Health and lecturer in the Centre for Environment, at the University of Toronto,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ethics and the Environment, Vol. 16, No. 1, Spring 2011, [[http://www.jstor.org/pss/10.2979/ethicsenviro.16.1.25]])</span>

<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The leaders of some countries—… impunity for one to murder.</span>

===<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC - Glenbrooks</span>=== 

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its deployment of Earth observation satellites beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

**Advantage One: Warming**

**Earth observation satellites are vital to provide data to effectively counter global warming, but current models are aging and ineffective. And only U.S. government action can provide the necessary satellites – private and international actors lack effective data collection technology.**
<span class="s1">**Lewis 10**</span>—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data
(Ladislaw, and Zheng, James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)AW

<span class="s2">Satellites provide globally consistent observations … only be done from space.</span>

**Critical gaps exist in earth observation data despite recent new launches of stopgap environmental satellites.**
**UN-SPIDER 11/3/11**
(“NASA Finally Launches New Climate Satellite, Highlighting Need For Funding New Monitoring Capabilities”, United Nations Platform for Space-Based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response, November 3, 2011, http://www.un-spider.org/about-us/news/en/5415/2011-11-03t135200/nasa-finally-launches-new-climate-satellite-highlighting)AW
<span class="s2">While the NPP launch should … such data been so critical.</span>

**New earth observation satellites will solve gaps in climate data, foster international climate cooperation though data sharing, and find cost-effective and politically feasible solutions to global warming.**
<span class="s1">**Lewis 10**</span>—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data
(Ladislaw, and Zheng, James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)//AW//

<span class="s2">There has been speculation for … the United States can take.</span>

<span class="s2">**New data from U.S. satellites is necessary to end doubt about climate change and prompt both domestic and international action.**</span>
<span class="s1">**Lewis, 10**</span>—*Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS *Congressional Staffer at Salary Data
(Ladislaw, and Zheng, James, Sarah, Denise, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)AW

<span class="s2">Until this year, America’s civil … Climate Service for similar reasons.</span>

**And warming is real and anthropogenic—the science is irrefutable.**
<span class="s1">**Braganza 11**</span>—Manager of the Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia
(Karl, “The Greenhouse Effect is Real: Here’s Why”, Hot Topics, The Conversation, June 14, 2011, http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515)//AW//
*Site disclosure statement: The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

<span class="s2">The greenhouse effect is fundamental … </span><span class="s3">rapid future warming is irrefutable.</span>

**Global warming will result in extinction—earth will soon reach a tipping point of no return. Rising temperatures, melting ice caps, ecosystem failures, and global dimming threaten all life on earth.**
**Morgan 2009**—Professor of Current Affairs at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea
(Dennis Ray, “World on Fire: Two Scenarios of the Destruction of Human Civilization and Possible Extinction of the Human Race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)

As horrifying as the scenario … against our chances of survival?

**Don’t believe the warming skeptics—they are the zombies of the scientific community – all of their warrants have been disproven thousands of times, but they just won’t die.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 11—***Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia Professor of Astrophysics at the University of South Wales
(Stephan and Michael, “The False, the Confused and the Mendacious: How the Media Gets it Wrong on Climate Change”, Hot Topics, The Conversation, June 24, 2011, http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)AW

<span class="s2">Nothing is 100% certain in science.</span><span class="s4"> … </span><span class="s2">thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**Advantage Two: Biodiversity**

**Ocean ecosystems are collapsing—new satellite data is vital to solve.**
<span class="s5">**Sherman 2011**</span>—Director of the US Large Marine Ecosystem Program
(Kenneth, “The application of satellite remote sensing for assessing productivity in relation to fisheries yields of the world’s large marine ecosystems,” ICES Journal of Marine Science, US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Northeast Fisheries Science Center, 2011)

In 1992, <span class="s6">world leaders at the … </span>climate change (Duda and Sherman, 2002).

**Earth monitoring satellites are necessary to understand and improve the oceans.**
<span class="s5">**Robinson, 2010**-</span>., BA and MA Mechanical Sciences, Cambridge University, PhD Engineering Magneto-hydrodynamics, University of Warwick, 1973, Higher and Senior Scientific Officer, Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, Bidston, Lecturer, senior lecturer and reader, University of Southampton Department of Oceanography, Head of Department of Oceanography, Professor, University of Southampton School of Ocean and Earth Science, Professorial Fellow, Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton
(Ian, “Discovering the Ocean from Space: The Unique Applications of Satellite Oceanography”, 2010)

<span class="s7">The ocean</span><span class="s4"> of planet Earth </span><span class="s7">… </span><span class="s2">future stability of human civilization.</span>

**Oceanic ecosystem loss risks extinction.**
<span class="s1">**Donahue 11**</span>—Former Reporter for the Time Herald, author of five books on marine life in the Great Lakes
(James, “Pushing the Mother’s Reset Button”, March 7, 2011, http://perdurabo10.tripod.com/warehousek/id61.html)//AW//

//<span class="s4">It is no secret that … </span><span class="s2">to our planet and ourselves**.**</span>//

//<span class="s2">**Independently, earth observation efforts incentivize countries to work together to solve biodiversity which increases US soft power.**</span>//
//<span class="s1">**Wigbels 08** </span>Wigbels, et al ’08,Lyn Wigbels, a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, G. Ryan Faith, program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., and Vincent Sabathier, a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf//

//<span class="s2">Global change presents a stewardship challenge … -lateral discussions on Earth observations</span><span class="s7">. </span>//

//<span class="s2">**Soft power is able to prevent all conflict – laundry list of reasons**</span>//
//<span class="s6">**Jervis 09**</span><span class="s2"> (professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>//AW

<span class="s2">To say that the system … that its leadership is benign.</span>

**Advantage Three: Silence**

**Fossil fuel industries have shut down debate over global warming, infiltrating the public consciousness with doubt. Without data certainty, alternate views have been marginalized, silenced, and replaced with industry jargon creating policy paralysis.**
<span class="s1">**Beder 99**</span>—Visiting professor at the School of Social Sciences, Media, and Communication at the University of Wollongong, focus within power relations, environmental politics and economics, rhetoric of sustainable development, and environmental and corporate trends; written 10 books, 150+ articles, book chapters, and conference papers
(Sharon, “Climatic Confusion and Corporate Collusion: Hijacking the Greenhouse Debate”, The Ecologist, March/April 1999, pp. 119-122)//AW

<span class="s2">In December 1997 the United Nations … concern about global warming since 1991</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**Government policy is corrupted by energy companies —legalized corruption and government dependence on energy makes the government the puppet of power companies.**
<span class="s5">**Justmeans 10**</span>—Green Business News Website
(Solar Feeds, Hermann Scheer: A German Solar Hero, Saturday, 23 October, 2010, http://www.solarfeeds.com/justmeans/14821-hermann-scheer-a-german-solar-hero)

<span class="s2">The government behaved like all … hand of these power companies.</span>

**The concentration of power in the hands of energy companies makes the establishment of an authoritarian energy superpower inevitable.**
<span class="s5">**Scheer 06’**</span>(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 283-234, http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294)

<span class="s2">The central political motive for a … </span><span class="s4">every region of the globe.</span>

**This power realignment leads to the elimination of civic resistance, reinforcing societies’ dependence on the energy state and causing the worst form of conceivable power concentration.**
<span class="s5">**Scheer 06** </span>(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. P 285, http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294)

<span class="s2">Such a development, however, is most … oligarchies, on a transnational ‘energy state’.</span>

**Only a break away from the one-sided discussion of energy systems can solve—speaking out against current one-dimensional thinking is key to prevent authoritarian energy dominance.**
<span class="s5">**Scheer 06** </span>(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)

<span class="s2">In the energy system</span><span class="s4">, too, </span><span class="s2">… formation and their specific consequences.</span>

**The affirmative’s speech act is key—believing that we can move beyond elite control of our energy sources causes paradigm shifts in the political sphere.**
<span class="s5">**Scheer 06** </span>(Hermann Scheer is a Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, The post-fossil future, Le Monde diplomatique, June 2006, http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=133&Itemid=11)

This opportunity for a post-fossil … <span class="s6">this resistance can be overcome.</span>

==Ironic Capitalism== 
===1AC - Harvard=== 
**Contention One: It Ain’t Easy Having Green**

**The rich in America are getting a raw deal—they work too hard, pay too many taxes, and even though they create jobs for the poor, people just won’t stop complaining.**
**Tanner 11**—Cato Institute Senior Fellow
(Michael, “The Real ‘1 Percent,’” 11/8, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=13833)

<span class="s1">So just </span><span class="s2">who are those … hired recently by the poor? </span>

**And this was an especially tough year for Wall Street CEOs like Lloyd Blankfein at Goldman Sachs, Vikram Pandit at Citigroup, and Jamie Dimon at JPMorgan—they saw their pay**
**New York Times 2/3** (“Goldman Gives Blankfein $7 Million Stock Award,” 2012)

<span class="s3">The Goldman Sachs stock price … </span>and their revenue engines stalled.

**The wealthy need a place to move in order to avoid the burdensome government—they shouldn’t have to put up with living in a country who doesn’t appreciate them.**
**Fuelner 2009**—President of the Heritage Foundation
(Edwin, “Tax the Wealthy Even More? That’s Rich,” 10/15, [[%22http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2009/10/tax-the-wealthy|http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2009/10/tax-the-wealthy-even-more-thats-rich]])//

//Your parents probably told you … <span class="s3">for more tax-friendly climes.</span>//

//**Luckily, outer space is the perfect retreat for the mistreated wealthy looking to escape regulation, taxes, and class warfare.**//
//**Riordan, 2004** (Diane, Professor of Business at James Madison, “The Challenge of Taxing Business in Outer Space,”// Challenge//, Vol. 47, No. 6 (NOVEMBER-DECEMBER 2004), pp. 109-116)//

//<span class="s1">Many of </span><span class="s2">society's activities are … or delimited in a physical sense.</span>//

//**And space is like extreme … down at the rest of us**<span class="s2">**.** </span>//
//**XtremeSport 2008** (“"It’s Bungee Jumping for Rich People" – Extreme Vacations,” 8/30, http://xtremesport4u.com/extreme-air-sports/its-bungee-jumping-for-rich-people-extreme-vacations/)//

//<span class="s2">“It’s bungee jumping for … vacation – perhaps THE extreme vacation.</span>//

//**Therefore, Walter Payton offers the following plan:**//

//**The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space by requiring Lloyd Blankfein, Vikram Pandit, and Jamie Dimon to permanently explore space beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**//

//**Contention Two: Psychopathic Capitalism**//

//**Blankfein and his CEO friends on Wall Street lied, cheated, and stole their way to the top and dragged the rest of the country down in their pursuit of greed. They are close to achieving corruption nirvana: caught but still free and entirely above the law.**//
//**Taibbi, 2011** (Matt, Contributing Editor at Rolling Stone, “The People vs. Goldman Sachs,” May 26, [[http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/the-people-vs-goldman-sachs-20110511?print=true]])//
//They weren't murderers or anything; <span class="s3">… still free: above the law.</span>//

//<span class="s1">**And after running the economy and their own companies to the ground, Blankfein, Dimon, and Pandit robbed taxpayers by putting bailout funds directly into their own pockets.** </span>//
//<span class="s2">**Focus.com 2010** (</span>CEO Salaries vs. Company Profits, [[%22http://www.focus.com/fyi/ceo-salaries-vs-|http://www.focus.com/fyi/ceo-salaries-vs-company-profits/]])

<span class="s1">America is still picking up … </span>released disclosing what was discussed.

**Unrestrained corporate greed has created a system of psychopathic capitalism — an illness that is spreading throughout or economy and society which rewards the very wealthy at the expense of everyone else**
<span class="s3">**Ullman 2004**</span>—New York University School … Center in Brooklyn, New York
(Montague, “Corporate Psychopathy,” 2004, http://siivola.org/monte/papers_grouped/uncopyrighted/Misc/corporate_psychopathy.htm)//A<span class="s1">W</span>//

//<span class="s1">In psychiatry there is a diagnostic … knows no geographical limits.</span>//

//**Psychopathic capitalism will result in extinction - it makes nuclear war, environmental degradation, racism, sexism, poverty, and economic downturns all inevitable**//
//<span class="s3">**Brown, 5**</span> — Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan//
//<span class="s5">(Charles Brown, </span>http://www.mail-archive.com/pen-l@sus.csuchico.edu/msg04868.html<span class="s5">)</span>//AW

<span class="s2">The capitalist class owns</span><span class="s1"> … fact of life in the U.S.</span>

**Contention Three: Solvency**

**Severely punishing executives for their crimes would send a strong message that CEO’s are not above the law.**
**Taibbi, 2011**
(Matt, Contributing Editor at Rolling Stone, “Why Isn’t Wall Street in Jail?” March 3, [[http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/why-isnt-wall-street-in-jail-20110216?print=true]])
//Nobody goes to jail.// This … <span class="s1">it would take. Just once."</span>

**And these punishments will unlock a moral imagination that will deter psychopathic behavior.**
**Michaelson, 2005**
(Christopher, Researcher and Lecturer at Penn, “Dealing with Swindlers and Devils: Literature and Business Ethics,” Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 58, No. 4 (Jun., 2005), pp. 359-373)

<span class="s1">"Moral imagination" - defined as "… </span>, that connection is not necessary.

**And battling psychopathy at the very top in the form of the greediest CEOs is vital to ease the illness in the rest of the economy and culture**
**Sims and Brinkman 2003** (Ronald and Johannes, Professor of Business at William and Mary, and Professor at the Norwegian School of Management, “Enron Ethics (Or: Culture Matters More than Codes),” //Journal of Business Ethics//, Vol. 45, No. 3 (Jul., 2003), pp. 243-256)

Leadership mechanisms and organizational culture at Enron
<span class="s1">If corporate leaders encourage rule-… degeneration, lying, cheating, and stealing.</span>

**The discursive framing of attacks on out of control capitalism is key. Advocating solutions that are do not seem to be common sense help spark discussion that politicizes the economic sphere**
**Swanson, 2008** (Jacinda, Associate Professor of Political Science at Western Michigan, “Economic Common Sense and the Depoliticization of the Economic,” Political Research Quarterly, Vol. 61, No. 1 (Mar., 2008), pp. 56-67)

I therefore propose that, in … (see, e.g., Peterson, Albaum, and Kozmetsky 1990,15).

**And space is the best focal point for this discursive strategy – outer space is still an open construct, so actions pertaining to space will spark people’s imaginations.**
**Lupro 2009** [Michael Mooradian, teaches in University Studies at North Carolina A&T State University, doctoral research in American Culture Studies at Bowling Green State University focuses on the intersection of the nascent Space Tourism industry and Popular Music production, “SPACE ODDITIES FOR THE AGE OF SPACE TOURISM”, August 2009]

Space is not the final … <span class="s1">to participate in its construction.</span>

**Space is also uniquely vital to reframing society away from corporate greed – the history of space travel makes it a valuable discursive starting point**
**Burnett 2011** (Bob, “The Public Eye”, The Berkeley Daily Planet, July 18 2011, http://www.berkeleydailyplanet.com/issue/2011-07-20/article/38145?headline=The-Public-Eye-Lost-in-Space-The-Decline-of-the-American-Spirit--By-Bob-Burnett)//AW//

//<span class="s1">”Space: the final frontier… needed now more than ever.</span>//

//**And ironic discourse in the context of unchecked capitalism is especially powerful. Satire is necessary to evoke critical thinking, stop political passivity, and create real change.**//
//**Farrar and Warner 08**—* Associate Professor and Chair of Political Science at Augustana College **Associate Professor of Political Science at Marshall University**//
//**(Margaret and Jamie, “Spectacular Resistance: The Billionaires for Bush and the Art of Political Culture Jamming,” Northeastern Political Science Association, 2008)**//**AW**

**Unlike some critics’ view of … various elements of the show.75**

Satire breaks down power structures even better than policy debates. Exposing the powerful packs a discursive punch that pure debate alone lacks.
Willett**, Professor of Philosophy at Emory, 20**08
**(Cynthia, //Irony in the Age of Empire : Comic Perspectives on Democracy and Freedom.// pg 2-3)**

**The <span class="s1">truth-telling of the </span>**…** when speaking ‘‘truthiness’’ to power.

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===1NC Fool and the Knave=== 

<span class="s1">**Why is it that we continually use the tools of fiat to change the state? Why do we always turn to traditional, leftist politics in the naïve hope that such policies will actually change the existing order?** </span>

<span class="s1">**The 1AC's progressive politics are a poor and futile attempt at using the tools of the state to deconstruct and breakdown harmful and racist practices. It's too bad that such a politics ignores fundamental questions of the structure of both the state and the capitalist system. Every attempt by the negative to snatch back some part of the state's practices for a common good is predicated on a desire for and enjoyment of that snatching, so that we come to love oppression and fear the horrible void of true equality in which we would have no plans to write, no policies to past.**</span>
<span class="s1">**Zizek 1997** Professor of Philosophy at the New School </span>(Slavoj, The Plague of Fantasies)

<span class="s1">In his Seminar on the Ethics of Psychoanalysis, Lacan elaborates...</span>social relationship of domination.

<span class="s1">**We don't always have to be fools or knaves. Rejecting the affirmative's plan doesn't mean we will live in a world of either totalitarianism. We must embrace global and universal alternative, even if utopian or impossible, to fill the void left by Leftist cultural critics and neo-conservatives. Even if our alternative amounts to pure rejection of their plan, it is still much better than occupying and using the tools of the master in a pathetic attempt to snatch away from the master.**</span>
<span class="s1">**Zizek 2000** Professor of Philosophy at the New School </span>(Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality)

<span class="s1">In his Seminar on the Ethics of Psychoanalysis," Lacan developed an opposition between 'knave' and 'fool'...</span>bleeding-heart liberals as Linksfaschismus, so be it!

===1NC Killing God=== 

<span class="s1">**Artaud ’47** </span><span class="s2">[</span>Antonin, //To Have Done with the Judgement of God (Pour en finir avec le jugement de dieu)//, a radio play by Antonin Artaud (1947). Excerpted from the collection: Antonin Artaud //Selected Writings// , Edited, and with an Introduction by Susan Sontag. Translated from the French, //Oeuvres complètes,// by Helen Weaver. University of California Press<span class="s3">, </span><span class="s4">Available at </span>http://ndirty.cute.fi/~karttu/tekstit/artaud.htm]

__I learned yesterday (I must be behind the times...because my body can never be touched.__

===1NC Venus in Furs=== 

**Sacher-Masoch 22** (Leopold, "Venus in Furs," Bookkake, Supervert, 1922)

It is my intent to destroy any possible enjoyment...Accept the punishment you deserve. Read this book. Do it. Now.

==Counterplans== 
===Code of Conduct=== 

**The United States Federal Government should sign and ratify the Code of Conduct for outer space activities.**

**The Code of Conduct strengthens stability in space and ensures weaponization won’t continue.**
<span class="s3">**Listner 7-7** </span>[Michael, legal and policy analyst for the Examiner, 7/7/11, “TCBMs: A New Definition and New Role for Outer Space Security”, http://www.defensepolicy.org/2011/michlis/tcbms-a-new-definition-and-new-role-for-outer-space-security] AS

Mr. Rose also remarked...TCBMs should play in space activities.

===ITAR=== 
**The United States Federal government should exempt commercial space enterprises and their products, services, and technical data that do not implicate national security concerns from the International Traffic in Arms Regulations Act.**

**ITAR is the critical barrier between the US and cooperation with other nations—it destroys trade and commerce cooperation which destroys US industrial and innovative leadership—only reform can create a sustainable future.**
<span class="s6">**Abbey and Lane 9**</span> – George, Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University and Neil, Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University (2009, “United States Space Policy: Challenges and Opportunities Gone Astray,” http://amacad.org/publications/spaceUS.pdf)

<span class="s7">In 2005 we emphasized...</span><span class="s4">this policy and doing so quickly.</span>

===OST=== 

**The United States Federal Government should propose to the UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space that Article IV of the Outer Space Treaty be interpreted to forbid State Parties to the Treaty from 1) placing in orbit around the Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons and/or any other kinds of weapons of mass destruction, kinetic kill vehicles, or directed energy weapons; 2) installing such weapons on celestial bodies; 3) stationing such weapons in outer space in any other manner; and/or 4) attacking objects in outer space with weapons based on Earth.**

<span class="s4">**Re-interpreting Article IV of the Outer Space Treaty averts short-term space weaponization dangers.** </span>
<span class="s6">**Englehart 08**</span> (Alex B. Englehart, contributor to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal at the University of Washington School of Law, January 2008, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE T REATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS”, Pacific Rim Law and Policy Journal, Vol. 17, Num. 1, p.133-157, Jack)

<span class="s4">It will not take much to effectively...to avert the worst dangers</span><span class="s7">.</span>

===Anti-Weapons Announcement=== 

**The president of the United States should publically denounce the act of weaponizing space in a public arena and publically announce willingness to seriously consider and sign international treaties against space weaponization.**

<span class="s4">**Only US leadership can solve—the president must denounce weaponization and announce US willingness to sign anti-weaponization treaties for other nations to follow.**</span>
<span class="s5">**The Independent Institute 2008** </span><span class="s4">(Mike Moore, “Stop the ‘Weaponization’ of Space”, The Independent Institute, March 19, 2008, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2152)//AW</span>

<span class="s4">We would condemn such plans and call on...the effort for the proposed treaty.</span>