Probing Uranus – 1AC

Plan: The United States federal government should send a probe to Uranus.


Inherency – 

The plan will get cut now due to budget shortfalls 

The Christian Science Monitor 2011 [Pete Spotts, - Staff writer March 8, Europa or bust? Maybe not. Lexis] 

The National Research Council …results more quickly. 


Harms

The Advantage is Science Leadership – and what braches off of it

1. US space leadership is low now—Obama’s space program fails because it lacks the excitement that exploration provides

Stern, 10 – aerospace consultant and NASA’s former Associate Administrator in charge of Science (April 19, Alan, “Human spaceflight: diversify the portfolio”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1609/1) 

Instead, human spaceflight in …. rather than the past. 

2. Budget cuts and lack of innovation are destroying US space leadership now 

Mankins, 2009 –25 years at NASA Headquarters and JPL (May 18, John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1)

Space has never been more …. achieve important national security goals. 

3. Only the plan can sustain science leadership in the short term – that’s key to long term growth of our science industry and competitiveness.

Elmegreen 11 – President of the American Astronomical Society [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]

The excitement of scientific …. in astronomy courses annually.

4. Scientific discovery is crucial for our progress – it is necessary for freedom and technological innovation 

Taggart 10 PhD and philosophical counselor, Andrew “With what authority does a public philosopher speak?” http://www.butterfliesandwheels.org/2010/with-what-authority-does-a-public-philosopher-speak/

Fourth, neither can he allude …. being from scientific sources.  

5. Specifically, space science leadership is essential in approaching the potential for extra-terrestrial life – innovation is essential to avoid scientific stagnation

Villard, 2010, Discovery News, “WILL WE DIE OF COSMIC LONELINESS?” http://news.discovery.com/space/will-we-die-of-cosmic-loneliness.html, 

A pair of Russian theoreticians, I. …. life-seeking interstellar probes.

6. Aliens exist and hold the key to artificial intelligence	
Dick 08, Steven, NASA chief historian and an astrophysicist specializing in astrobiology and the postbiological universe, “ Could Robot Aliens Exist?” 8-19-08, Popsci magazine, http://www.popsci.com/popsci-staff/article/2008-08/could-robot-aliens-exist)

The existence of a race of …. warrant their attention. 

7. Artificial intelligence prevents extinction												

Yudkowsky 08, Eliezer, , Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “ Artificial Intelligence as a positive and negative factor in global risk”  Global Catastrophic Risks by:  Nick Bostrom, Milan M. Cirkovic , section 15.3 pg 313 

Vinge (1993) aptly observed that …. liability, matters would be simple. 

8. Also, the lack of science leadership is allowing demagogues to dominate the Global Warming debate – only scientific innovations can save the environment

Berube, 2011, Director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, where he teaches cultural studies and American literature, “The Science Wars Redux,” http://www.democracyjournal.org/pdf/19/BERUBE.pdf

But what of Sokal’s ….Heisenberg himself would be certain.

9. Warming leads to extinction – try or die

Romm 10 (Jon, Editor of Climate Progress, “Disputing the “consensus” on global warming,” http://climateprogress.org/2010/06/16/scientific-consensus-on-global-warming-climate-science/)

A good example of how scientific ….: Hell and High Water“).

10. Oceans acid levels are the worst they have been in 300 million years, is killing marine life – oceans will only get worse until we find a solution to global warming
Parry, March 2012, Wynne Parry,LiveScience Senior Writer (The Christian Science Monitor: http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2012/0302/Ocean-acidification-worst-in-300-million-years-study-finds-video, Researchers at Columbia University have found that carbon dioxide emissions have lowered the pH at a rate unparalleled in at least the last 300 million years of our planet's history.)
Rising carbon dioxide levels …. conclude in their paper. 

11. Science leadership is key to hegemony and soft power

Coletta, 09 – Duke University , Ph.D. in Political Science, Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]

To discover sustainable hegemony …. to build epistemic communities.

12. Soft power solves extinction

Nye, 08 –distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]

Etzioni is correct that a …. pages developing one for Iran.


13. STEM education is the key internal link to the US economy 

The Hill, 11 [Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas), “U.S. Economic Future Needs STEM Education”, April 1th, 2011, http://opportunityequation.org/news-press/us-economic-future-needs-stem] 

The United States has begun …. lower than their White counterparts.




Solvency 

1. Probes to Uranus are key to dominance – in science and space leadership. It is vital to exoplanet research. Uranus probes stimulate science students.

Squyres, Nov 15, 2011 – prof of Astronomy at Cornell [Steven http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=39057 Statement of Steven Squyres: Hearing on NASA Planetary Programs House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

Mr. Chairman and Members …. recommended by the NRC's decadal survey.


2. Launching space exploration probes increases public excitement and support for technology leadership

Bishop, 2011, Astrobiologist, SETI Institute & NASA-Ames Research Center [Janice, March 1, 2011, What Obama and Congress Should Do for Spaceflight & Space Exploration, SPACE.com, http://www.space.com/10985-obama-congress-space-exploration-budget.html]

The two most productive actions …. Principal Investigator, NASA's Kepler Mission

3. Planetary missions are essential for scientific discovery – probes to Uranus will provide essential knowledge about the solar system and the Earth

Atreya 2005 [MULTIPROBE EXPLORATION OF THE GIANT PLANETS – SHALLOW PROBES. Sushil k. Atreya, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Ebscohost]

In summary, multiple probes ….return and to realize cost savings.

4. Planetary probes are critical to space exploration – they return essential scientific data

Cox, 09- prof of Engineering at University of Idaho[Entry Probe Missions to the Giant Planets, Cox, David H. September 8, 2009 Ebscohost.] 

IV. Mission Recommendations Giant Planet Probe …. missions to any of these targets.

5. Specifically, Planetary probes are essential to global warming solutions – they are key to atmospheric science 

Spilker, 2009 [Entry Probe Missions to the Giant Planets. T.R. Spilker. American Geophysical Union, Fall Meeting Fall of 2009 http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2009AGUFM.P43A1429S]

The primary motivation for in situ ….where the measurements are best made.


6. The Uranus probe is key to atmospheric science – it is an Ice Giant planet, which matches many newly discovered planets

Sayanagi, 2011, Staff Writer for ars technica [Kunio M., March 14, 2011, Planetary Exploration 2013-2022: Scientists are ready, what about you?, Ars Technica, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2011/03/planetary-exploration-2013-2022-scientists-are-ready-what-about-you.ars]

The third Flagship priority is to send an orbiter to fly around Uranus …. of these other worlds.

7.  Planetary probes enhance US scientific leadership – empirically they cause  technological spinoffs and excite scientific enthusiasm

FrumForum, 2011 [Kenneth Silber, Staff Writer March 10, 2011, NASA Budget Grounds Space Probes, FrumForum, http://www.frumforum.com/nasa-budget-grounds-space-probes]

Of course, times are tough …. Washington’s gravitational field.