=Aff I @ OVI= 
==Act I is Denouement!== 

<span class="Underline">**This is not going to be a typical policy debate. For far too long policy debate has been a medium of false neutrality—claiming non-bias in the face of social unrest and global societal transformation. Policy debate is far from the critical thinking activity it was intended to be and has become a place of political complacency. We have come to think more about link turning politics and winning a reduced link threshold for ridiculous nuclear war scenarios. We have come to incentivize shoddy link-work and awful impact cards just so they read EXTINCTION.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Well, Danger, Will Robinson! We are here to retake the ceded political and forge a new space for the left to take back the political—and the tabroom—from neoconservatives and reactionaries who have ruined the economy and foreign policy, and ultimately policy debate.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Tyler and I are here to destabilize the debate community: We are the Occupy movement reterritorializing the space of policy debate. The two of us stand in solidarity with the Arab Spring and Occupy Movement to transform the debate community from a tool of resume-building and a mode of intellectual masturbation for the 1%, the affluent 16-and-17-year-olds imagining the specter of nuclear war to a forum for social change and debating the future.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**We will not lay out our demands, because we have none. However, we will defend two things:**</span>
<span class="Underline">**1. Policy debate is an obsolete and dangerous paradigm, especially considering fiat and conditionality, that does not function in the real world.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**2. True political protest and engagement should begin in debate, because our task is to debate and/or create new critical thinkers to solve problems. Debate should be a site of infinite possibilities and reterritorializations, a constant moving-towards revolution in which all of politics is an immanent process rather than a goal or end.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Put away your government good and political reform is awesome cards—this is going to be a real debate over real-world issues. At the intersection of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, policy debate decided to talk about the most utopian possibility—space exploration. We’re bringing policy debate back to Earth.**</span>

=Act II is our Framework and Your Framework= 

<span class="Underline">**We must begin with the template of a new movement.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Our framework proposition is this: The role of the ballot is to endorse the best sincere political strategy for real-world change.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Our 1ac advocacy is the red ink, the language and manifestation of an alternative—the possibility of a new policy debate. Zizek in ’11 explains:** </span>
<span class="Underline">(Slavoj, Slovenian Sage; Transcript of his Speech To Occupy Wall Street, transcribed by Sarahana; </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.imposemagazine.com/bytes/slavoj-zizek-at-occupy-wall-street-transcript]]</span>; October 25, NKN)
So what are we doing here? **__Let me tell you a wonderful, old joke from Communist times. A guy was sent from East Germany to work in Siberia__**__. He knew his mail would be read by censors, so he told his friends: “**Let’s establish a code. If a letter you get from me is written in blue ink, it is true what I say. If it is written in red ink, it is false.” After a month, his friends get the first letter. Everything is in blue.** It says, this letter: “Everything is wonderful here. Stores are full of good food. Movie theatres show good films from the west. Apartments are large and luxurious. The only thing you cannot buy is red ink.” This is how we live. **We have all the freedoms we want. But what we are missing is red ink: the language to articulate our non-freedom. The way we are taught to speak about freedom— war on terror and so on—falsifies freedom. And this is what you are doing here. You are giving all of us red ink**__**.**

**If distance sustains ideology, what is there left for us to do? We must eliminate the distance between ideology and ourselves. Our protest action and speech act are true risks with the possibility of the loss of the ballot—not politically neutral facades.**
**Zizek 95**
Slavoj Zizek Philosopher and Psychoanalyst, Institute for Social Sciences,UniversityofLjubljana. Cardozo Law Review 1995
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">How are we to combat effectively this id-evil which, on account of its "elementary" nature, remains impervious to any rational or even purely rhetorical argumentation? Racism is always grounded in a particular fantasy, which by definition resists universalization</span>. n29 <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The translation of the racist fantasy into the universal medium of symbolic intersubjectivity</span> (the Habermasian ethics of dialogue<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">) in no way weakens the hold of the racist fantasy upon us</span>. n30 <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">If we are to undermine this power of fantasy, a different political strategy is needed - a strategy able to incorporate what Lacan called</span> "la traversee du fantasme," n31 <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">a strategy of overidentification, which takes into account the fact that the obscene superego qua basis and support of the public law is operative only insofar as it remains unacknowledged, hidden to the public eye. What if, instead of an ironic critical dissection which reveals their impotence before the face of racism's fantasmatic kernel, we proceed a contrario and publicly identify with the obscene superego</span>? In the process of the disintegration of socialism in Slovenia, the postpunk group Laibach staged an aggressive inconsistent mixture of Stalinism, Nazism, and Blut und Boden ideology. The first reaction of the enlightened leftist critics in Slovenia was to conceive of Laibach as the ironic imitation of totalitarian rituals. However, their support of Laibach was always accompanied by an uneasy feeling: "What if they really mean it? What if they truly identify with the totalitarian ritual?" Or, a more cunning version of it, transferring their own doubt onto the Other: "What if Laibach overestimates its public?" "What if the public takes seriously what Laibach mockingly imitates, so that Laibach actually strengthens what it purports to undermine?" Their uneasy feeling is fed on the assumption that ironic distance is automatically a subversive attitude<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. What if,</span> on the contrary, <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the dominant attitude of the contemporary "postideological" universe is precisely the cynical distance towards public values? What if this distance, far from posing any threat to the system, designates the supreme form of conformism, since the normal functioning of the system required cynical distance</span>? In this case, the strategy of Laibach appears in a new light: it frustrates the system (the ruling ideology) precisely insofar as it is distanced from its ironic imitation; but overidentifi- [*937] cation with it, by bringing to light the obscene superego underside of the system, suspends its efficiency. n32 The ultimate expedient of Laibach is their deft manipulation of transference; their public (especially intellectuals) is obsessed with the "desire of the Other" - whether Laibach's actual position is truly totalitarian or not. They address Laibach with a question and expect an answer, failing to notice the crucial fact that Laibach itself does not function as an answer but as a question. By means of the elusive character of their desire, the indecision regarding where they actually stand, Laibach compels us to take a position and decide upon our desire. Laibach actually accomplishes here the reversal that defines the psychoanalytic cure<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. At the outset of the cure is transference: the transferential relationship is put in force as soon as the analyst appears in the guise of the subject who is supposed to know the truth about the patient's desire. When, in the course of the psychoanalysis, the patient complains that he does not know what he wants, the complaint is addressed to the analyst, with the implicit supposition that the analyst already knows it. In other words, insofar as the analyst stands for the big Other, the analyst's illusion lies in reducing his ignorance about his desire to an "epistemological" incapacity: the truth about his desire already exists, it is registered somewhere in the big Other, and one has only to bring it to light and his desiring will run smoothly</span>. The end of psychoanalysis, dissolution of transference, designates the moment when the question that the patient aimed at the analyst turns back towards the patient himself. First, the patient's (hysterical) question addressed an analyst who was supposed to possess the answer; now, the analyst is forced to acknowledge that he is merely a reflective question mark addressed back to the patient. Here, one can explain Lacan's thesis that an analyst is authorized only by himself: n33 the patient becomes the analyst upon assuming that his desire has no support in the Other, that the authorization of his desire has no support in the Other, and that the authorization of his desire can come only from himself. Insofar as this rever- [*938] sal defines drive, one can explain Lacan's thesis that what takes place at the end of psychoanalysis is the shift from desire to drive. n34

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Totalitarianism is the product of utopian politics. Stalin and Hitler could commit horrible acts of violence in the name of bringing about a harmonious new social order. The focus of our debate is on the possibility we have—even we are skeptical about changing debate—but we must try.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 108-110). </span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">As Jerrold Post has pointed out, we are always bound to those we hate: ‘We need enemies to keep our treasured—and idealised—selves intact’ (Post, 1996:28–9). And this for ‘fear of being free’ (Sartre, 1995:27). __The fantasy of attaining a perfect harmonious world, of realising the universal, can only be sustained through the construction/localisation of a certain particularity which cannot be assimilated but, instead, has to be eliminated.__ There exists then a crucial dialectic between the universal fantasy of utopia and the particularity of the—always local—enemy who is posited as negating it. The result of this dialectic is always the same: __The tragic paradox of utopianism has been that instead of bringing about, as it promised, a system of final and permanent stability, it gave rise to utter restlessness, and in place of a reconciliation__ between human freedom and social cohesion, __it brought totalitarian coercion__. (Talmon, 1971:95) In that sense, as it was implicitly argued in Chapter 2, the notion of fantasy constitutes an exemplary case of a dialectical //coincidentia opositorum.//13 On the one hand, fantasy has a beatific side, a stabilising dimension, it is identical to ‘the dream of a state without disturbances, out of reach of human depravity’; on the other hand, we have fantasy as something profoundly ‘destabilising’: ‘__And does the fundamental lesson of so-called totalitarianism not concern the co-dependence of these two aspects of the notion of fantasy__?’ asks </span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">i</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">ek. All those who aspire fully to realise its first harmonious side have recourse to its other dark dimension in order to explain their failure: __the foreclosed obverse of the Nazi harmonious //Volksgemeinschaft// returned in their paranoiac obsession with ‘the Jewish plot’__. Similarly, __the Stalinist’s compulsive discovery of ever-new enemies of socialism was the inescapable obverse of their pretending to realise the idea of the ‘New Socialist Man’.__ (</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">i</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">ek, 1996a:116) For </span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">i</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">ek__, these two dimensions ‘are like front and back of the same coin: insofar as a community experiences its reality as regulated, structured, by fantasy, it has to disavow__ its inherent impossibility, __the antagonism in its very heart—and fantasy (the figure of the ‘conceptual Jew’ for example) gives body to this disavowal__. In short, __the effectiveness of fantasy is the condition for fantasy to maintain its hold’__ (ibid.). __Utopia is not that far from dystopia.__ What is at stake in the Lacanian conception of fantasy is, as we have already pointed out, enjoyment //(jouissance).// If the effects of the normative idealist or Enlightenment-style critique of racism are severely limited, if this critique is not enough (Lipowatz, 1995a:213), this is because, to use one of Sloterdijk’s formulations, it ‘has remained more naive than the consciousness it wanted to expose’ (Sloterdijk, 1988:3). In its rationality it has exhausted itself. In other words, it didn’t take into account that what is at stake here is not rational argumentation but the organisation and administration of enjoyment: The impotence of the attitude of traditional Enlightenment is best exemplified by the anti-racist who, at the level of rational argumentation, produces a series of convincing reasons against the racist Other, but is nonetheless clearly fascinated by the object of his critique—and consequently, all his defence disintegrates in the moment of real crisis (when ‘the fatherland is in danger’ for example). (Sloterdijk, 1988:3) __Thus, the question__ of //la traversée du fantasme,// that is to say __‘of how to gain the minimum of distance from the fantasmatic frame that organises our enjoyment, of how to suspend its efficiency, is crucial not only for the concept of the psychoanalytic cure and its conclusion:__ __today, in our era of renewed racist tensions, of universalised anti-Semitism, it is perhaps the foremost political question’__ (</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">i</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ž</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10pt;">ek, 1996a:117–18). In light of this, __traversing the fantasy of utopian thought seems to be one of the most important political tasks of our age__. The current crisis of utopia is not cause for concern but for celebration. But then why is the politics of today a politics of aporia? There can be only one plausible explanation: just because, in the ethical sphere, the fantasmatic ideal of harmony is still dominant. If we are situated today in a terrain of aporia and frustration it is because we still fantasise something that is increasingly revealed as impossible and catastrophic. __Accepting this ultimate impossibility seems to be the only way out of this troubling state.__</span>

<span class="Underline">**Their attempt at framework is the manifestation of the oppression and lack of imagination policy debate has created—putting proposition and statement to the obvious: no real demands, no change to the monolithic activity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zizek ’11 explains:**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Slavoj, Slovenian Sage; Transcript of his Speech To Occupy Wall Street, transcribed by Sarahana; </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.imposemagazine.com/bytes/slavoj-zizek-at-occupy-wall-street-transcript]]</span>; October 25, NKN)
<span class="Underline">In April 2011, the </span>**__Chinese government prohibited on TV and films and in novels all stories that contain alternate reality or time travel. This is a good sign for China. It means that people still dream about alternatives, so you have to prohibit this dream. Here we don’t think of prohibition. Because the ruling system has even suppressed our capacity to dream. Look at the movies that we see all the time. It’s easy to imagine the end of the world. An asteroid destroying all life and so on. But you cannot imagine the end of capitalism__**<span class="Underline">. So what are we doing here? Let me tell you a wonderful old joke from communist times. </span>

=Act III is the stakes, or ceding the Political= 

**Our process of protest is the only means of reinvigorating the sphere of debate—only we control the internal link to a new, open politics that can’t be ceded to the right**
**Boggs ‘97**
“The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America” Carl Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, “Theory and Society,” Vol. 26, No. 6 (Dec., 1997), pp. 741-780 <http://www.jstor.org/stable/657934>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">At the same time, __any process of repoliticization will have to be carried out in a context where the whole field of political activity has been fundamentally altered.__ One of the major effects of corporate colonization is what Ulrich Beck refers to as the ``systemic transformation of the political'' ^ the considerable loss of power in the centralized political system itself, severely reducing its capacity to plan, regulate, and intervene in effective ways. As Beck observes: ``The concepts, foundations, and instruments of politics (and non-politics) are becoming unclear, open and in need of a historically new determination.'' 76 Where the Hobbesian ``solution'' to fragmentation or extreme localism does not or cannot work owing to historical and cultural traditions, __the push toward decentralization may be irreversible__. Many of the conventional functions of government will be more difficult to perform according to a model where strong leaders exercise more or less unchallenged authority. __Hence a truly revitalized politics will have to be more open and collective, more decentralized, and more infused with civic virtues as the conditions favoring a single center of politics erode.__ </span>

Danger and destruction are inevitable without real, on-the-ground politics – debate must become a means of true political participation and not acting as the levers of power to change society and our minds.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyte ‘3</span>
(Harry C., Senior Fellow, Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, The Good Society, 12.2, p. 8-9)
Sometimes there is an intractable clash of interests and power relations—a dynamic Dewey neglected with too singular a focus on "social intelligence" as a power resource that could replace "coercion." Yet sometimes, especially with vision, skill, and determination, __politics can negotiate clashing interests for the sake of solving public problems and creating public things. This is "a different kind of politics," a view of politics as productive and generative__, not simply a bitter distributive struggle over scarce resources. __Politics is the way people with widely divergent values and from very different backgrounds can work together to build the commonwealth. **This broader sense of politics can only be sustained if it is widely dispersed—not the property of the professional political class or the state**. Today in practical terms, there is urgent need to spread back out the ownership of politics if we are to have any hope of reversing the enormous momentum of the marketplace and technology, and their anti-political ways of thinking__. It is in the short term but overwhelming interest of political leaders to over-promise or declare themselves "in charge," patterns which increasingly alienate the citizenry. Further, politics defined by elections necessarily emphasizes partisanship. It thus eclipses the interplay of diverse interests—and the development of skills essential to negotiate such interplay—that is at the heart of politics in the richest understanding of the term. __The British theorist Bernard Crick__, in his great 1962 dissenting work against the vein, In Defense of Politics, __stressed politics as "a great and civilizing activity." He emphasized politics as negotiation of diverse views and interests__. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Drawing on Aristotle's The Politics, Crick argued that politics is about plurality, not similarity. Aristotle had proposed that an emphasis on the "unity" of the political community destroyed its defining quality. He contrasted politics with military alliance, based on "similarity" of aim. In this vein, Crick defended politics against a list of forces which he saw as obliterating recognition of plurality. Its "enemies" included nationalism, technology, and mass democracy, as well as partisans of conservative, liberal, and socialist ideologies.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/journals/good_society/v012/12.2boyte.html#FOOT19|19]]</span> In the fifties and beyond, the professionalization of mediating institutions such as political parties, unions, schools, and universities eroded the everyday experiences of politics through which people learned skills of dealing with others unlike themselves, and developed some sense of their productive contribution to the larger democracy. It replaced a horizontal relationship among citizens as a wide experience of politics with an increasingly vertical political relationship of the citizen in relation to the state, as Addams had foreseen in 1902. Across many institutions, people increasingly became defined as "clients" served by professionals who understood themselves to be "experts." Meanwhile, the rise of the consumer culture created different visions of the "good life" as about consumption, not production. These are themes I have elsewhere treated in some detail. Here, [End Page 9] I want to emphasize their conceptual counterpart, the way current civic theory has lost the Deweyian insight that citizens make democracy.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/journals/good_society/v012/12.2boyte.html#FOOT20|20]]</span> The de-politicization of most social life is illustrated by comparing the views of "communitarians" with those of "liberals," the leading schools of political theory. Despite differences, both remove citizens from politics, except on the (relatively rare) occasions when citizens vote, protest, or otherwise interact with their government and elected officials.</span> __Today current communitarian theory is a resource in America's anti-politics politics, a politics of innocence in which almost everyone eschews responsibility for addressing the troubles of our time__. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Communitarian theorists have made helpful criticisms of a view of the citizen as simply an individual bearer of rights. Yet their positive concept of citizenship has created a moral repertoire easily mobilized in a Manichean world view. Communitarian theory is advanced by, among others, Bowling Alone author Robert Putnam, Amitai Etzioni, founder of the Communitarian Caucus, and Bush advisor Don Eberly. Communitarians stress what Etzioni calls "the social dimension of human existence." They express alarm about the fraying of what they see as the underlying moral fabric of the nation that is essential to a well-functioning democracy. They argue that America suffers from excessive individualism, an overemphasis on rights and an under-emphasis on responsibilities, and an increasingly litigious culture where citizens seek resolution of conflicts through the courts. In communitarianism, the citizen is defined as a member of the community who expresses his or her citizenship through acts of volunteering and service. Communitarians strike a chord by decrying a decline in America's community involvement and voluntary spirit in a world that seems increasing depersonalized and fragmented. Yet calls for compassionate, community-minded volunteers do not convey boldness, intelligence, gritty determination in the face of adversity, courage in fighting injustice, or capacities for sustained work with others outside our "community" with whom we may have sharp disagreements. An etymology of service, a concept at the heart of communitarianism, illustrates the problem. Service is from the Latin root, servus, meaning slave. The history of the word is associated with terms such as "servile," "serf," and "servant." Service does not necessarily imply servitude. In one of its meanings, performing the duties connected with a position, service and derivatives such as public service, community service, and service learning have been useful bridges for public institutions to re-connect with the world. In this meaning, service sometimes provides a starting point for political involvement. Yet in all meanings service is associated with other-directedness. The service giver, in focusing on the needs and interests and desires of those being served, adopts a stance of altruism or selflessness. Whether motivated by desire for concealment or by self-abnegation, this submerges the interests and identity of the server. The view of citizenship as voluntarism and service has been hotly debated during recent years. There continue to be voices arguing for "political" citizenship. Liberal theorists such as Michael Schudson, Theda Skocpol, Ziad Munson and Marshall Gans challenge communitarians on just these grounds. Such scholars draw on social movements whose theme was the struggle for distributive justice. Yet while the struggle for justice remains crucial, a singular focus on justice narrows the range of politics and people's political interests dramatically, while liberalism's state-centered quality emphasizes a vertical, not a horizontal, understanding of political relations. For all the radical differences between a focus on "service" or "justice," or between communitarian and liberal views of citizenship broadly, there are also similarities in the ways both camps think about democracy and civic agency. At bottom, both define politics, as citizens practice it, as a distributive activity associated with government—a fight over who gets what. </span>__Because public action necessarily involves productive and generative dimensions____—in the global context, for instance, it involves creating the conditions for security and survival itself__—this view marginalizes the amateur, and identifies democracy, in turn, with elections. It cedes to elected officials the mandate to take up the generative and productive tasks of politics. As a result, political discourse takes on an increasingly bitter and competitive quality at home, while abroad America's stance in the world is increasingly protective, unilateralist, and bellicose. __Only a different politics, built around abundance and citizen agency, can transform the equation.__[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/journals/good_society/v012/12.2boyte.html#FOOT21|21]]

**Defending truth values by holding oppressors accountable to determinate meanings is vital to preventing extinction—each individual’s actions are vital**
**Ketels, 96** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Violet, professor of English at Temple University, The Annals of The American Academy of Political and Social Science, November, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most profound insights into this process that gradually penetrated social consciousness sufficiently to make revolution possible can be read in the role Vaclav Havel played before and during Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution. As George Steiner reflects, while "the mystery of creative and analytic genius . . . is given to the very few," others can be "woken to its presence and exposed to its demands." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n24|24]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Havel possesses that rare creative and analytic genius. We see it in the spaciousness of his moral vision for the future, distilled from the crucible of personal suffering and observation; in his poet's ability to translate both experience and vision into language that comes as close as possible to truth and survives translation across cultures; in the compelling force of his personal heroism. Characteristically, Havel raises local experience to universal relevance. "If today's planetary civilization has any hope of survival," he begins, "that hope lies chiefly in what we understand as the human spirit." He continues</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">If we don't wish to destroy ourselves in national, religious or political discord</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">; </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">if we don't wish to find our world with twice its current population, half of it dying of hunger; if we don't wish to kill ourselves with ballistic missiles armed with atomic warheads or eliminate ourselves with bacteria specially cultivated for the purpose</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">; if we don't wish to see some people go desperately hungry while others throw tons of wheat into the ocean; </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">if we don't wish to suffocate in the global greenhouse </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we are heating up for ourselves or to be burned by radiation leaking through holes we have made in the ozone; </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">if we don't wish to exhaust the nonrenewable, mineral resources of this planet, without which we cannot survive; if, in short, we don't wish any of this to happen, then we must--as humanity</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, as people, as conscious beings with spirit, mind and a sense of responsibility--</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">somehow come to our senses</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n25|25]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Somehow we must come together in "a kind of general mobilization of human consciousness, of the human mind and spirit, human responsibility, human reason." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n26|26]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Prague Spring was "the inevitable consequence of a long drama originally played out chiefly in the theatre of the spirit and the conscience of society," a process triggered and sustained "by individuals willing to live in truth even when things [*52] were at their worst." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n27|27]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The process was hidden in "the invisible realm of social consciousness," conscience, and the subconscious. It was indirect, long-term, and hard to measure. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n28|28]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So, too, its continuation that exploded into the Velvet Revolution, the magic moment when 800,000 citizens, jamming Wenceslas Square in Prague, jingled their house keys like church bells and changed from shouting "Truth will prevail" to chanting "Havel to the castle." Havel developed his thinking in plays, petitions, letters, samizdat essays and addresses, written both in and out of prison, circulated at peril of new imprisonment, sometimes at peril of death: his is a humanist philosophy wrested from the logic of cruel experience, an anatomy of the process of social transformation, and a practical political strategy. He specifies to post-totalitarian societies, including Western democracies, for whom his reading of the Czech experience stands as warning and instruction, the relevance to us of his passionately argued convictions. His prescience is amazing; his candid truthfulness, startling. In an utterly original departure from received wisdom, he discredits the two basic political strategies between which he thinks Western intellectuals unwittingly oscillate: (1) inventing and deploying further weapons of mass destruction "for the defense of democracy"; and (2) joining peace movements. Both strategies "colonize" human consciousness by moving it toward the same global totalitarianism; the second effectively makes the just mind ineffectual by "preoccupying it, then occupying it, and ultimately rendering it intellectually harmless." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n29|29]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Opposition to totalitarian systems is fumbling and futile if we fail to see them for what they really are: "a convex mirror of all modern civilization and a harsh, perhaps final call for a global recasting of how that civilization understands itself." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n30|30]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The enemy is the momentum of impersonal power, whether wielded by technocrats or tyrants, which defines totalitarianism of territory and spirit.</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Defeating the enemy depends on routing totalitarianism from the structure of contemporary humanity, from our very souls.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The question is whether we shall succeed in reconstituting the natural world as the true terrain of politics, rehabilitating . . . personal experience as the initial measure of things, placing morality above politics and responsibility above our desires, in making human community meaningful, in returning content to human speech, in reconstituting, as the focus of all social action, the autonomous, integral, and dignified human "I," responsible for ourselves because we are bound to something higher, and capable of sacrificing something, in extreme cases even everything . . . for the sake of that which gives life meaning. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n31|31]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Havel translates densely philosophical probing into simple principles of action by which individuals can resist alienating pressure. True to his genius for globalizing local experience, Havel defines the alienating pressure so as to include "consumption, [*53] advertising, repression, technology, or cliche--all of which are the blood brothers of fanaticism and the wellspring of totalitarian thought." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n32|32]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> All of us, then, wherever we live, under whatever form of government, have a stake in the human struggle and a solution to try, personally, you and I, and all of us together. </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">We are not powerless</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Havel learned from his particular experiment</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in "anti-political politics" something of essential and universal importance: </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">that a single, seemingly powerless person who dares to cry out the word of truth and to stand behind it </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">with all his person and all his life, </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">ready to pay a high price, has, surprisingly, greater power, though formally disfranchised, than do thousands of anonymous voters</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n33|33]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A realist as well as a visionary with projective imagination, Havel acknowledges that most of such individual expressions remain rudimentary revolts, but he points out, "Here and there, a more coherent and visible initiative may emerge . . . that transcends 'merely' individual revolt and is transformed into more conscious, structured, and purposeful work." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n34|34]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">He cites as an example Soviet fears of just such a transformation in the case of Solzhenitsyn, who was expelled from Russia in the regime's desperate attempt "to plug up the dreadful wellspring of truth," a truth that might have caused "incalculable transformations in social consciousness</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">which in turn might one day produce political debacles unpredictable in their consequences." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n35|35]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rockets aimed at this or that state are less dangerous to the enemy than human beings taking responsibility for the world, which presupposes our seeing ourselves in the convex mirror and absorbing the fearful lesson that suppression of human beings in Prague or Moscow or Mostar threatens suppression of all human beings everywhere. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n36|36]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In his speech on 8 May 1993 commemorating the Czech Liberation Day, Havel, now president, pointed to the "impotence of contemporary German democracy and the inability to present a united front to rampant Nazis." The policy of appeasement, suicidal in the 1930s and 1940s, is proving so now: It is bowing down before evil and its terrible consequences for the whole world, if politicians and whole nations forget that a threat to the freedom of one country threatens the freedom of all nations. Indifference to others and to the community opens the door to evil. The message is we cannot afford to be indifferent. This sensible statement, suggesting a Czech national moral obligation to intervene in Yugoslavia, prompted instant disavowal by the Czech prime minister. It is hard to resist seeing in that disavowal a political difference between the two men that, given the peculiar constraints of the Czech constitution, threatens to throttle the immediate effectiveness of Havel's presidency. It is, moreover, a lesson about the distance between morality and power that must be negotiated by anyone who tries to change anything from inside a political system. Havel's antipolitical politics is practical morality, service to truth, [*54] not a technique of power and manipulation. It is evident, he writes, "that wholly personal categories like good and evil still have their unambiguous content and, under certain circumstances, are capable of shaking the seemingly unshakable power with all its armies of soldiers, policemen, and bureaucrats." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n37|37]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> He grounds his hopes on a conviction that "the essential aims of life are present naturally in every person," and he defines them as a desire for dignity, for free expression of being, and "a sense of transcendence over the world of existence," a yearning to live in truth. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n38|38]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Alongside this magnanimous view of human potential, he keeps in mind its opposite pole: that we are all capable of trivializing our humanity by merging into the manipulated, unprincipled, anonymous crowd, with its insatiable demand for complicity in its lies. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fdf65367957929014062cbd6ec20591&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=379d63c16278cd52310a5c612eb51a93&focBudTerms=havel%20to%20the%20castle&focBudSel=all#n39|39]]</span>

=Act IV is the Future of the Project= 

<span class="Underline">**Put away your Ks and framework—it is the struggle and risk of failure that makes any project possible. The K alternative and fiat are just fantasies that cloud the possibility of real protest that came with real work and risk.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zizek ’11** (Slavoj, Slovenian sage, “Occupy first. Demands come later.” The Guardian, October 26; </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/oct/26/occupy-protesters-bill-clinton]]</span>; NKN)
<span class="Underline">**Carnivals come cheap – the true test of their worth is what remains the day after, how our normal daily life will be changed. The protesters should fall in love with hard and patient work – they are the beginning, not the end**. Their basic message is: **the taboo is broken; we do not live in the best possible world; we are allowed, obliged even, to think about alternatives**. In a kind of Hegelian triad, the western left has come full circle: after abandoning the so-called "class struggle essentialism" for the plurality of anti-racist, feminist, and other struggles, capitalism is now clearly re-emerging as the name of the problem. So the first lesson to be taken is: **do not blame people and their attitudes**. The problem is not corruption or greed, **the problem is the system** that pushes you to be corrupt. The solution is not "Main Street, not Wall Street", but to change the system where Main Street cannot function without Wall Street. **There is a long road ahead, and soon we will have to address the truly difficult questions** – not questions of what we do not want, but about what we do want. What social organisation can replace the existing capitalism? What type of new leaders do we need? What organs, including those of control and repression? **The 20th-century alternatives obviously did not work**. </span>

**And only our solidarity to a real and growing movement of occupation solves. Ideology only exists because we give it symbolic authority.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnston</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Dept of Philisophy at Univ. of New Mexico, **2004** (Adrian, “The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Žižek and the Dynamics of Belief, Pshycoanalysis, Culture, and Society, December)</span>
Žižek makes the paradoxical move of arguing, alongside his rejection of a stable distinction between subjectivity and sociality, that the big Other<span class="underline0"> of the symbolic order </span>only effectively exists (albeit in an illusory, ephemeral fashion) <span class="underline0">insofar </span>as subjects treat it “as if” it possessed a stable, independent reality as an overarching system<span class="underline0"> of collective mediation—“there is an ‘objective’ socio-symbolic system only insofar as subjects treat it as such.”</span> Žižek continues, insisting that, “Lacan is… no Durkheimian: he opposes any reification of the Institution, i.e., he knows very well that the Institution is here only as the performative effect of the subject’s activity. The Institution exists only when subjects believe in it<span class="underline0">, or, rather, act (in their social interactivity) AS IF they believe in it.” </span>The big Other is<span class="underline0">, in a manner of speaking, nothing </span>more than a self-fulfilling prophecy<span class="underline0">.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">An appropriate analogy/metaphor here is a group of people, none of who want anything to do with the others, being brought together for a social function such as a party. None of the participants in the party has any desire to be there. In short, the urge or inclination to sustain the social group is nowhere to be found amongst any of the constituent elements of the group. And yet, the gathering happens (the party actually takes place and lasts for the specified period of time in spite of everyone’s contrary desires). The sole requisite condition for this is that each person believes that the other people there have a desire to engage in this social function. The very glue that holds the entire event together is the fact that each person in attendance attributes to or projects onto his/her respective others the desire to be there (a desire ostensibly absent in each and every person making this attribution or doing this projecting).</span> <span class="underline0">A belief in the “desire of the Other”</span> (in this case, the subjectively hypothesized/hypostatized “general will” of the collective of others) <span class="underline0">prompts subjects caught up in this dynamic to apply to themselves the felt pressure of obligation necessary for their de facto acquiescence to the given social arrangement. A virtual, nonexistent desire, a spectral desire with enough power concretely to shape social reality, arises, in a bottom-up, emergent fashion, out of a network of attributions and projections. This desire doesn’t exist within any of the particular nodes of the network, and yet nonetheless circulates throughout the network as its unifying force.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The odd implication here is that, on this Lacanian-Žižekian account, banal human reality is an ex nihilo effect produced through the mutual interpellation of two voids wherein each (erroneously) posits the existence of the other. On one side, the “barred S” of subjectivity is conjured into being through a resistance generated by and against insertion into the symbolic order’s chains of signifiers (i.e., the subject, although perpetually escaping confinement within determinate representations, is parasitically dependent upon the representational networks of the big Other); on another side</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the big Other</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 8pt;">, supposedly responsible for giving birth to subjectivity,</span>is itself an inexistent fiction or “transcendental illusion,” a function reliant upon the manners in which subjects actively-yet-unwittingly alienate themselves by reifying it (Lacan signals this dimension of the grand Autre by “barring” it in addition to the subject). <span class="underline0">Reality is hence sustained in the space of overlap between the barred subject and the barred Other. </span>One is reminded of Lacan’s claim that an ideal image of the relation between subject and Other is two interlocking tori, a unity held together as a consistent whole insofar as each torus passes through the empty space at the center of its complementary partner (the core of each of these entities being utterly vacant).

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Localized tactics are preferable to monolithic and singular strategies for engaging the state. Tactics without a predetermined teleological conclusion allow for infinite revolutionary potential; thus, engaging the political is not a singular event—it is a process. Our process is bolstered and strengthened by the delay of conclusion, allowing a method which encounters and resonates between tactics in order to grow in strength when experiencing opposition and counter-tactics. Policy debate is self-referential and self-reinforcing, making ours the only authentic political act</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Smith ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Phil, a UK based artist, performer and teacher, specialising in performance related to walking. At present he is engaged in research at the University of Plymouth (UK) on the effectiveness of performance and performative interventions in touristic and heritage spaces."Tourists/Terrorists – Useful Ambiguities in a Search for Models", Rhizome magazine, NKN)</span>

[1] A discussion about models of 'ideal', resistant, small group organisation is generally pre-empted by an argument about intentions. What is the group for?
[2] __The principle seems obvious – there must be an 'end' of some kind that drives and determines the means, however that relation works itself out.__
[3] **__Yet, so often, the histories of group organisation, whether philanthropic, political or recreational, are of empirical specificities turning out to be far more rich and potent than mere means__**; that it is in their details that the larger structures of what they become first emerge: __the Provisional IRA become custodians of a peace agreement, the crusading Knights Hospitaller of St John metamorphose into first-aiders at sports events__.
[4] **__This potential for convenient, utilitarian tactics to turn suddenly (and often stay turned) towards a qualitatively new strategic end is sometimes spotted early on and snuffed out. In the 1920s a rag-tag, barely coherent orrery of proletarian UK-based Marxist philosophers, already beginning to establish their own eccentric, vernacular tradition__**, was halted by their recruitment to the Communist Party of Great Britain. In the Second World War, the first manifestation of a UK 'Home Guard' (an official civilian defence force raised to fight Nazi invasion), was dismantled; initially trained by Spanish anarchist miners, refugees from Franco, it was developing an insurgent, revolutionary structure among its base of early members.
[5] **__So, rather than establish an 'end', and then seek a model for the group structure most likely to achieve it, I propose to present here the details of various existing and historic small group practices with resistant, covert or disruptive qualities, flagging up different fragments, slivers, signatures, eccentricities and tics, with the intention of whirling these around the meandering practice of the International Lettriste/situationist dérive (or drift), or at least around an 'ideal' version of the practices of contemporary dériviste groups, some modelled precisely and others imprecisely on the dérive__**. (My account of some of these is here.)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[6] The context for this speculative modelling is an ongoing series of experiments with various forms of exploratory and 'disrupted' walking: these began with drifts, but have moved on to subversions of the guided tour, the making and placing of détourned signage, collective pilgrimages interweaving multiple-practices and improvisations and the distributions of guides, handbooks, maps and toolkits as provocations for others to make their own resistant walking.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7] While I have attempted elsewhere - online and in Mythogeography (2010, Axminster, UK: Triarchy Press) – to document these experiments and those conducted by others and to tentatively build a critical scaffold around them, it is the historical dérive that remains the dominant example of the 'ideal' collective walk (despite other models from urban exploration, deep mapping, live art and pedestrian activism). By attaching a plethora of variegated practices and other models of small group intervention to this 'ideal' I hope, here, to shift the dérive a little from the centre of the orrery of these multiplicitous practices; to set in motion other bodies of attraction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[8] Given the benefit to these small group practices of the deferral of ends – including the deferral of even discussing ends for as long as possible - a key dynamic of such 'drifting groups without destinations' can be understood through a creative system identified (in stark corporeal terms well suited to an immersed walking group) by the artist Matthew Barney. In this system 'Situation' (no relation) is the raw energy and drive of undirected intentionality, 'Condition' is the direction and digestion of this energy, and 'Production' is its oral/anal expression in the form of excretions of art, political actions, etc. Barney's creative method is to disrupt this sequence, deferring 'Production' again and again and repeatedly folding 'Condition' back into 'Situation', whirling the latter's energy again and again in a violent short circuiting through the funnel of 'Condition' until the organic structure of the process cannot sustain itself as its accelerates, at which</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[9] Similarly, a drifting group (with neither end nor destination) bounces back and forth between different theoretical positions in the course of a single drift – between (a more or less understood) Debord, Bachelard and Baudrillard, for example – drawing, opportunistically, from different theories as they are required; contesting the dominance of visuality one moment, drawing pseudo-evolutionary allusions or tracing a string of voids the next. Ideally (because, for the sake of this argument, they are an 'ideal'), such a group would extend their versatile inconsistency until it becomes an unsustainable contradiction; when unexpected, unplannable, inconvenient praxes are hurled off.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[10] What Barney's model seeks to do is pre-empt reproduction, to disrupt the tendency of 'creative' or disruptive action to follow a course of least resistance to a product, to find its way too quickly, efficiently and conveniently to an outcome (when production takes on the quality of an organism's excretion).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[11] Among drifting groups certain productive scenarios recur, such as the play of childhood, attraction to ruins and the morbid, the seeking out of the 'hidden', the identification of occulted and occult iconographies or ironical and accidental signage, and trespass. While these may constitute the parts of a resistant walk, because they are familiar products of many drifts they can also pre-empt its destinationless engagement by a premature gratification (a powerful tool of the Spectacle) through the manifestation of what might already have been expected (or at least predicted). The result can be an immersion in a milieu (occult, anecdotal, historiographical); momentum is lost and a subtle bounding of space is imposed or adopted.</span>
[12] However, **__by deferring the gratification (for example, by disrupting an action to maintain it in simultaneous development with others) territorialisation can be suspended to allow more and more layering of activities, one upon another__**: play upon vandalism upon mapping upon sculpting trash upon booby-trapping upon poetry upon dance… **__until the group itself cannot cope with the multiplicity of its own processes and, in that crisis, can retreat to a milieu or crash on to something or somewhere that is unexpected, unplanned and (this is the key political and reproducible aspect) uncontainable__**.
[13] **__This is not unlike the strategy of communes that is proposed by The Invisible Committee as a part of social insurrection:__**
**__it's not about possessing territory. Rather it's a matter of increasing the density of the communes, of circulation, and of solidarities to the point that the territory becomes unreadable, opaque to all authority… Every practice brings a territory into existence – a dealing territory, or a hunting territory; a territory of child's play, of lovers… or flaneurs. The rule is simple: the more territories there are superimposed on a given zone, the more circulation there is between them, the harder it will be for power to get a handle on them__**… (The Invisible Committee, 2009:108)

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Status quo methodology for affecting the state is a politics of despair in which protesters obtain permits before picketing. Protesters stifle their own potential by settling for symbolic gestures like writing to congress and voting in elections. Instead of falling into the trap of impotent dissent, we should engage in direct tactics of action. It is not enough to tell the state what to do or should do—we need act.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Churchill ‘7</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ward, former professor for University of Colorado at Boulder, “Pacifism as Pathology: reflections of the role of armed struggle in North America”, pgs. 48-62, NKN)</span>




__Such a situation must abort whatever limited utility pacifist tactics might have, absent other and concurrent forms of struggle, as a socially transformative method__. Yet the history of the American Left over the past decade shows too clearly that the more diluted the substance embodied in “pacifist practice,” the louder the insistence of its subscribers that nonviolence is the only mode of action “appropriate and acceptable within the context of North America,” and the greater the effort to ostracize, or even stifle divergent types of actions.[56] **__Such strategic hegemony exerted by proponents of this truncated range of tactical options has done much to foreclose on what ever revolutionary potential may be said to exist in modern America__**. Is such an assessment too harsh? __One need only attend a mass demonstration (ostensibly directed against the policies of the state) in any U.S. city to discover the answer. One will find hundreds, sometimes thousands, assembled in orderly fashion, listening to selected speak__-/18\ __ers calling for an end to this or that aspect of lethal state activity, carrying signs “demanding” the same thing, welcoming singers who enunciate lyrically on the worthiness of the demonstrators’ agenda as well as the plight of the various victims they are there to “defend,” and - typically - the whole thing is quietly disbanded with exhortations to the assembled to “keep working” on the matter and to please sign a petition and/or write letters to congresspeople requesting that they alter or abandon offending undertakings__. **__Throughout the whole charade it will be noticed that the state is represented by a uniformed police presence keeping a discreet distance and not interfering with the activities. And why should they? The organizers of the demonstration will have gone through “proper channels” to obtain permits required by the state and instructions as to where they will be allowed to assemble, how long they will be allowed to stay and, should a march be involved in the demonstration, along which routes they will be allowed to walk. Surrounding the larger mass of demonstrators can be seen others — an elite. Adorned with green (or white, or powder blue) armbands, their function is to ensure that demonstrators remain “responsible,” not deviating from the state-armbandedsanctioned plan of protest__**. **__Individuals or small groups who attempt to spin off from the main body, entering areas to which the state has denied access (or some other unapproved activity) are headed off by these arm-banded “marshals” who argue — pointing to the nearby police - that “troublemaking” will only “exacerbate an already tense situation” and “provoke violence,” thereby “alienating those we are attempting to reach__**.”[57] In some ways, the voice of the “good Jews” can be heard to echo plainly over the years. At this juncture, the confluence of interests between the state and the mass nonviolent movement could not be clearer. **__The role of the police, whose function is to support state policy by minimizing disruption of its procedures, should be in natural conflict with that of a movement purporting to challenge these same policies and, indeed, to transform the state itself__**.[58] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, with apparent perverseness, the police find themselves serving as mere backups (or props) to self-policing (now euphemistically termed “peace-keeping” rather than the more accurate “marshaling”) efforts of the alleged opposition’s own membership. Both sides of the “contestation” concur that the smooth functioning of state processes must not be physically disturbed, at least not in any significant way.[59] All of this is within the letter and spirit of cooptive forms of sophisticated self-preservation appearing as an integral aspect of the later phases of bourgeois democracy.[60] It dovetails well with more shopworn methods such as the electoral process and has been used by the state as an innovative means of conducting public opinion polls, which better hide rather than eliminate controversial policies.[61] Even the movement’s own sloganeering tends to bear this out from time to time, as when Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) coined the catch-phrase of its alternative to the polling place: “Vote with your feet, vote in the street.”[62] Of course,</span> a**__ny movement seeking to project a credible self-image__** **__as something other than just one more variation of accommodation to state power must ultimately establish its “militant” oppositional credentials through the media in a manner more compelling than rhetorical speechifying and the holding of impolite placards__** (“Fuck the War” was always a good one) at rallies.[63] Here, **__the time-honored pacifist notion of “civil disobedience” is given a new twist by the adherents of nonviolence in America.__** Rather than pursuing Gandhi’s (or, to a much lesser extent, King’s) method of using passive bodies to literally clog the functioning of the state apparatus — regardless of the cost to those doing the clogging — __the American nonviolent movement has increasingly opted for “symbolic actions__.”[64] The centerpiece of such activity usually involves an arrest, either of a token figurehead of the movement (or a small, selected group of them) or a mass arrest of some sort. In the latter event, “arrest training” is generally provided - and lately has become “required” by movement organizers - by the same marshals who will later ensure that crowd control police units will be left with little or nothing to do. This is to en-/20\ sure that “no one gets hurt” in the process of being arrested, and that the police are not inconvenienced by disorganized arrest procedures. [65] __The event which activates the arrests is typically preplanned, well publicized in advance, and, more often than not, literally coordinated with the police__ — <span style="font-size: 8pt;">often including estimates by organizers concerning how many arrestees will likely be involved. Generally speaking, such “extreme statements” will be scheduled to coincide with larger-scale peaceful demonstrations so that a considerable audience of “committed” bystanders (and, hopefully, NBC/CBS/ABC/CNN) will be on hand to applaud the bravery and sacrifice of those arrested; most of the bystanders will, of course, have considered reasons why they themselves are unprepared to “go so far” as to be arrested.[66] The specific sort of action designed to precipitate the arrests themselves usually involves one of the following: (a) sitting down in a restricted area and refusing to leave when ordered; (b) stepping across an imaginary line drawn on the ground by a police representative; (c) refusing to disperse at the appointed time; or (d) chaining or padlocking the doors to a public building. When things really get heavy, those seeking to be arrested may pour blood (real or ersatz) on something of “symbolic value.”[67] As a rule, those arrested are cooperative in the extreme, meekly allowing police to lead them to waiting vans or buses for transportation to whatever station house or temporary facility has been designated as the processing point. In especially “militant” actions, arrestees go limp, undoubtedly severely taxing the states repressive resources by forcing the police to carry them bodily to the vans or buses (monitored all the while by volunteer attorneys who are there to ensure that such “police brutality” as pushing, shoving, or dropping an arrestee does not occur). In either event, the arrestees sit quietly in their assigned vehicles - or sing “We Shall Overcome” and other favorites — as they are driven away for booking. The typical charges levied will be trespassing, creating a public disturbance, or being a public nuisance. In </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the heavy instances, the charge may be escalated to malicious mischief or even destruction of public property. Either way, other than in exceptional circumstances, everyone will be assigned an arraignment date and released on personal recognizance or a small cash bond, home in time for dinner (and to review their exploits on the six o’clock news).[68] In the unlikely event that charges are not dismissed prior to arraignment (the state having responded to symbolic actions by engaging largely in symbolic selective prosecutions), the arrestee will appear on the appointed date in a room resembling a traffic court where s/he will be allowed to plead guilty, pay a minimal fine, and go home. Repeat offenders may be “sentenced” to pay a somewhat larger fine (which, of course, goes into state accounts underwriting the very policies the arrestees ostensibly oppose) or even to perform a specific number of “public service hours” (promoting police/community relations, for example).[69] It is almost unheard of for arrestees to be sentenced to jail time for the simple reason that most jails are already overflowing with less principled individuals, most of them rather unpacifist in nature, and many of whom have caused the state a considerably greater degree of displeasure than the nonviolent movement, which claims to seek its radical alteration.[70] For those arrestees who opt to plead not-guilty to the charges they themselves literally arranged to incur, a trial date will be set. They will thereby accrue another symbolic advantage by exercising their right to explain why they did whatever they did before a judge and jury. They may then loftily contend that it is the state, rather than themselves, that is really criminal. Their rights satisfied, they will then generally be sentenced to exactly the same penalty which would have been levied had they pleaded guilty at their arraignment (plus court costs), and go home. A few will be sentenced to a day or two in jail as an incentive not to waste court time with such pettiness in the future. A few less will refuse to pay whatever fine is imposed, and receive as much as thirty days in jail (usually on work release) as an alternative; a number /22\ of these have opted to pen “prison letters” during the period of their brief confinement, underscoring the sense of symbolic (rather than literal) self-sacrifice which is sought. The trivial nature of this level of activity does not come fully into focus until it is juxtaposed to the sorts of state activity which the nonviolent movement claims to be “working on.” </span>__A brief sampling of prominent issues addressed by the American opposition since 1965 will suffice for purposes of illustration: the U.S. escalation of the ground war in Southeast Asia to a level where more than a million lives were lost, the saturation bombing of Vietnam (another one to two million killed), the expansion of the Vietnam war into all of Indochina (costing perhaps another two to three million lives when the intentional destruction of Cambodia’s farmland and resultant mass starvation are considered), U.S. sponsorship of the Pinochet coup in Chile (at least another 10,000 dead), U.S. underwriting of the Salvadoran oligarchy (50,000 lives at a minimum), U.S. support of the Guatemalan junta (perhaps 200,000 killed since 1954), and efforts to destabilize the Sandinista government in Nicaragua (at least 20,000 dead).[72] A far broader sample of comparably lethal activities has gone unopposed altogether__.[73] **__While the human costs of continuing American business as usual have registered well into the seven-digit range (and possibly higher), the nonviolent “opposition” in the United States has not only restricted its tactics almost exclusively to the symbolic arena denoted above, but has actively endeavored to prevent others from going further__**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The methods employed to this end have generally been restricted to the deliberate stigmatizing, isolation, and minimization of other potentials - as a means of neutralizing, or at least containing them — although at times it seems to have crossed over into collaboration with state efforts to bring about their outright liquidation.[74] **__The usual approach has been a consistent a priori dismissal of any one person or group attempting to move beyond the level of symbolic action as “abandoning the original spirit [of North American oppositional politics] and taking the counterproductive path of small-scale violence now and organizing for serious armed struggle later__**.”[75] This is persistently coupled with attempts to diminish the importance of actions aimed at concrete rather than symbolic effects, epitomized in the question framed by Sam Brown, a primary organizer of the November 1969 Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam (when perhaps 5,000 broke free of a carefully orchestrated schedule of passive activities): “What’s more important, that a bunch of scruffy people charged the Justice Department, or that [500,000 people] were in the same place at one time to sing?”[76] Not only was such “violence” as destroying property and scuffling with police proscribed in the view of the Moratorium organizers, but also any tendency to utilize the incredible mass of assembled humanity in any way which might tangibly interfere with the smooth physical functioning of the governing apparatus in the nation’s capital (e.g., nonviolent civil disobedience on the order of, say, systematic traffic blockages and huge sit-ins).[77] Unsurprisingly, this same mentality manifested itself even more clearly a year and a half later with the open boycott by pacifism’s “responsible leadership” (and most of their committed followers) of the Indochina Peace Campaign’s planned “May Day Demonstration” in Washington. Despite the fact that in some ways the war had escalated (e.g., increasingly heavy bombing) since the largest symbolic protest in American history — the Moratorium fielded approximately one million passive demonstrators, nationwide - it was still held that May Day organizer Rennie Davis’ intent to “show the government that it will no longer be able to control its own society unless it ends the war NOW!” was “going too far.” It was opined that although the May Day plan did not itself call for violent acts, its disruption of business as usual was likely to “provoke a violent response from officials.”[78] Even more predictably, advocates of nonviolence felt compelled to counter such emergent trends as the SDS Revolutionary Youth Movement, Youth Against War and Fascism, and Weatherman.[79] Calling /24\ for nonattendance at the demonstrations of “irresponsible” organizations attempting to build a “fighting movement among white radicals,” and wittily coining derogatory phrases to describe them, the oppositional mainstream did its utmost to thwart possible positive developments coming from such unpacifist quarters. **__In the end, the stigmatized organizations themselves institutionalized this imposed isolation, their frustration with attempting to break the inertia of symbolic opposition to the status quo converted into a “politics of despair” relying solely on violent actions undertaken by a network of tiny underground cells__**.[80] The real anathema to the nonviolent mass, however, turned out not to be white splinter groups such as Weatherman. Rather, it came from a militant black nationalism embodied in the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense. After nearly a decade of proclaiming its “absolute solidarity” with the liberatory efforts of American blacks, pacifism found itself confronted during the late ‘60s with the appearance of a cohesive organization that consciously linked the oppression of the black community to the exploitation of people the world over, and programmatically asserted the same right to armed self-defense acknowledged as the due of liberation movements abroad.[81] As the Panthers evidenced signs of making significant headway, organizing first in their home community of Oakland and then nationally, the state perceived something more threatening than yet another series of candlelight vigils. It reacted accordingly, targeting the Panthers for physical elimination. When Party cadres responded (as promised) by meeting the violence of repression with armed resistance, the bulk of their “principled” white support evaporated. This horrifying retreat rapidly isolated the Party from any possible mediating or buffering from the full force of state terror and left its members nakedly exposed to “surgical termination” by special police units.[82] To cover this default on true pacifist principles - which call upon adherents not to run for safety but, in the manner of Witness for Peace, to interpose their bodies as a means of alleviating violence - it became fashionable to observe that the Panthers were “as bad as the cops” in that they had resorted to arms (a view which should give pause when one recalls the twelfth Sonderkommando); they had “brought this on themselves” when they “provoked violence” by refusing the state an uncontested right to maintain the lethal business as usual it had visited upon black America since the inception of the Republic.[83] In deciphering the meaning of this pattern of response to groups such as the Panthers, Weatherman, and others who have attempted to go beyond a more symbolic protest of, say, genocide, it is important to look behind the clichés customarily used to explain the American pacifist posture (however revealing these may be in themselves). More to the point than concerns that the groups such as the Panthers “bring this [violent repression] on themselves” is the sentiment voiced by Irv Kurki, a prominent Illinois anti-draft organizer during the winter of 1969-70: “This idea of armed struggle or armed self-defense or whatever you want to call it... practiced by the Black Panther Party, the Weathermen and a few other groups is a very bad scene, a really dangerous thing for all of us. This isn’t Algeria or Vietnam, it’s the United States... these tactics are not only counterproductive in that they alienate people who are otherwise very sympathetic to us... and lead to the sort of thing which just happened in Chicago... but they run the very real risk of bringing the same sort of violent repression down on all of us (emphasis added).”[84] Precisely. __The preoccupation with avoiding actions which might “provoke violence” is thus not based on a sincere belief that violence will, or even can, truly be avoided.__ Pacifists, no less than their unpacifist counterparts, are quite aware that</span> **__violence already exists as an integral component in the execution of state policies and requires no provocation; this is a formative basis of their doctrine__**. What is at issue then cannot be a valid attempt to stave off or even minimize violence per se. Instead, **__it can only be a conscious effort not to refocus state violence in such a way that it would directly impact American pacifists__** /26\ **__themselves__**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is true even when it can be shown that the tactics which could trigger such a refocusing might in themselves alleviate a real measure of the much more massive state-inflicted violence occurring elsewhere; **__better that another 100,000 Indochinese peasants perish under a hail of cluster bombs and napalm than America’s principled progressives suffer real physical pain while rendering their government’s actions impracticable.__**[85] Such conscientious avoidance of personal sacrifice (i.e., dodging the experience of being on the receiving end of violence, not the inflicting of it) has nothing to do with the lofty ideals and integrity by which American pacifists claim to inform their practice. But it does explain the real nature of such curious phenomena as movement marshals, steadfast refusals to attempt to bring the seat of government to a standstill even when a million people are on hand to accomplish the task, and the consistently convoluted victim-blaming engaged in with regard to domestic groups such as the Black Panther Party.[86]</span> **__Massive and unremitting violence in the colonies is appalling to right-thinking people but ultimately acceptable when compared with the unthinkable alternative that any degree of real violence might be redirected against “mother country radicals.”__**

=Neg Strats= 
==OVI== 
Rd. 2 -- Alpharetta JR (SPS) [2-0]
Solidarity K (2NR)

Rd. 3 -- Centennial JK (Alien Performance) [3-0]
Citations PIC (2NR)
Solidarity K
Foucault K
Case:
-Zizek Ideology
-Zupancic/Doubling (2NR)
-Debate not for social change
-race metaphors/binaries bad
-ID PTX fails/bad

Rd. 6 -- New Trier KH (SMD)