[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**Ship of Fools AC (State)**== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We open with Jim Morrison</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morrison, Jim. “The Poetry of Jim Morrison.” Poetry Pages. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2012. <http://www.huddersfield1.co.uk/‌poetry/‌morrisonpoetry.htm>.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Men who go out on ships…innocence in an instant</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The schizo-phrenic mindset is one which opens ontology to the actuality of desire and life. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari 1 (Anti-Oedipus. Trans. Robert Hurley, Mark Seem, and Helen R Lane. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1983. Print. Capitalism and Schizophrenia One. pg.15)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A schizophrenic out for a walk … no longer have any meaning whatsoever.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The schizo- is the basis for reality as each epistemological, ontological or ethical construct is a matter of production and is thus enveloped within this analysis of the function between desire and ontology. This schizo- model exposes the impossibility of the given-ness of traditional categories and operations of thought and thus expose the tacit domination within each of our daily lives as mere a matter of production and power.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari 2 (Ibid, 26-28) write,</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This does not mean that …" its own current interrupted.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The way of Statist thought is violently opposed to this nomadic form. This maintains control of the ontological domination of every aspect of life. To think otherwise is to provide counter-ontology to break down this form of domination.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari 3 (A Thousand Plateaus. Trans. Brian Massumi. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1987. Print. Capitalism and Schizophrenia Two. Pg.377)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But noology is confronted by…and artist launch their shot."</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To create a counter-Statist experiment is to break down the walls blocking the will to power. To experiment is to explore, to find the limits of legitimate thought and move past them in a creative endeavor indicated by becoming. Our experiments transform us, and provide a counter-thought embodying schizophrenic ontology, contrary to a Statist ontology which opposes true experimentation. This is done through the analysis of schizophrenic ontology as an interconnection of rhizomes </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari 4 (Ibid 12-13)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The rhizome is altogether different…the force of his or her desire.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B is the Plan: The entire populace of the United States should be launched into space. We reserve the right to clarify. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This idea takes the form of experimentation. We set the revolutionary machine of desire in motion by imagining a nomadic existence. We, in this imagining, engage in a becoming-nomadic. This opens us to a schizophrenic mode of thought which exposes the way society functions as a disjunctive structure of desire constantly composed into various forms and situations. These ships of fools allow us to engage in this becoming-seaborn shared amongst many great nomads. From the Vikings on the Ocean to the sailors of the desert, the Mongols, those who threaten and deconstruct the Statist Western thought the best are those who sail on different seas. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michel Foucault (//Histoire de la folie à l’âge classique//. N.p.: Pantheon Books, 1964. Print. pg.10) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Thus we better understand the…the dreams of European man.”</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Impacts: This is our experiment. We are setting up this round in a way in which the schizophrenic is realized. What we do is real. It is right here, right now. We are creating something here which opens up an infinity of epistemological, ethical, ontological and aesthetic possibilities. This is crucial to ever being able to consider this issue, and indeed opens up the route for genuine ethical reflection and genuine engagement of policy originating from a constant movement. We have opened up the Sea; to attempt to build an island again is hopeless.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, this opens the ethical horizons beyond the aporiae engender by modern ethical discourse between the construction of universal laws of the good and the inherent desire underlying them.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael Anker (The Ethics of Uncertainty: Aporetic Openings. New York: Atropos Press, 2009. Print. pg.102) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“So from where does one pull … the strength that no certainty can match.”</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, this opens up the possibilities for the understanding of the workings of our society and thus is a gateway issue for policy-making. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">D and G 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Anti-Oedipus (1983) pg.171), write, </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The idea that primitive societies have…the American way.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, what we do here matters. This advocacy is a micro-political experiment that opens horizons within this situation. This is a substantive political act that transforms this round not into an idealistic sale, but a locus of political significance.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari (A Thousand Plateaus pg.377) writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The task of the historian is to designate …that makes it or breaks it.</span>__**

If anyone needs copies of A Thousand Plateaus or Anti-Oedipus, I will provide full-text searchable PDF copies upon request at ktrevet@gmail.com

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]