[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]

=Development is commercial= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 

Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities
Hsu and Cox, 9 - Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)

Particularly, NASA needs reforms on [...] invested in solely by taxpayer contributions.

==1NC - St. Marks==
Exploration is space science directed at new frontiers, and development is the creation of commercial market activities
Hsu and Cox, 9 - Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)
 
In our view, even with  [...] invested in solely by taxpayer contributions.
 

‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development 
Bockstiegel 95 –Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)
 
 
The official title of the Outer  [...] considered as ‘use’ of space.


=Development is staffed= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 

Space development is limited to staffed commercial projects; everything else is space technology which is distinct
Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer [...] staffed] commercial projects in space.`

=Exploration excludes remote sensing= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 

Space exploration excludes remote sensing
Curtis et al, 9 – Review Leader for the UK Space Exploration Review, British National Space Center (Jeremy “UK Space Exploration Review”, http://www.lpi.usra.edu/lunar/strategies/UKSpaceExporationReview2009.pdf)

2.4 What is space [...] the Moon or Near Earth Objects.

=Increase=
==1NC - Iowa Caucus==
Development refers to NASA or DOD development programs – the aff needs to increase one of them
GAO 10 – US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf)
With regard to development, the  [...] Major outputs of DOD development are:

Increase means to become larger or greater in quantity
Encarta Online Dictionary. 2006. ("Increase." <http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741>.)

in·crease [ in kr [...] plural in·creas·es)


=Framework= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 

The affirmative must defend a world where the United States federal government substantially increases space development or space exploration above the mesosphere. The sole purpose of the ballot is to answer the resolutional question: Is the outcome of the enactment of a topical plan better than the status quo or a competitive policy option?

This is most predictable –

“Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum
Army Officer School, 04 (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)

The colon introduces the following: [...] That this council petition the mayor.


And, “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means
Ericson, 03 (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy: Urging [...] the future action that you propose.


The resolution is MOST fair and equitable starting point
Galloway 2007 (Ryan Galloway, Samford Debate Coach, Professor of Communication Studies at Samford, Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Vol. 28, 2007, LEQ)

First, teams have equal access [...] of a demand to be heard.


Our framework forces debates on both sides of an issue which stimulates critical thinking and helps students understand the complexities of policy dilemmas – this is critical to check dogmatism
Keller, et. al, 01 – Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago
(Thomas E., James K., and Tracly K., Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago, professor of Social Work, and doctoral student School of Social Work, “Student debates in policy courses: promoting policy practice skills and knowledge through active learning,” Journal of Social Work Education, Spr/Summer 2001, EBSCOhost)

SOCIAL WORKERS HAVE a professional responsibility [...] and beliefs pertaining to the issue.


Focusing on the details and inner-workings of government policy-making is productive – critical approaches can’t resolve real world problems like poverty, racism and war
McClean, 01 – Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New York
(David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm, JMP)

Yet for some reason, at [...] so-called "managerial class."


Finally, our framework is also socially productive – forcing students to assert policy solutions has tremendous research and education benefits and encourages them to become advocates for change rather than mere spectators
Joyner , 99 – Professor of International Law in the Government Department at Georgetown University
(Christopher C., Spring, 199, 5 ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377)

Use of the debate can be [...] political critique, and legal defense.


Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change
BRANHAM 1995 (Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)

In the years following his release [...] in the light generated by confrontation.


Space should be debated in a policy framework—this allows us to predict consequences and avoid the worst outcomes
HUNTLEY et al 2010 (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)

These prospects raise many issues. [...] , which are easier to identify.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]