[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Plan text: ALL CIRCUSES AND MENAGERIES MUST ABOLISH THE PRACTICE OF USING ANIMLAS IN ACTS AND PERFORMANCE. I reserve the right to clarify.
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Gender disparity AC:</span>== 
V- Morality
The aff defends deadly force in response to violence against women. Ignoring the role of gender in domestic violence reinforces patriarchy.
Nancy Berns, Degendering the Problem and Gendering the Blame: Political Discourse on Women and Violence, Gender and Society, Vol. 15, No. 2 (Apr., 2001), pp. 262-281.
Feminist constructions of … men's everyday violence.
Morality demands critical discourse.
1- Criticism lets us understand our beliefs
2- We lose the meaning of ideas without criticism
John Stuart Mill, “On Liberty,” (Google Books) pg. 28, 1869
The fact however, …essence being lost. 
VC – minimizing patriarchy
1- Women have a unique perspective on society.
Elizabeth Anderson “Feminist Epistemology and Philosophy of Science”. SEP.
Feminist epistemology is …H. Rose 1987).
2- A feminist epistemology includes multiple unique ideas.
Pamela Turner [Doctoral Student at University of Georgia), The Mathematics Educator Vol. 6 No. 1 (2002), 4-5
A second theory …ideas and truths
1C – violence is permissible in this context
1- Hearing of the use of deadly force empowers women to speak out against patriarchy.
Renee Heberle . Deconstructive Strategies and the Movement against Sexual Violence. Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 63-76
Further when women … real sexual power.
2- The LGBT community is uniquely impacted by patriarchy.
Krisana M. Hodges [Tulane School of Law]. Trouble in Paradise: Barriers to Addressing Domestic Violence in Lesbian Relationships. Law & Sexuality: A Review of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Legal Issues. Copyright (c) 2000 Law & Sexuality. 9 Law & Sex. 311.
The lesbian abuser … her sexual orientation.
2- Alternatives fail to solve.
Renee Heberle . Deconstructive Strategies and the Movement against Sexual Violence.. Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 63-76
Turning to these … of social life.

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Not all women are white K:</span>== 

A: Oppression is bad. Vote them down if I prove their discourse is oppressive. Two reasons:
Alfred C. Snider, Edwin Lawrence Assistant Professor of Forensics - University of Vermont, ‘04
(<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://debate.uvm.edu/ReplyFrank.doc]]</span>)

Deterrence: The challenges to …you the win. ;
Norm setting: Ethics concerns codes … applicable ethical standards.
B: The monolithic discourse of the AC in referring to domestic violence trivializes their experiences as victims of abuse. Natalie J. Sokoloff and Ida Dupont Domestic Violence at the Intersections of Race, Class, and Gender: Challenges and Contributions to Understanding Violence Against Marginalized Women in Diverse Communities Violence Against Women January 2005 11: 38-64, doi:10.1177/1077801204271476
The traditional feminist …the antiviolence movement.

C.: reframing domestic violence is the internal link to international solvency. Jennifer Nixon and Cathy Humphreys -- 2010 Marshalling the Evidence: Using Intersectionality in the Domestic Violence Frame Soc Pol (2010) 17(2): 137-158 first published online March 18, doi:10.1093/sp/jxq003
In order to … and Sikkink 1998).
Weighing: magnitude, timeframe

D. Alternative: reject the AC’s monolithic understanding of domestic abuse and endorse the intersectional critique as a way to legitimize the experience of marginalized women. This solves for AC essentialism. Sokoloff and Dupont 2
The intersectional approach … Sun-Hee Park, 1997).

Vote now to stop the inculcation of oppression within the educational system. 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]