[[toc]]
=Notes= 
For cites email
aff -- [[mailto:danielh313@gmail.com|danielh313@gmail.com]]
neg -- [[mailto:sukhisensation@gmail.com|sukhisensation@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Bronx -- DSCOVR== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solar activity will increase in 2013, new predictive satellite won’t be funded now.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walsh 9/27/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bryan, Covers Environmental issues for TIME magazine, A Solar Storm Strikes Earth—and Provides a Warning for the Future, TIME Magazine Ecocentric blog, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2011/09/27/a-solar-storm-strikes-earth%E2%80%94and-provides-a-warning-for-the-future/</span>
But maybe I should start keeping tabs on what's going on above us. <span style="text-decoration: none;">On September 24 the sun unleashed a strong solar storm—an outburst of energy known as a coronal mass ejection that sent a massive cloud of plasma and magnetic energy hurting through space and toward the Earth</span> at 5 million mph. The edges of that energy struck the planet on September 26, producing a medium-size solar storm—a G3 on the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC) five-point scale.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">If solar storms are like space hurricanes—close enough—the planet received the equivalent of a glancing blow, enough to cause some possible minor problems with satellite communications and GPS, but nothing most of us would have noticed</span>. But we were lucky. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Serious space weather—the catch-all term for sun's unusual activity—has the potential to ruin the electrical grid, disrupt air travel, knock out satellites for years and generally send our high-tech society back to the 18th century</span>. "There's a belief that as we build a society that depends more on technology we become more vulnerable to space weather," says Doug Biesecker, a physicist with the SWPC.
First a little space weather primer. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Solar activity works on an 11 year-cycle, with solar flares and eruptions occurring hundreds of times throughout the cycle. Most such solar flares are harmless, but occasionally the sun will experience a coronal mass ejection</span> of the sort seen on September 24. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Those events send highly magnetized atomic particles (plasma) towards the Earth, and are often visible from high latitudes in the form of spectacular auroras. If that plasma collides with the Earth, it can trigger geomagnetic storms</span>—spikes in electrical currents in the atmosphere and on the ground created by the interaction between the Earth's magnetic field and the plasma. The effects tend to be amplified near the poles, where the Earth's magnetic field is weakest.
The strongest solar storm in recorded history occurred in 1859, and it's called the Carrington Event, named after the British astronomer David Carrington, who witnessed the massive solar flare. Telegraph transmitters heated up—the wire caught the wave of solar energy—and some even burst into flames. But that was 1859, before the electrical grid, before GPS and cell phones—before the development of all the technology that we now need that is vulnerable to magnetic energy. If a similarly strong solar storm were to hit the planet today, the results would be far different—and far more catastrophic. A 2008 National Academy of Sciences study (NAS) projected that an Carrington-level solar storm could knock out electricity to parts of the northeastern and northwestern U.S. for months or even years.
Brian Verstag, in a recent Washington Post story on the threat of space weather, sketches out the rest of the grim scenario:
Report co-author John Kappenmann estimated that about 135 million Americans would be forced to revert to a pre-electric lifestyle or relocate. Water systems would fail. Food would spoil. Thousands could die. The financial cost: Up to $2 trillion, one-seventh the annual U.S. gross domestic product.
Scary stuff. Utilities have argued that the NAS study overstates the threat from space weather, but <span style="text-decoration: none;">much smaller solar flares have</span> still <span style="text-decoration: none;">caused problems with the grid in recent years. The good news is that we do have a way to predict space weather before it hits</span>. The SWPC is a 24/7 operation that monitors the sun for any abnormalities, looking for tipoffs like a sudden surge in solar X-rays. The SWPC also makes use of coronagraphic equipment included aboard NASA's Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) satellite which enables scientists to monitor what is going on inside the sun's corona, the plasma atmosphere around the sun. When a coronal mass ejection event occurs, the SWPC can see it as it happens. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">We want to make sure there's nothing out there that's going to surprise</span> us," says Beisecker. "It's just like seeing a hurricane beginning to from off the coast of Africa and being able to predict it."
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the case of the September 24 solar storm, SWPC was able to warn airlines and utilities before the storm reached the Earth</span>. The SWPC posted a YouTube video modelling the solar storm: <EMBEDDED YOUTUBE VIDEO OMITTED IN CARD>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">It's not a perfect system—experts compare it to weather forecasting in the 1950s—but it keeps us from flying blind through space. The only problem is that we may be losing our eyes—the ACE satellite is nearly 15 years old and gradually failing. NOAA has requested a replacement for ACE in the 2011 budget, but that's been stalled</span> thanks to Congressional deadlock. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Getting a replacement for ACE is very important</span>," says Beisecker—<span style="text-decoration: none;">because if that satellite goes, our space weather prediction system will be crippled. We got off light with the solar storm this time, but our luck will run out eventually—and possibly quite soon, because the current solar cycle is set to peak over the next couple of years</span>. A "Space Katrina" could be inevitable—at the very least we should be able to see it coming.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its’ exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere by launching the Deep Space Climate Observatory. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Contention 2: Solar Storms</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR is not funded now and is key to prediction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lautenbacher 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html</span>
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake and global warming, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there lurks another potentially devastating challenge of a different sort to which neither the public nor policy makers have devoted sufficient attention. The culprit is "space weather</span>." The star that lights our day and gives us life, the Sun, also generates periodic disturbances -- solar storms and flares -- that give rise to effects that rain upon the Earth. While this <span style="text-decoration: none;">space weather</span> has minimal impact on humans in the normal course of events, it <span style="text-decoration: none;">can have a devastating impact on the electric power generating systems as well as the electronic and computer infrastructure that keeps modern society going.</span> In the near future, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the problem is likely to grow. Scientists predict more severe space weather and solar storms on the horizon due to the coming rise in solar activity in its eleven-year cycle -- with potentially catastrophic effects in 2011 and beyond. </span>According to a recent report by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a single severe storm could cause $1 to $2 trillion in damages to the U.S.'s high-tech infrastructure and require four to ten years for complete recovery</span>. Fortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States has taken measures to monitor the risk and provide timely warning to reduce the consequences.</span> Unfortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">public officials may jeopardize these measures unless they overcome penny-wise and pound-foolish proposed budget cuts</span>. Few of us realize that space weather already has negatively impacted our lives. A few years ago in May 1998 solar activity knocked out for a day all cell phones in the U.S. affecting everything from credit card transactions to telemedicine. In 1989, the Hydro-Quebec power grid suffered a nine hour loss of generation leaving millions in the dark following a large geomagnetic storm that was caused by solar eruptions and space weather. For many years airlines have modified Polar routes to reduce the potentially damaging radiation effects on humans because of the increased penetration of high energy particles in these regions and because of the potential for communication blackouts. (Transpolar flights are increasing: In 2000 there were 368 and in 2008 more than 7,999.) In its 2008 evaluation of potential cascading impacts of space weather events the National Academy of Sciences concluded that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the disruption of electric power could lead to disruptions in transportation, communication, banking, finance systems, government services, potable water (due to pump failure), loss of perishable foods and medicines (due to lack of refrigeration)</span>. The report points out that lengthy power outages could affect the entire U.S. and have international impacts. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Efforts to predict this space weather -- and prevent such catastrophes -- currently rely on data from a single spacecraft, which is wearing out.</span> While NASA's <span style="text-decoration: none;">ACE</span> (Advanced Composition Explorer) <span style="text-decoration: none;">has fuel through 2024, top scientists and military strategists have found that during space storms several key instruments have failed to report data in real time. This is like having a fire department that breaks down just when there is a fire, just when you need it the most. The DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate Observatory), replacement spacecraft for ACE, was built to monitor Earth weather and global warming, and also features equipment that can measure -- and help predict -- solar and space weather. DSCOVR was evaluated by the National Academy of Sciences and their report called this mission "strong and scientifically vital." </span>However, due to budgetary concerns, this $100+ million DSCOVR program is at risk as a potpourri of federal environmental, space, defense, and budgetary agencies attempt to pare down federal expenditures. In Congress, efforts to fund space weather in the "Critical Electric Infrastructure Protection Act," which also addresses cyber security, languishes in committee. Space weather remains an under-appreciated challenge. Spacecraft along with other space and ground assets can detect the arrival of these storms; but, <span style="text-decoration: none;">without an ACE replacement, there will be no warning in time to prevent potentially catastrophic damage. This is a serious life-threatening matter that demands our attention. We simply cannot afford to let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solar storm coming in 2013 – kills satellites and the grid.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tracton 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steve, Dr. Tracton was a Program Officer for Marine Meteorology at the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Before that, for 31 years he was a research scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). Dr. Tracton is recognized internationally as a principal agent and advocate in development, application, and use of operational ensemble prediction systems and strategies for dealing with forecast uncertainty “Do Solar Storms Threaten Life as We Know It?” 4/6 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2009/04/do_solar_storms_threaten_civil.html]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As severe as the possible effects of global warming might be, many of the worst-case impacts are not likely to occur on timescales less than a decade or so. Of perhaps more immediate concern to civilization as we know it -- quite literally -- is the threat posed by the expected increase in solar activity starting around 2011, which could disrupt many aspects of life that societies now take for granted and depend heavily upon for their daily existence. Electric power grids, communications and navigation systems (including GPS), and satellites (including weather) could be damaged beyond repair for many years. The consequences could be devastating for commerce, transportation, agriculture and food stocks, fuel and water supplies, human health and medical facilities, national security, and daily life in general. Keep reading for more on the looming threat of increased solar activity... A hypothetical scenario in New Scientist envisions the following the year after a violent storm on the surface of the sun: ...millions of Americans are dead and the nation's infrastructure lies in tatters. The World Bank declares America a developing nation. Europe, Scandinavia, China and Japan are also struggling to recover from the same fateful event... This exact scenario may be hypothetical, but as the New Scientist article notes, a report issued by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS) indicates a disaster of this sort is a distinct possibility. It's been known for centuries that the sun goes through cycles whereby a new period of increasing activity begins about every 11 years. Sunspots -- dark spots on the surface of the sun -- are indicators of solar activity, with solar activity increasing as the number of sunspots increases. Sunspots are sources of huge, violently energetic flares that propel into space streams of charged particles known as the solar wind. The particles themselves can be harmful to astronauts as well as airline passengers, especially on flights over polar regions. More significant are the potentially disastrous effects of geomagnetic storms produced when the solar wind encounters the outer limits of Earth's atmosphere (perhaps some consolation are the brilliant light shows, or auroras, that accompany these encounters). The current sunspot cycle is at a minimum -- in fact, the deepest minimum since at least 1913. As often true with weather forecast models, models developed by solar physicists and used, for example, by NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC), show a large degree of uncertainty as to when this solar minimum will end how big the next maximum will become over the next several years. Solar maxima, of course, are not new to humanity -- solar monitoring began with Galileo's invention of the telescope 400 years ago. In 1859, an astronomer named Richard Carrington observed an unprecedented outburst of sunspot activity that is believed to have produced the largest magnetic storm on record (see here and here). The next day, stunning auroras produced enough light for reading newspapers in the dark of night and could be seen as far south as Cuba, the Bahamas, Jamaica, El Salvador and Hawaii (typically auroras are most visible toward the poles). More disconcerting was that telegraph systems worldwide were disrupted to the point where sparks shocked telegraph operators and set telegraph paper on fire. Also, Victorian-era magnetometers were driven off the scale. In more recent memory, a magnetic storm generated auroras seen as far south as Florida and Cuba and resulted in collapse of Quebec's entire power grid, which fortunately was repaired in about nine hours. While the impacts of past solar storms may see benign compared to the likes of Hurricane Katrina, the consequences of future spikes in solar activity could be much more extreme. Just as buildings and infrastructure along coastlines create increased vulnerability to hurricanes, our ever-increasing reliance on technology has made us more and more susceptible to the dangers of solar storms. For example, power grids have become more efficient in running electricity networks, but in doing so have become more vulnerable to the potential damages from space weather that might take many months </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">to years to fix</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Take a minute and think about how your life -- and everyone else's -- would be affected by an extended, indefinite period without electricity. Not a pleasant thought. For additional context, according to the NAS report, the cost over just the first year following a severe geomagnetic storm could be as high as $2 trillion (the report doesn't discuss loss of life) -- and NAS puts the recovery time at four to 10 years. In comparison, the costs to date of Hurricane Katrina are estimated at $81 billion to $120 billion. The New Scientist article questions whether the U.S. would ever bounce back from a catastrophic solar storm. A related editorial notes that "politicians are unlikely to react to warnings of possible space weather catastrophes. Perhaps more traditional ways of catching their attention -- devastating loss of lives and money -- will do the trick." I find it difficult to disagree. The NAS report does address design and engineering approaches necessary to reduce the vulnerability of current technologies and systems to space weather. It's not clear to what extent thus far the report has led to concrete plans of action. However, such issues will be discussed at a meeting next month in Washington, D.C.: "Space Weather Enterprise Forum 2009: Space Weather and Our Technological Society -- Are We Ready for Solar Max?" I expect to report on this meeting in a future post. Stay tuned!! </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We are more vulnerable to the effects of solar storms than ever before </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derbyshire 11 [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' that could knock out communications satellites, ground aircraft and trigger blackouts - causing hundreds of billions of pounds of damage, scientists say. Astronomers today warned that mankind is now more vulnerable to a major solar storm than at any time in history - and that the planet should prepare for a global Katrina-style disaster. A massive eruption of the sun would send waves of radiation and charged particles to Earth, damaging the satellite systems used for synchronising computers, airline navigation and phone networks. If the storm is powerful enough it could even crash stock markets and cause power cuts that last weeks or months, experts told the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The chances of a disruption from space are getting stronger because the sun is entering the most active period of its 11 to 12-year natural cycle. The world got a taster of the sun's explosive power last week when the strongest solar eruption in five years sent a torrent of charged plasma hurtling towards the world at 580 miles per second. The storm created spectacular aurorae and disrupted radio communications. Professor Sir John Beddington, the government's chief scientific adviser, said: 'The issue of space weather has got to be taken seriously. We've had a relatively quiet period of space weather - but we can't expect that quiet period to continue. 'At the same time over that period the potential vulnerability of our systems has increased dramatically, whether it is the smart grid in our electricity systems or the ubiquitous use of GPS in just about everything we use these days. 'The situation has changed. We need to be thinking about the ability both to categorise and explain and give early warning when particular types of space weather are likely to occur.' Solar storms are caused by massive explosions on the sun. The explosions release waves of X-rays and ultraviolet radiation which smash into the Earth within minutes, disrupting radio signals and damaging the electronics of satellites. They are followed ten to 20 minutes later by a burst of energetic particles which cause even more havoc with satellites - and then 15 to 30 hours later by supercharged plasma which collides with Earth's magnetic field. The plasma create the aurora - or Northern Lights - and can induce electrical currents in power lines and cables. Jane Lubchenco, head of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said: 'This is not a matter of if, it is simply a matter of when and how big. 'The last time we had a maximum in the solar cycle, about 10 years ago, the world was a very different place. Cell phones are now ubiquitous; they were certainly around but we didn't rely on them for so many different things. 'Many things that we take for granted today are so much more prone to the process of space weather than was the case in the last solar maximum.' The sun goes through a regular activity cycle about 11 years long on average. The last solar maximum occurred in 2001. Its latest minimum was particularly weak and long lasting. Space storms are not new. The first major solar flare was recorded by British astronomer Richard Carrington in 1859. Other solar geomagnetic storms have been observed in recent decades. One huge solar flare in 1972 cut off long-distance telephone communication in the mid-western state of Illinois, Nasa said. Another similar flare in 1989 'provoked geomagnetic storms that disrupted electric power transmission' and caused blackouts across the Canadian province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phillips 10 [Tony, production editor of Science @ NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Earth and space are about to come into contact in a way that's new to human history. To make preparations, authorities in Washington DC are holding a meeting: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Space Weather Enterprise Forum at the National Press Club on June 8th. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Many technologies of the 21st century are vulnerable to solar storms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [<span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nswp.gov/|more]]</span>] Richard Fisher, head of NASA's Heliophysics Division, explains what it's all about: "The sun is waking up from a deep slumber, and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">in the next few years we expect to see much higher levels of solar activity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. At the same time, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">our technological society has developed an unprecedented sensitivity to solar storms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The intersection of these two issues is what we're getting together to discuss." The National Academy of Sciences framed the problem two years ago in a landmark report entitled "Severe Space Weather Events—Societal and Economic Impacts." It noted how people of the 21st-century rely on high-tech systems for the basics of daily life. Smart power grids, GPS navigation, air travel, financial services and emergency radio communications can all be knocked out by intense solar activity. A century-class solar storm, the Academy warned, could cause twenty times more economic damage than Hurricane Katrina. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Much of the damage can be mitigated if managers know a storm is coming. Putting satellites in 'safe mode' and disconnecting transformers can protect these assets from damaging electrical surges. Preventative action, however, requires accurate forecasting—a job that has been assigned to NOAA. "Space weather forecasting is still in its infancy, but we're making rapid progress," says Thomas Bogdan, director of NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Boulder, Colorado. Bogdan sees the collaboration between NASA and NOAA as key</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "NASA's fleet of heliophysics research spacecraft provides us with up-to-the-minute information about what's happening on the sun. They are an important complement to our own GOES and POES satellites, which focus more on the near-Earth environment." Click on the image to play a <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://svs.gsfc.nasa.gov/vis/a010000/a010500/a010584/g2010_026_helio_overview_portal.wmv|39 MB movie]]</span> about space weather and NASA's heliophysics fleet. [<span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/topics/solarsystem/sunearthsystem/main/index.html|more]]</span>] Among dozens of NASA spacecraft, he notes three of special significance: STEREO, SDO and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">ACE. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">STEREO (Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory) is a pair of spacecraft stationed on opposite sides of the sun with a combined view of 90% of the stellar surface. In the past, active sunspots could hide out on the sun's farside, invisible from Earth, and then suddenly emerge over the limb spitting flares and CMEs. STEREO makes such surprise attacks impossible. SDO (the Solar Dynamics Observatory) is the newest addition to NASA's fleet. Just launched in February, it is able to photograph solar active regions with unprecedented spectral, temporal and spatial resolution. Researchers can now study eruptions in exquisite detail, raising hopes that they will learn how flares work and how to predict them. SDO also monitors the sun's extreme UV output, which controls the response of Earth's atmosphere to solar variability. On April 19, 2010, SDO observed one of the most massive eruptions in years. Earth was not in the line of fire ... this time. [<span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/27apr10_plasmarain/|full story]]</span>] </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Bogdan's favorite NASA satellite, however, is an old one: the Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) launched in 1997. "Where would we be without it?" he wonders. ACE is a solar wind monitor. It sits upstream between the sun and Earth, detecting solar wind gusts, billion-ton CMEs, and radiation storms as much as 30 minutes before they hit our planet. "ACE is our best early warning system," says Bogdan. "It allows us to notify utility and satellite operators when a storm is about to hit.” NASA spacecraft were not originally intended for operational forecasting—"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but it turns out that our data have practical economic and civil uses," notes Fisher. "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">This is a good example of space science supporting modern society." 2010 marks the 4th year in a row that policymakers, researchers, legislators and reporters have gathered in Washington DC to share ideas about space weather.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This year, forum organizers plan to sharpen the focus on critical infrastructure protection. The ultimate goal is to improve the nation’s ability to prepare, mitigate, and respond to potentially devastating space weather events. "I believe we're on the threshold of a new era in which space weather can be as influential in our daily lives as ordinary terrestrial weather." Fisher concludes. "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">We take this very seriously indeed." </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scenario 1: Miscalc</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Satellite malfunctions are indistinguishable – a harsh space environment will trigger an accidental war</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coffelt 5 – Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or “anomalies.” It is oftentimes difficult if not impossible to determine if satellite failures or problems are due to an everyday system anomaly, a natural event caused by the harsh space environment, the result of unintentional interference, or due to a malicious attack. If the US fields weapons that can interfere with spacecraft, failures on adversary spacecraft may be attributed as a us attack even when no such attack occurred. This would obviously heighten tensions which could escalate into larger conflict, and be quite destabilizing. Moreover, this is already beginning to occur. According to a GAO report, in 1997 “Indonesia intentionally interfered with and denied the services of a commercial satellite belonging to the south pacific island kingdom of Tonga because of a satellite orbital slot dispute.” Attribution of this attack was easy because Indonesia admitted to the attack, but is not likely to be so easy for most cases. Accurate attribution may, however, be irrelevant in future cases where country A merely perceives that a satellite failure or denial is the result of an attack by rival country B. Whether or not an attack actually occurred, the result will be the same as if it had. Increased tensions between the two countries will result, and country A is likely to act/respond, causing a counter reaction by country B and so on. In the end, there will be no proof that the failure was simply a system anomaly, an actual attack by country B, or possibly even an attack by a third party, country C, to instigate a conflict between A and B for their own purposes. Once measures are employed against these spacecraft, it also sets an international precedent for the use of such systems as an accepted, legal form of warfare. One can only expect proliferation of these systems and their use to become more common, as seen in the Indonesian case and others that have occurred since that time. Most importantly, the mere development and deployment of these systems starts the US down the slippery slope of offensive space strategy that may have serious, negative, unintended consequences that make it harder for the us to protect its own systems and access to space. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">30 Minute Timeframe to massive nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Morgan 9, Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for the accidental factor of nuclear war, both the U.S. and Russia have ‘‘launch on warning’’ systems that send off rockets before confirmation that a nuclear attack is underway; thus, especially during a time of tensions, a massive nuclear war could take place within only 30 min after a warning—even if the warning is false. This scenario has almost happened on several occasions in the past. It was only because of individual human judgments, which disbelieved the false warnings, that nuclear war did not happen, but if the human judgment had indeed interpreted the warnings according to protocol, an allout nuclear war would surely have taken place.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scenario 2: Nuclear Meltdowns</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IB Times 9/14/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm</span>
(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, comet Elenin or the Rapture. The real threat to human civilization is far more mundane, and it's right in front of our noses. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If Fukushima has taught us anything, it's that just one runaway meltdown of fissionable nuclear material can have wide-ranging and potentially devastating consequences for life on Earth. To date, Fukushima has already released 168 times the total radiation released from the Hiroshima nuclear bomb</span> detonated in 1945, and the Fukushima catastrophe is now undeniably the worst nuclear disaster in the history of human civilization. <span style="text-decoration: none;">But what if human civilization faced a far greater threat than a single tsunami destroying a nuclear power facility? What if a global tidal wave could destroy the power generating capacities of all the world's power plants, all at once? Such a scenario is not merely possible, but factually inevitable. And the global tidal wave threatening all the nuclear power plants of the world isn't made of water but solar emissions. The sun</span>, you see, <span style="text-decoration: none;">is acting up again. NASA recently warned that solar activity is surging, with a peak expected to happen in 2013 that could generate enormous radiation levels that sweep across planet Earth</span>. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has even issued an urgent warning about solar flares due to strike in 2012 and 2013. IBtimes wrote, "<span style="text-decoration: none;">With solar activity expected to peak around 2013, the Sun is entering a particularly active time and big flares like the recent one will likely be common during the next few years. ...A major flare in the mid-19th century blocked the nascent telegraph system, and some scientists believe that another such event is now overdue."</span> (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194|http://www.IBTimes.com/articles/194]]</span>...) The story goes on to explain: "Several federal government studies suggest that this extreme solar activity and emissions may result in complete blackouts for years in some areas of the nation. Moreover, there may also be disruption of power supply for years, or even decades, as geomagnetic currents attracted by the storm could debilitate the transformers." Why does all this matter? To understand that, you have to understand how nuclear power plants function. Or, put another way, how is nuclear material prevented from "going nuclear" every single day across our planet? Every nuclear power plant operates in a near-meltdown state <span style="text-decoration: none;">All nuclear power plants are operated in a near-meltdown status. They operate at very high hea</span>t, relying on nuclear fission to boil water that produces steam to drive the turbines that generate electricity. Critically, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the nuclear fuel is prevented from melting down through the steady circulation of coolants</span> which are pushed through the cooling system using very high powered electric pumps. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If you stop the electric pumps, the coolant stops flowing and the fuel rods go critical (and then melt down). This is what happened in Fukushima, where the melted fuel rods dropped through the concrete floor of the containment vessels</span>, unleashing enormous quantities of ionizing radiation into the surrounding environment. The full extent of the Fukushima contamination is not even known yet, as the facility is still emitting radiation. It's crucial to understand that <span style="text-decoration: none;">nuclear coolant pumps are usually driven by power from the electrical grid. They are not normally driven by power generated locally from the nuclear power plant itself. Instead, they're connected to the grid. In other words, even though nuclear power plants are generating megawatts of electricity for the grid, they are also dependant on the grid to run their own coolant pumps</span>. If the grid goes down, the coolant pumps go down, too, which is why they are quickly switched to emergency backup power -- either generators or batteries. As we learned with Fukushima, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the on-site batteries can only drive the coolant pumps for around eight hours</span>. After that, the nuclear facility is dependent on diesel generators (or sometimes propane) to run the pumps that circulate the coolant which prevents the whole site from going Chernobyl. And yet, critically, this depends on something rather obvious: The delivery of diesel fuel to the site. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If diesel cannot be delivered, the generators can't be fired up and the coolant can't be circulated. When you grasp the importance of this supply line dependency, you will instantly understand why a single solar flare could unleash a nuclear holocaust across the planet</span>. When the generators fail and the coolant pumps stop pumping, nuclear fuel rods begin to melt through their containment rods, unleashing ungodly amounts of life-destroying radiation directly into the atmosphere. This is precisely why Japanese engineers worked so hard to reconnect the local power grid to the Fukushima facility after the tidal wave -- they needed to bring power back to the generators to run the pumps that circulate the coolant. This effort failed, of course, which is why Fukushima became such a nuclear disaster and released countless becquerels of radiation into the environment (with no end in sight). And yet, <span style="text-decoration: none;">despite the destruction we've already seen with Fukushima, U.S. nuclear power plants are nowhere near being prepared to handle sustained power grid failures</span>. As IBtimes reports: "Last month, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said U.S. plants affected by a blackout should be able to cope without electricity for at least eight hours and should have procedures to keep the reactor and spent-fuel pool cool for 72 hours. Nuclear plants depend on standby batteries and backup diesel generators. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Most standby power systems would continue to function after a severe solar storm, but supplying the standby power systems with adequate fuel, when the main power grids are offline for years, could become a very critical problem. If the spent fuel rod pools at the country's 104 nuclear power plants lose their connection to the power grid, the current regulations aren't sufficient to guarantee those pools won't boil over</span> -- exposing the hot, zirconium-clad rods and sparking fires that would release deadly radiation." (http://www.IBTimes.com/articles/194...) Now, what does all this have to do with solar flares? How the end of modern civilization will most likely occur As any sufficiently informed scientist will readily admit, <span style="text-decoration: none;">solar flares have the potential to blow out the transformers throughout the national power grid. That's because solar flares induce geomagnetic currents</span> (powerful electromagnetic impulses) <span style="text-decoration: none;">which overload the transformers and cause them to explode</span>. You've probably witnessed this yourself during a lightning storm when lightning unleashes a powerful electromagnetic pulse that causes a local transformer to explode. Solar flares do the same thing on a much larger scale. A global scale, in fact. The upshot of this situation is that <span style="text-decoration: none;">suddenly and without warning, the power grid infrastructure across nearly the entire planet could be destroyed. As a bonus, nearly all satellites will be fried, too, leaving GPS inoperable</span> and causing millions of clueless drivers to become forever lost in their own neighborhoods because they never paid attention to the streets and always relied on a GPS voice to tell them, "In fifty feet, turn right." <span style="text-decoration: none;">Communications satellites will be obliterated, too</span>. This, of course, will halt nearly all news propaganda distribution across the planet, causing tens of thousands of people to instantly die out of the sheer fear of suddenly having to think for themselves. As another bonus, nearly all mobile phone service will be disrupted, too, meaning all the teenage text junkies of the world will, for the first time in their lives, be forced to lay down their iPhones and interact with real people in the real world. <span style="text-decoration: none;">But the real kicker in all this is that the power grid will be destroyed nearly everywhere. </span>What happens when there's no electricity? <span style="text-decoration: none;">Imagine a world without electricity. Even for just a week</span>. Imagine New York City with no electricity, or Los Angeles, or Sao Paulo. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Within 72 hours, most cities around the world will devolve into total chaos, complete with looting, violent crime, and runaway fires</span>. But that's not even the bad news. Even if all the major cities of the world burned to the ground for some other reason, humanity could still recover because it has the farmlands: the soils, the seeds, and the potential to recover, right? <span style="text-decoration: none;">And yet the real crisis here stems from the realization that once there is no power grid, all the nuclear power plants of the world suddenly go into "emergency mode" and are forced to rely on their on-site emergency power backups to circulate coolants and prevent nuclear meltdowns from occurring</span>. And yet, as we've already established, <span style="text-decoration: none;">these facilities typically have only a few hours of battery power available, followed by perhaps a few days worth of diesel fuel to run their generators</span> (or propane, in some cases). Did I also mention that half the people who work at nuclear power facilities have no idea what they're doing in the first place? Most of the veterans who really know the facilities inside and out have been forced into retirement due to reaching their lifetime limits of on-the-job radiation exposure, so most of the workers at nuclear facilities right now are newbies who really have no clue what they're doing. <span style="text-decoration: none;">There are 440 nuclear power plants operating across 30 countries around the world today. There are an additional 250 so-called "research reactors" in existence, making a total of roughly 700 nuclear reactors to be dealt with</span> (http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/i...). <span style="text-decoration: none;">Now imagine the scenario: You've got a massive solar flare that knocks out the world power grid and destroys the majority of the power grid transformers, thrusting the world into darkness. Cities collapse into chaos and rioting, martial law is quickly declared</span> (but it hardly matters), <span style="text-decoration: none;">and every nation in the world is on full emergency. But that doesn't solve the really big problem, which is that you've got 700 nuclear reactors that can't feed power into the grid (because all the transformers are blown up) and yet simultaneously have to be fed a steady stream of emergency fuels to run the generators the keep the coolant pumps functioning</span>. How long does the coolant need to circulate in these facilities to cool the nuclear fuel? Months. This is also the lesson of Fukushima: <span style="text-decoration: none;">You can't cool nuclear fuel in mere hours or days. It takes months to bring these nuclear facilities to a state of cold shutdown. And that means in order to avoid a multitude of Fukushima-style meltdowns from occurring around the world, you need to truck diesel fuel, generator parts and nuclear plant workers to every nuclear facility on the planet, ON TIME, every time, without fail, for months on end</span>. Now remember, this must be done in the middle of the total chaos breakdown of modern civilization, where there is no power, where law enforcement and emergency services are totally overrun, where people are starving because food deliveries have been disrupted, and when looting and violent crime runs rampant in the streets of every major city in the world. Somehow, despite all this, you have to run these diesel fuel caravans to the nuclear power plants and keep the pumps running. Except there's a problem in all this, even if you assume you can somehow work a logistical miracle and actually deliver the diesel fuel to the backup generators on time (which you probably can't). <span style="text-decoration: none;">The problem is this: Where do you get diesel fuel? </span>Why refineries will be shut down, too <span style="text-decoration: none;">From petroleum refineries. Most people don't realize it, but petroleum refineries run on electricity. Without the power grid, the refineries don't produce a drop of diesel</span>. With no diesel, there are no generators keeping the coolant running in the nuclear power facilities. But wait, you say: Maybe we could just acquire diesel from all the gas stations in the world. Pump it out of the ground, load it into trucks and use that to power the generators, right? Except there are other problems here: How do you pump all that fuel without electricity? How do you acquire all the tires and spare parts needed to keep trucks running if there's no electricity to keep the supply businesses running? How do you maintain a truck delivery infrastructure when the electrical infrastructure is totally wiped out? Some countries might be able to pull it off with some degree of success. With military escorts and the total government control over all fuel supplies, a few nations will be able to keep a few nuclear power facilities from melting down. But here's the real issue: <span style="text-decoration: none;">There are 700 nuclear power facilities in the world, remember? Let's suppose that in the aftermath of a massive solar flare, the nations of the world are somehow able to control half of those facilities and nurse them into cold shutdown status. That still leaves roughly 350 nuclear facilities at risk</span>. Now let's suppose half of those are somehow luckily offline and not even functioning when the solar flare hits, so they need no special attention. This is a very optimistic assumption, but that still leaves 175 nuclear power plants where all attempts fail. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Let's be outrageously optimistic and suppose that a third of those somehow don't go into a total meltdown by some miracle of God, or some bizarre twist in the laws of physics. So we're still left with 115 nuclear power plants that "go Chernobyl." Fukushima was one power plant. Imagine the devastation of 100+ nuclear power plants, all going into meltdown all at once across the planet. It's not the loss of electricity that's the real problem; it's the global tidal wave of invisible radiation that blankets the planet, permeates the topsoil, irradiates everything that breathes and delivers the final crushing blow to human civilization as we know it today. Because if you have 100 simultaneous global nuclear meltdowns, the tidal wave of radiation will make farming nearly impossible for years. That means no food production for several years in a row. And that, in turn, means a near-total collapse of the human population on our planet. How many people can survive an entire year with no food from the farms? Not one in a hundred people</span>. Even beyond that, how many people can essentially live underground and be safe enough from the radiation that they can have viable children and repopulate the planet? It's a very, very small fraction of the total population. Solar flares far more likely to hit nuclear power plants than tidal waves or earthquakes What's the chance of all this actually happening<span style="text-decoration: none;">?</span> A report by the Oak Ridge National Laboratory said that "...over the standard 40-year license term of nuclear power plants, solar flare activity enables a 33 percent chance of long-term power loss, a risk that significantly outweighs that of major earthquakes and tsunamis." (http://www.IBTimes.com/articles/194...) <span style="text-decoration: none;">The world's reliance on nuclear power, you see, has doomed us to destroy our own civilization</span>. Of course, this is all preventable if we would only dismantle and shut down ALL nuclear power plants on the planet. But what are the chances of that happening? Zero, of course. There are too many commercial and political interests invested in nuclear power. <span style="text-decoration: none;">So the power plants will stay, and we will therefore be vulnerable to a solar flare which could strike us at any time and unleash a global nuclear holocaust. Planet Earth has been struck by solar flares before, of course, but all the big hits in recorded human history took place long before the age of modern electronics, so the impacts were minimal. Today, society cannot function without electronics. Nor can nuclear facility coolant pumps. Once you realize that, you begin to understand the true danger in which humanity has placed itself by relying on nuclear power</span>. By relying on nuclear power, we are risking everything. And we're doing it blindly, with no real acknowledgement of the dangers of running 700+ nuclear facilities in a constant state of "near meltdown" while foolishly relying on the steady flow of electricity to keep the fuel rods cool. If Fukushima, all by itself, could unleash a tidal wave of deadly radiation all by itself, imagine a world where hundreds of nuclear facilities go into a total meltdown simultaneously.

Scenario 3 is the Economy

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 2013 storms will kill satellites and the economy – plasma erosion.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Knapp 9/14/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alex, futurism columnist for Forbes, A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]]</span> JG</span>
Last October, around Halloween, the Sun produced a solar storm that was one of the largest ever recorded, and was strong enough to raise some concerns about the safety of Earth’s satellites. According to a recent paper published in Space Weather, such concern may well be justified. If its conclusions are correct, then <span style="text-decoration: none;">a solar storm the size of one that was observed in 1859 could potentially kill several weather, telecommunications, and military satellites in less than a year</span>.
Here’s where the danger lies: most <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellites</span>, at least at some point in their orbits, <span style="text-decoration: none;">fly through the inner radiation belt surrounding the Earth</span> (aka the Van Allen Belt). The inner radiation belt, like it says on the tin, comprises quite a bit of intense radiation. However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellites are shielded from that radiation, and the intensity of the radiation in the inner belt is relatively stable. That’s because it’s in large part shielded from high-energy particles by the plasmasphere</span>, which is a cloud of plasma that is part of the Earth’s magnetosphere. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Usually, when a solar storm hits, most of the radiation either hits the outer radiation belt or the plasmaphere. When the plasmasphere gets hit, some of the plasma dissipates, making it smaller, but that dissipation prevents too much intense radiation from hitting the inner belt</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">During the Halloween storms, observations showed that there was significant erosion of the plasmasphere</span>. Not enough to let significant radiation into the inner belt, but enough that the study authors wanted to take a closer look at the data. Based on observational data of solar storms, the radiation belts, and the plasmasphere during past years, the authors were able to successfully model the Halloween solar storm. They then modeled a solar storm with the intensity of the Carrington Solar Storm, which took place in 1859 and is estimated to have been about four times stronger than the Halloween storms.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">When the Carrington storm was modeled, the results showed that the plasmasphere was eroded to the point that much more radiation reached the inner belt than is normally the case. Moreover, the intensity produced “waves” of strong radiation continually moving through the inner belt. Based on their models</span>, the authors suggest that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the high radiation intensity of the inner belt could persist for as long as a decade. That intensity would likely swamp the radiation shielding on a typical satellite</span>, and the authors estimate that <span style="text-decoration: none;">most would be rendered inoperable</span> within a year after the storm.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The loss of satellites as a result of a solar storm would be an economic catastrophe – we rely on satellites for a large portion of our day to day lives, even when we don’t realize it. The researchers hope to continue their work modeling radiation from solar storms, with an eye towards better and more accurate predictions, as well as looking for ways to diminish the impacts of such storms.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have the fastest time frame.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bryan 03Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This worsened the already-anemic state of a U.S. economy that had been hammered by a massive stock-market meltdown and a series of confidencesapping corporate scandals. It hurt Canada, too, weakening our biggest market. So now, just when there are signs of healthy growth in both countries, is the last time you'd want to see a large part of the continent's electric-power network collapse. We can be grateful that the immediate impacts look modest. David Rosenberg, chief North American economist with Merrill Lynch, estimates that the U.S. impact could amount to as much as $30 billion for each day of interrupted activity. That's roughly one percentage point of quarterly economic growth, which means that just a few days could theoretically take economic growth in the third quarter right down to zero. But this is just the first step in his analysis. In reality, most activity was returning to something close to normal by yesterday. More important, Rosenberg says, any losses in August are likely to be recouped in September, much as economic activity rebounds to wipe out most losses after a severe winter storm. But even if we do look back on the great blackout of '03 as a mere hiccup for the economy, there will be little reason for complacency. As Royal Bank economist John Anania notes, the reliability of the power grid is absolutely indispensable in an information-age economy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Collapse of the economy causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mead 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; they have left the societies that have tried them in a progressively worse position, farther behind the front-runners as time goes by. Argentina has lost ground to Chile; Russian development has fallen farther behind that of the Baltic states and Central Europe. Frequently, the crisis has weakened the power of the merchants, industrialists, financiers, and professionals who want to develop a liberal capitalist society integrated into the world. Crisis can also strengthen the hand of religious extremists, populist radicals, or authoritarian traditionalists who are determined to resist liberal capitalist society for a variety of reasons. Meanwhile, the companies and banks based in these societies are often less established and more vulnerable to the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies. As a result, developing countries and countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes--as, inevitably, it does. And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth. This may be happening yet again. None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession. History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, so has war. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises. Bad economic times can breed wars. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born? The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> [</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="text-decoration: none;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span> Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that <span style="text-decoration: none;">rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next</span>. As such, exogenous shocks such as <span style="text-decoration: none;">economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power</span> (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, <span style="text-decoration: none;">increasing the risk of miscalculation</span> (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, <span style="text-decoration: none;">even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict</span> as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Pollins</span> (1996) also <span style="text-decoration: none;">shows that global economic cycles</span> combined with parallel leadership cycles <span style="text-decoration: none;">impact the likelihood of conflict among major</span>, medium and small <span style="text-decoration: none;">powers</span>, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that <span style="text-decoration: none;">'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states</span>. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if the expectations of future trade decline</span>, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could</span> potentially be the <span style="text-decoration: none;">trigger</span> for <span style="text-decoration: none;">decreased trade expectations</span> either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, <span style="text-decoration: none;">others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess</span> (2002) <span style="text-decoration: none;">find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn</span>. They write: <span style="text-decoration: none;">The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing.</span> Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the <span style="text-decoration: none;">presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other</span>. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) <span style="text-decoration: none;">Economic decline has</span> also <span style="text-decoration: none;">been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism</span> (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. <span style="text-decoration: none;">"Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect.</span> Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states</span> than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that <span style="text-decoration: none;">periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force</span>. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas <span style="text-decoration: none;">political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels</span>.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

Contention 3 is Warming
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and oceanic feedbacks</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09 (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to human activities. The stated objective (Article 2) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is to achieve stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a low enough level to prevent ‘‘dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system.’’ Many studies have focused on projections of possible 21st century dangers (1–3). However, the principles (Article 3) of the UNFCCC specifically emphasize ‘‘threats of serious or irreversible damage,’’ underscoring the importance of the longer term. While some irreversible climate changes such as ice sheet collapse are possible but highly uncertain (1, 4), others can now be identified with greater confidence, and examples among the latter are presented in this paper. It is not generally appreciated that the atmospheric temperature increases caused by rising carbon dioxide concentrations are not expected to decrease significantly even if carbon emissions were to completely cease (5–7) (see Fig. 1). Future carbon dioxide emissions in the 21st century will hence lead to adverse climate changes on both short and long time scales that would be essentially irreversible (where irreversible is defined here as a time scale exceeding the end of the millennium in year 3000; note that we do not consider geo-engineering measures that might be able to remove gases already in the atmosphere or to introduce active cooling to counteract warming). For the same reason, the physical climate changes that are due to anthropogenic carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere today are expected to be largely irreversible. Such climate changes will lead to a range of damaging impacts in different regions and sectors, some of which occur promptly in association with warming, while others build up uner sustained warming because of the time lags of the processes involved. Here we illustrate 2 such aspects of the irreversibly altered world that should be expected. These aspects are among reasons for concern but are not comprehensive; other possible climate impacts include Arctic sea ice retreat, increases in heavy rainfall and flooding, permafrost melt, loss of glaciers and snowpack with attendant changes in water supply, increased intensity of hurricanes, etc. A complete climate impacts review is presented elsewhere (8) and is beyond the scope of this paper. We focus on illustrative adverse and irreversible climate impacts for which 3 criteria are met: (i) observed changes are already occurring and there is evidence for anthropogenic contributions to these changes, (ii) the phenomenon is based upon physical principles thought to be well understood, and (iii) projections are available and are broadly robust across models. Advances in modeling have led not only to improvements in complex Atmosphere–Ocean General Circulation Models (AOGCMs) for projecting 21st century climate, but also to the implementation of Earth System Models of Intermediate Complexity (EMICs) for millennial time scales. These 2 types of models are used in this paper to show how different peak carbon dioxide concentrations that could be attained in the 21st century are expected to lead to substantial and irreversible decreases in dry-season rainfall in a number of already-dry subtropical areas and lower limits to eventual sea level rise of the order of meters, implying unavoidable inundation of many small islands and low-lying coastal areas. Results Longevity of an Atmospheric CO2 Perturbation. As has long been known, the removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere involves multiple processes including rapid exchange with the land biosphere and the surface layer of the ocean through air–sea exchange and much slower penetration to the ocean interior that is dependent upon the buffering effect of ocean chemistry along with vertical transport (9–12). On the time scale of a millennium addressed here, the CO2 equilibrates largely between the atmosphere and the ocean and, depending on associated increases in acidity and in ocean warming (i.e., an increase in the Revelle or ‘‘buffer’’ factor, see below), typically 20% of the added tonnes of CO2 remain in the atmosphere while 80% are mixed into the ocean. Carbon isotope studies provide important observational constraints on these processes and time constants. On multimil- lenium and longer time scales, geochemical and geological processes could restore atmospheric carbon dioxide to its pre- industrial values (10, 11), but are not included here. Fig. 1 illustrates how the concentrations of carbon dioxide would be expected to fall off through the coming millennium if manmade emissions were to cease immediately following an illustrative future rate of emission increase of 2% per year [comparable to observations over the past decade (ref. 13)] up to peak concentrations of 450, 550, 650, 750, 850, or 1,200 ppmv; similar results were obtained across a range of EMICs that were assessed in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report (5, 7). This is not intended to be a realistic scenario but rather to represent a test case whose purpose is to probe physical climate system changes. A more gradual reduction of carbon dioxide emission (as is more likely), or a faster or slower adopted rate of emissions in the growth period, would lead to long-term behavior qualitatively similar to that illustrated in Fig. 1 (see also Fig. S1). The example of a sudden cessation of emissions provides an upper bound to how much reversibility is possible, if, for example, unexpectedly damaging climate changes were to be observed. Carbon dioxide is the only greenhouse gas whose falloff displays multiple rather than single time constants (see Fig. S2). Current emissions of major non-CO2 greenhouse gases such as methane or nitrous oxide are significant for climate change in the next few decades or century, but these gases do not persist over time in the same way as carbon dioxide (14). Fig. 1 shows that a quasi-equilibrium amount of CO2 is expected to be retained in the atmosphere by the end of the millennium that is surprisingly large: typically 40% of the peak concentration enhancement over preindustrial values ( 280 ppmv). This can be easily understood on the basis of the observed instantaneous airborne fraction (AFpeak) of 50% of anthropogenic carbon emissions retained during their buildup in the atmosphere, together with well-established ocean chemistry and physics that require 20% of the emitted carbon to remain in the atmosphere on thousand-year timescales [quasi- equilibrium airborne fraction (AFequi), determined largely by the Revelle factor governing the long-term partitioning of carbon between the ocean and atmosphere/biosphere system] (9–11). Assuming given cumulative emissions, EMI, the peak concen- tration, CO2peak (increase over the preindustrial value CO20), and the resulting 1,000-year quasi-equilibrium concentration, CO2equi can be expressed as COpeak 2 = CO02 + AFpeak EMI [1] COequi 2 = CO02 + AFequi EMI [2] so that COequi2 – CO0 2 = AFequi/AFpeak (COpeak 2 – CO02) [3] Given an instantaneous airborne fraction (AFpeak) of 50% during the period of rising CO2, and a quasi-equilbrium airborne factor (AFequi) of 20%, it follows that the quasi-equilibrium enhancement of CO2 concentration above its preindustrial value is 40% of the peak enhancement. For example, if the CO2 concentration were to peak at 800 ppmv followed by zero emissions, the quasi-equilibrium CO2 concentration would still be far above the preindustrial value at 500 ppmv. Additional carbon cycle feedbacks could reduce the efficiency of the ocean and biosphere to remove the anthropogenic CO2 and thereby increase these CO2 values (15, 16). Further, a longer decay time and increased CO2 concentrations at year 1000 are expected for large total carbon emissions (17). Irreversible Climate Change: Atmospheric Warming. Global average temperatures increase while CO2 is increasing and then remain approximately constant (within 0.5 °C) until the end of the millennium despite zero further emissions in all of the test cases shown in Fig. 1. This important result is due to a near balance between the long-term decrease of radiative forcing due to CO2 concentration decay and reduced cooling through heat loss to the oceans. It arises because long-term carbon dioxide removal and ocean heat uptake are both dependent on the same physics of deep-ocean mixing.Sea level rise due to thermal expansion accompanies mixing of heat into the ocean long after carbon dioxide emissions have stopped. For larger carbon dioxide concentrations, warming and thermal sea level rise show greater increases and display transient changes that can be very rapid (i.e., the rapid changes in Fig. 1 Middle), mainly because of changes in ocean circulation (18). Paleoclimatic evidence suggests that additional contributions from melting of glaciers and ice sheets may be comparable to or greater than thermal expansion (discussed further below), but these are not included in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 explores how close the modeled temperature changes are to thermal equilibrium with respect to the changing carbon dioxide concentration over time, sometimes called the realized warming fraction (19) (shown for the different peak CO2 cases). Fig. 2 Left shows how the calculated warmings compare to those expected if temperatures were in equilibrium with the carbon dioxide concentrations vs. time, while Fig. 2 Right shows the ratio of these calculated time-dependent and equilibrium tempera- tures. During the period when carbon dioxide is increasing, the realized global warming fraction is 50–60% of the equilibrium warming, close to values obtained in other models (5, 19). After emissions cease, the temperature change approaches equilib- rium with respect to the slowly decreasing carbon dioxide concentrations (cyan lines in Fig. 2 Right). The continuing warming through year 3000 is maintained at 40–60% of the equilibrium warming corresponding to the peak CO2 concentration (magenta lines in Fig. 2 Right). Related changes in fast-responding atmospheric climate variables such as precipitation, water vapor, heat waves, cloudiness, etc., are expected to occur largely simultaneously with the temperature changes. Irreversible Climate Change: Precipitation Changes. Warming is expected to be linked to changes in rainfall (20), which can adversely affect the supply of water for humans, agriculture, and ecosystems. Precipitation is highly variable but long-term rainfall decreases have been observed in some large regions including, e.g., the Mediterranean, southern Africa, and parts of south- western North America (21–25). Confident projection of future changes remains elusive over many parts of the globe and at small scales. However, well-known physics (the Clausius–Clapeyron law) implies that increased temperature causes increased atmospheric water vapor concentrations, and changes in water vapor transport and the hydrologic cycle can hence be expected (26–28). Further, advances in modeling show that a robust characteristic of anthropogenic climate change is poleward expansion of the Hadley cell and shifting of the pattern of precipitation minus evaporation (P–E) and the storm tracks (22, 26), and hence a pattern of drying over much of the already-dry subtropics in a warmer world ( 15°-40° latitude in each hemi- sphere) (5, 26). Attribution studies suggest that such a drying pattern is already occurring in a manner consistent with models including anthropogenic forcing (23), particularly in the south- western United States (22) and Mediterranean basin (24, 25). We use a suite of 22 available AOGCM projections based upon the evaluation in the IPCC 2007 report (5, 29) to characterize precipitation changes. Changes in precipitation are expected (5, 20, 30) to scale approximately linearly with increasing warming (see Fig. S3). The equilibrium relationship between precipitation and temperature may be slightly smaller (by 15%) than the transient values, due to changes in the land/ ocean thermal contrast (31). On the other hand, the observed 20th century changes follow a similar latitudinal pattern but presently exceed those calculated by AOGCMs (23). Models that include more complex representations of the land surface, soil, and vegetation interactively are likely to display additional feedbacks so that larger precipitation responses are possible. Here we evaluate the relationship between temperature and precipitation averaged for each month and over a decade at each grid point. One ensemble member is used for each model so that all AOGCMs are equally weighted in the multimodel ensemble; results are nearly identical if all available model ensemble members are used. Fig. 3 presents a map of the expected dry-season (3 driest consecutive months at each grid point) precipitation trends per degree of global warming. Fig. 3 shows that large uncertainties remain in the projections for many regions (white areas). How- ever, it also shows that there are some subtropical locations on every inhabited continent where dry seasons are expected to become drier in the decadal average by up to 10% per degree of warming. Some of these grid points occur in desert regions that are already very dry, but many occur in currently more temperate and semiarid locations. We find that model results are more robust over land across the available models over wider areas for drying of the dry season than for the annual mean or wet season (see Fig. S4). The Insets in Fig. 3 show the monthly mean projected precipitation changes averaged over several large regions as delineated on the map. Increased drying of respective dry seasons is projected by 90% of the models averaged over the indicated regions of southern Europe, northern Africa, southern Africa, and southwestern North America and by 80% of the models for eastern South America and western Australia (see Fig. S3). Although given particular years would show exceptions, the long-term irreversible warming and mean rainfall changes as suggested by Figs. 1 and 3 would have important consequences in many regions. While some relief can be expected in the wet season for some regions (Fig. S4), changes in dry-season precipitation in northern Africa, southern Europe, and western Australia are expected to be near 20% for 2 °C warming, and those of southwestern North America, eastern South America, and southern Africa would be 10% for 2 °C of global mean warming. For comparison, the American ‘‘dust bowl’’ was associated with averaged rainfall decreases of 10% over 10–20 years, similar to major droughts in Europe and western Australia in the 1940s and 1950s (22, 32). The spatial changes in precipitation as shown in Fig. 3 imply greater challenges in the distribution of food and water supplies than those with which the world has had difficulty coping in the past. Such changes occurring not just for a few decades but over centuries are expected to have a range of impacts that differ by region. These include, e.g., human water supplies (25), effects on dry-season wheat and maize agriculture in certain regions of rain-fed farming such as Africa (33, 34), increased fire frequency, ecosystem change, and desertification (24, 35–38). Fig. 4 Upper relates the expected irreversible changes in regional dry-season precipitation shown in Fig. 3 to best estimates of the corresponding peak and long-term CO2 concentrations. We use 3 °C as the best estimate of climate sensitivity across the suite of AOGCMs for a doubling of carbon dioxide from preindustrial values (5) along with the regional drying values depicted in Fig. 3 and assuming that 40% of the carbon dioxide peak concentration is retained after 1000 years. Fig. 4 shows that if carbon dioxide were to peak at levels of 450 ppmv, irreversible decreases of 8–10% in dry-season precipitation would be expected on average over each of the indicated large regions of southern Europe, western Australia, and northern Africa, while a carbon dioxide peak value near 600 ppmv would be expected to lead to sustained rainfall decreases of 13–16% in the dry seasons in these areas; smaller but statistically significant irreversible changes would also be expected for southwestern North America, eastern South America, and Southern Africa. Irreversible Climate Change: Sea Level Rise. Anthropogenic carbon dioxide will cause irrevocable sea level rise. There are 2 relatively well-understood processes that contribute to this and a third that may be much more important but is also very uncertain. Warm- ing causes the ocean to expand and sea levels to rise as shown in Fig. 1; this has been the dominant source of sea level rise in the past decade at least (39). Loss of land ice also makes important contributions to sea level rise as the world warms. Mountain glaciers in many locations are observed to be retreating due to warming, and this contribution to sea level rise is also relatively well understood. Warming may also lead to large losses of the Greenland and/or Antarctic ice sheets. Additional rapid ice losses from particular parts of the ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica have recently been observed (40–42). One recent study uses current ice discharge data to suggest ice sheet contributions of up to 1–2 m to sea level rise by 2100 (42), but other studies suggest that changes in winds rather than warming may account for currently observed rapid ice sheet flow (43), rendering quantitative extrapolation into the future uncertain. In addition to rapid ice flow, slow ice sheet mass balance processes are another mechanism for potential large sea level rise. Paleoclimatic data demonstrate large contributions of ice sheet loss to sea level rise (1, 4) but provide limited constraints on the rate of such processes. Some recent studies suggest that ice sheet surface mass balance loss for peak CO2 concentrations of 400–800 ppmv may be even slower than the removal of manmade carbon dioxide following cessation of emis- sions, so that this loss could contribute less than a meter to irreversible sea level rise even after many thousands of years (44, 45). It is evident that the contribution from the ice sheets could be large in the future, but the dependence upon carbon dioxide levels is extremely uncertain not only over the coming century but also in the millennial time scale. An assessed range of models suggests that the eventual contribution to sea level rise from thermal expansion of the ocean is expected to be 0.2–0.6 m per degree of global warming (5). Fig. 4 uses this range together with a best estimate for climate sensitivity of 3 °C (5) to estimate lower limits to eventual sea level rise due to thermal expansion alone. Fig. 4 shows that even with zero emissions after reaching a peak concentration, irreversible global average sea level rise of at least 0.4–1.0 m is expected if 21st century CO2 concentrations exceed 600 ppmv and as much as 1.9 m for a peak CO2 concentration exceeding 1,000 ppmv. Loss of glaciers and small ice caps is relatively well understood and is expected to be largely complete under sustained warming of, for example, 4 °C within 500 years (46). For lower values of warming, partial remnants of glaciers might be retained, but this has not been examined in detail for realistic representations of glacier shrinkage and is not quantified here. Complete losses of glaciers and small ice caps have the potential to raise future sea level by 0.2–0.7 m (46, 47) in addition to thermal expansion. Further contributions due to partial loss of the great ice sheets of Antarctica and/or Greenland could add several meters or more to these values but for what warming levels and on what time scales are still poorly characterized. Sea level rise can be expected to affect many coastal regions (48). While sea walls and other adaptation measures might combat some of this sea level rise, Fig. 4 shows that carbon dioxide peak concentrations that could be reached in the future for the conservative lower limit defined by thermal expansion alone can be expected to be associated with substantial irreversible commitments to future changes in the geography of the Earth because many coastal and island features would ultimately become submerged. Discussion: Some Policy Implications It is sometimes imagined that slow processes such as climate changes pose small risks, on the basis of the assumption that a choice can always be made to quickly reduce emissions and thereby reverse any harm within a few years or decades. We have shown that this assumption is incorrect for carbon dioxide emissions, because of the longevity of the atmospheric CO2 perturbation and ocean warming. Irreversible climate changes due to carbon dioxide emissions have already taken place, and future carbon dioxide emissions would imply further irreversible effects on the planet, with attendant long legacies for choices made by contemporary society. Discount rates used in some estimates of economic trade-offs assume that more efficient climate mitigation can occur in a future richer world, but neglect the irreversibility shown here. Similarly, understanding of irreversibility reveals limitations in trading of greenhouse gases on the basis of 100-year estimated climate changes (global warming potentials, GWPs), because this metric neglects carbon dioxide’s unique long-term effects. In this paper we have quantified how societal decisions regarding carbon dioxide concentrations that have already occurred or could occur in the coming century imply irreversible dangers relating to climate change for some illustrative populations and regions. These and other dangers pose substantial challenges to humanity and nature, with a magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tussing 2008 [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The impetus behind these efforts on the part of the U.S. Government in general, and its military in particular, is not totally altruistic. More and more we are awakening to the realization that regional stability is directly impacted by environmental issues. Droughts in Central Africa signify dangers and suffering that will not be contained by political boundaries. When catastrophic events, like the earthquake in Pakistan, the tsunami off of Indonesia, or the hurricane in Honduras, wreak havoc on congested areas, they can destabilize an entire region. Ecological disasters like that we see in the Caspian Sea region threaten to trigger a cataclysmic series of events that could result in human suffering, deprivation and, ultimately, conflict. Doing something now can head off trouble later. Better community planning may prevent migration crises. Exposing, understanding, and preventing the neglect or deliberate abuse of the environment can fend off disaster. In short, environmental disaster is being recognized as a precursor to regional instability; and in today’s world of globalization, regional instability is a precursor to global instability. Fortunately, realization of shared threats and shared concerns has led to initiatives towards regional cooperation in every combatant theater. These initiatives focus on shared means of identification, prevention, mitigation, and (when required) response to both manmade and natural disasters. For almost a decade, the U.S. Army War College’s Center for Strategic Leadership, under the direction of Dr. Kent Hughes Butts, has partnered with the combatant commands, USAID, and organizations like the Woodrow Wilson Center’s Environmental Change and Security Program, to bring together regional representatives around the world to address these issues.4 The types of lessons that have come out of these and similar efforts have reinforced the role of the military not only in disaster response, but in disaster preparedness. Theater Security Cooperation Programs (TSCPs) sponsored by all of the combatant commands have planted the notion that in addition to their traditional skill sets in communication, logistics, and security, the benefits derived from the military’s proficiency in planning and strategic policy development further recommends them to these efforts. A vital component of the combatant commander’s resources towards these ends is his Joint Interagency Coordination Group (JIACG) which houses governmental and, occasionally, nongovernmental representatives from outside of DoD. These representatives serve as key advisers to the combatant commander in understanding and coordinating the combined capabilities of their organization, identifying synergies and efficiencies, and ensuring to a far greater degree their optimal employment in times of crises. In the past, the military has looked upon disaster response as a necessary function, but not one that was particularly welcomed. The concern over diverting attention, manpower, and resources away from the “traditional role” of the uniformed services no doubt served as the foundation for that reticence. But times have clearly changed. Environmental security and disaster prevention, response, and recovery are now looked upon as acceptable military missions in that they are viewed as essential elements of regional stability. Specific programs devoted to these concerns, such as USPACOM’s Disaster Preparedness Mitigation Assessment program, USCENTCOM’s Disaster Prepar edness Program, and USPACOM’s Disaster Relief Response Process are taking shape in every theater. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tussing 2008 [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In emulation of the American effort, other countries’ governments and their militaries are seeking their own civil-military synergies. Most governmental organizations responsible for environment and disaster response are relatively understaffed and under resourced, lacking manpower to undertake the activities necessary to efficiently accomplish these broad-based missions. The military, by working with these organizations, allows them to accomplish a great deal more. In the process, militaries that have been a source of suspicion and fear in earlier times are being rightfully cast as servants and protectors in the eyes of their own people. Finally, developing regional response capabilities to address a set of common concerns may serve as a foundation for other cooperative endeavors. Countries that would otherwise never gather around a negotiation table are currently engaged in regional efforts to forecast, mitigate, and if necessary respond to cataclysmic natural disasters. Constrained resources have themselves provided the impetus for greater cooperation, and a judicious division of labor in preparing for these calamities is being directed at producing synergies and eliminating redundancies in providing for the common needs of a region’s citizenry. As is frequently said, much has been done, and much remains to be done. But as the U.S. Government attempts to come to terms with an evolving list of environmental issues, its military must be counted upon as an essential component to any solution. Before an event, the military represents the most tested entity for operational and strategic planning in the country’s inventory. During the event, our uniformed forces can assume a responsive posture that cannot be duplicated in terms of manpower, capacity, timeliness, or capabilities. Following an event, the armed services will be hard to match in terms of what they bring to the field in restoring essential services, and setting the conditions for long-term recovery. But little of the military’s vast potential in meeting these demands will be effectively brought to bear without understanding on both sides of the civil-military framework of how it should and should not be employed. In the final analysis, the responsibility for that decision lies solely in the camp of the civil authorities. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lack of effective climate data means US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010 [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate change will likely exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, water scarcity and extreme weather events in the United States and around the world, with significant implications for national and global security. These changes could increase the need for humanitarian and disaster relief, as well as threats to security emanating from already weak or failing states. DOD is currently study­ing locations where climate change could worsen trends such as drought and increased frequency and intensity of storms. DOD recognizes the need to better understand where these trends will be most acute in order to prepare for possible U.S. military deployments to provide humanitarian and disaster assistance, as well as to prepare the mili­tary for possible climate-induced flashpoints.5 National security professionals, and the military in particular, have a vested interest in under­standing how climate change could affect the operating environment in regions where they have personnel, infrastructure and equipment. For instance, changes in the operating environ­ment have the potential to interfere with or incapacitate military installations and equipment vital to mission effectiveness (i.e., the military’s ability to complete its missions), including train­ing ranges, forward operating bases and military aircraft, vehicles and personnel. While understanding climate science is and will continue to be essential to the national security community, the implications of not integrating climate science into regular decision making processes should not be overstated. The U.S. gov­ernment, and in particular the national security community, is resilient and capable of operating under uncertainty and adapting to change. But adapting in response to, rather than in advance of, projected climatic changes would likely be less effective and more costly in both economic and human terms. The military, development and dip­lomatic communities may require long lead times to develop new capabilities, strategies and trained personnel – and position them appropriately – for the future security environment. If these commu­nities do not integrate climate science into their decision making today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010 [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the proliferation of new tools (e.g., climate satellites and advanced computer models) and data acquisition systems, there will be no short­age of climate information (especially data related to present conditions and short-term trends). The question for the national security community is whether its unique needs will be met. Since the community has not traditionally based decisions on climate change projections or assessments, there are few processes in place to ensure that the necessary information will be available when it is needed and in a form that is useful. In particular, many national security decision makers require “actionable” data, or data that can be used to generate requirements, plans, strategies, training and materiel. They need to know where to dedicate resources. Actionable climate-related data requires marrying physical and social science data to forecast the national security implications of climate change. While many national security decision makers will find biophysical data useful in order to hedge against specific impacts of climate change (e.g., sea level rise at naval installations), others will need more targeted information about how biophysi­cal changes will influence existing social trends, such as ethnic tensions, economic prosperity and political dissension. DOD noted in the 2010 QDR that, “While climate change alone does not cause conflict, it may act as an accelerant of instability or conflict, placing a burden to respond on civilian institutions and militaries around the world.”28 For example, an important question for operational planners to consider could be how climate change could exacerbate water scarcity in Yemen, and how this might contribute to political unrest, a fractured civil society, al Qaeda recruit­ment and state weakness or failure. Current biophysical climate data lack the level of detail, fidelity or appropriate spatial and temporal scal­ing with social science data necessary to answer many of the types of questions that national secu­rity professionals need to ask. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All their turns are inevitable - Zero Chances of willful US restraint – we’ll inevitably be engaged globally – the only question is effectiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Horowitz and Shalmon ‘9 (Michael, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci.—U. Pennsylvania, Dan, Senior Analyst—Lincoln Group and Graduate Student—Georgetown U., Orbis, “The Future of War and American Military Strategy”, 53:2, ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is important to recognize at the outsettwo key points about United States strategy and the potential costs and benefits for the United States in a changing security environment. First, the United States is very likely to remain fully engaged in global affairs. Advocates of restraint or global withdrawal, while popular in some segments of academia, remain on the margins of policy debates in Washington D.C. This could always change, of course. However, at present, it is a given that the United States will define its interests globally and pursue a strategy that requires capable military forces able to project power around the world. Because ‘‘indirect’’ counter-strategies are the rational choice for actors facing a strong state’s power projection, irregular/asymmetric threats are inevitable given America’s role in the global order.24 </span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DSCOVR solves-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A. Calibration </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Williams 2008 [Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, rhyme nor reason, in solitary confinement in an air conditioned prison box somewhere outside Washington, DC. The sentence was long-term incarceration by the Bush Administration. The crime was the Administration’s fear of DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate Observatory) being a potential climate change whistle-blower and witness to human crimes against Earth. We are not reporting on a human prisoner of course, but a real prisoner nonetheless. DSCOVR has been locked away for the last 7 years, with little explanation for why an already paid for and completed US$100 million high-tech spacecraft should be left un-launched, especially when that spacecraft was designed to detect, measure and monitor Earth’s atmosphere, land and oceans for climate change. The DSCOVR spacecraft was designed to orbit at the L1 Lagrangian point, a gravity-neutral point 937 thousand miles (1.5 million kilometers) from the Earth toward the Sun, from where it could gaze at the entirety of the sunlit side of Earth, 24hours a day, 7 days a week. The mission had multiple objectives but one was to measure Earth’s absorption and emission of heat energy which is largely driven by cloud cover, snow cover, atmospheric conditions and the Earth’s ambient temperature. All these factors affect the albedo, the heat radiation exchange between Earth, the Sun and deep space. The information is critical to calibrate climate models, the ozone layer and global climate change in general. Dr. Jonah Colman, a climate modeler at Los Alamos National Laboratory, said in a Seed Magazine interview that "the availability of DSCOVR for inter-comparison between other measurements" would reconcile discrepancies in data from low-Earth orbit satellites. "Albedo is incredibly important," he added. "It can change quickly, and we currently do not have a direct method for measuring it. DSCOVR would have given us that". Other prominent climatologists also spoke out in its favor. There were some dark moments in DSCOVR’s history, perhaps political intrigue and maybe even some ill-informed engineering decisions, like proposing to launch it from the Space Shuttle instead of an expendable rocket like most other probes that leave Earth’s orbit. DSCOVR started out under another name, Triana, the Columbus' voyage sailor who first sighted the New World. Al Gore supported the project in 1998 hoping that it would broadcast real-time images of Earth to encourage interest in the environment. NASA seemed to cancel the project once and for all, in January 2006, even though the Ukraine offered to launch it for free. NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) was interested in having DSCOVR in space to monitor solar activity. The project's future remains uncertain. From the L1 vantage point, the spacecraft would offer an un-interrupted monitoring of Earth, giving scientific data as well as a visual view of Earth so that we could log in to the internet and gaze in wonder at our beautiful planet but also see the harm we are doing to it, ourselves, and our fellow planet’s inhabitants. Satellites in geo-synchronous, or low earth orbit, see only the same portion Earth all the time, or mere snap-shots. The geo-synchronous satellites do not have a very good view angle to include the poles either. DSCOVR would truly have given us a global view of our home world, much like the Apollo 8 astronauts did 40 years ago with their famous Earthrise image that has been credited with giving environmentalism a great boost in the 1970s. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">B. Integration</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Valero 2007 [Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]</span>] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The L-1 and L-2 Earth-Sun Lagrange points mark positions where the gravitational pull of the Earth and Sun precisely equals the centripetal force required to rotate with the Earth about the Sun with the same orbital period as the Earth. Therefore, a satellite maintained at or near one of these Lagrange points would keep the same relative position to the Sun and the Earth and be able to observe most points on the planet as the Earth rotates during the day. L-1 and L-2 are of particular interest because a satellite at either location can easily be maintained near the Sun-Earth line and views, respectively, the entire daytime hemisphere or the entire nighttime hemisphere. Synoptic, high temporal-resolution observations would be obtained as every point on the planet transits from sunrise to sunset (L-1) or from sunset to sunrise (L-2). A pair of deep-space observatories, one at L-1 and one at L-2, could simultaneously observe almost the entire Earth's surface and atmosphere. Such unique attributes are incorporated in the Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) that will systematically observe climate drivers (radiation, aerosols, ozone, clouds, water vapor) from L-1 in a way not possible with other satellites. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The combination of Solar Lagrange Points (SLPs), LEO, and GEO satellites would certainly provide a powerful observational tool as well as enriched data sets for Earth sciences. Such synergism is greatly enhanced when one considers the potential of utilizing LEO, GEO, and SLPs satellites as an integrated observational system. For example, a satellite at L-1 will view the Earth plus the Moon while simultaneously having in its field of view (at one time or another) all Earth-orbiting satellites. This view offers the opportunity to use the Moon as a calibration reference that can in turn be shared with all other Earth observation satellites. In other words, the deep-space observatory can become an important link between LEO and GEO satellites while at the same time providing the data necessary to build an integrated Earth observational system. Such synergism would certainly help advance Earth sciences and greatly enhance the return for the nation's investment in space. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A synergistic, integrated system composed of LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. Data Gaps</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 [Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange points are 1.5 million km from Earth along the Earth-Sun line (Figs. 1, 2). Objects at L1 and L2 experience the same gravitational force as the Earth itself, and thus become new “planets” with the same orbital period as Earth. The points have saddle-point gravitational instabilities, but even current spacecraft have enough fuel and thruster authority to stationkeep for five years or more. From L1 or L2, the Earth occupies almost the same 0.5° FOV as the Sun does from Earth—although slightly smaller since the rim of the Sun is visible from L2 (an advantage for limb scanning!). The full-disk view of the Earth from L1 and L2 holds tremendous potential for Earth science. Both L1 and L2 have been occupied by space science missions, but not by any Earth science mission. NASA’s $100M Triana (http://triana.gsfc.nasa.gov) was to be the first Earth observing platform at L–1, but became mired in political wrangling and now sits in storage with no scheduled launch date. The L1 point is towards the Sun and provides a full-disk view of the sunlit half of the Earth; the L2 point is away from the Sun and provides a complementary view of the night side of the Earth. Twin observatories at L1 and L2 can observe every point on Earth once a minute—true synoptic coverage, the weather forecaster’s dream! (Compare this with the five geostationary weather satellites which view the Earth to 60° latitude once every 15 min, or the 24 polar orbiting satellites required to obtain half-hourly coverage of the whole Earth.) This combination of global synoptic coverage and rapid temporal sampling allows the study of diurnal cycles and short-lived events. Precise long-term calibration using the Moon allows the measurement of delicate global changes unobservable with any current satellites. Not everything can be done from L1 and L2, of course. The antennas required to do microwave or radar remote sensing, for example, would be immense. But ultraviolet, visible, near-IR and thermal-IR remote sensing from L1/L2, while extremely challenging, are all within current technological capabilities. (Indeed, the challenge of measuring from L1/L2 creates technical spinoffs that benefit all spaceborne Earth observation.) Thus, the view to take is that each vantage point will do what it does best: some remote sensing now done from low Earth (LEO) and geostationary (GEO) orbits can better be done from L1/L2, while LEO and GEO are more appropriately used for complex instruments that may not work well so far from Earth. Moreover, some observing tasks are best done by constellations of robot aircraft and Ultra-Long Duration Balloons (ULDB’s). L1 and L2 observatories are essential components of an emerging integrated multi-perspective approach to observing all elements of the Earth system. These multiple perspectives range from at and below the Earth’s surface, to robot aircraft, to ULDB’s, to satellite formations in LEO and GEO, out to L1 and L2. The National Academy report [1] on Triana states: “Perhaps Triana’s most important contribution ... is the potential for using L1 observations of Earth to integrate data from multiple spaceborne as well as surface and airborne platforms in a self-consistent global database... Data from L1 may be useful for cross-calibrating independent observations…(see Fig. 3). Moreover, because of its large spatial coverage and temporal continuity (Fig. 4), data from L1 can be used to fill in data gaps left by other networks and spaceborne pla</span>

Scenario 1 is Africa
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smith 2007 [Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deployment of military forces will be limited most likely to two key situations: interdiction operations and migrant processing (including repatriation) operations. Interdiction operations, as noted earlier, are already a common occurrence in many parts of the world. In addition, migrant processing and repatriation operations have occurred in the context of large-scale migration emergencies. The U.S. military response to the Haitian and Cuban exodus of 1994 encompassed both of these elements; consequently, these operations may occur simultaneously in the same region or as part of a single migration episode. A third scenario might be stabilization operations, particularly when a climate change-induced disaster generates the potential for mass migration. Africa, for instance, is expected to assume greater strategic importance to the United States, China and other major powers in the 21st century, primarily because of its oil and other critical resources. However, climate change is also likely to serve as a potential destabilizing force that will complicate engagement between major powers and African states. A report collectively issued in 2005 by key environmental NGOs argued that Africa is on the front line of climate change and that the disruption caused by the phenomenon ‘‘is having a dire effect on many people.’’54 In Nigeria, considered an anchor state in Western Africa, climate variability has helped to induce competition for resources among rival communal groups, thus increasing the potential for violence. Theoretically, effective institutional or military responses could ameliorate the conditions that might spur internal population displacements or acute, disruptive international migration. However, countries have tended to respond to mass migration crises rather than attempt to prevent them. Similarly, states have been willing to fund humanitarian relief rather than engaging in peacekeeping or peacemaking efforts. This may be related to lack of political will; yet by allowing the crisis to grow, states must contend with large-scale migration, which creates its own set of humanitarian challenges, particularly for neighboring states that struggle with their own economic and demographic problems. As the Haitian and Cuban exodus of 1994 demonstrated, large-scale migration events can cause fear and a sense of threat within the receiving state, which can then generate additional political pressure on governments to engage military forces in a reactive manner. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deutsch ’02 [Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes that a nuclear war is most likely to start in Africa. Civil wars in the Congo (the country formerly known as Zaire), Rwanda, Somalia and Sierra Leone, and domestic instability in Zimbabwe, Sudan and other countries, as well as occasional brushfire and other wars (thanks in part to "national" borders that cut across tribal ones) turn into a really nasty stew. We've got all too many rabid tigers and potential rabid tigers, who are willing to push the button rather than risk being seen as wishy-washy in the face of a mortal threat and overthrown. Geopolitically speaking, Africa is open range. Very few countries in Africa are beholden to any particular power. South Africa is a major exception in this respect - not to mention in that she also probably already has the Bomb. Thus, outside powers can more easily find client states there than, say, in Europe where the political lines have long since been drawn, or Asia where many of the countries (China, India, Japan) are powers unto themselves and don't need any "help," thank you. Thus, an African war can attract outside involvement very quickly. Of course, a proxy war alone may not induce the Great Powers to fight each other. But an African nuclear strike can ignite a much broader conflagration, if the other powers are interested in a fight. Certainly, such a strike would in the first place have been facilitated by outside help - financial, scientific, engineering, etc. Africa is an ocean of troubled waters, and some people love to go fishing. Asia is a close second, due to the competition of major powers. For example, in an Indo-Paki confrontation, China may be tempted to side with Pakistan, since China and India are major nuclear powers sharing a long border. However, the Asian powers are basically stable internally, at least for now. The things to watch for are domestic economic and political instability in a nuclear power, the spread of nuclear weapons to new countries and new national antagonisms and great-power ties either weak or nonexistent enough to enable opportunistic alliances and destabilization, or strong enough that the great powers feel compelled to follow their client states.</span>

Scenario 2 is Indo-Pak
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US military is key to solve Indo-Pak water wars, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powers</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baker 2010 [Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps nowhere is this more concerning than in South Asia. Aside from floods in Pakistan, consider the ramifications of years of flooding due to the rapid melting of glaciers in the Himalayas. Those mountains are a primary source of water for people in Nepal, India, China, Pakistan, and Bangladesh; flooding damages crops, carries water-borne disease, and forces migration. If the glaciers completely melt, the region's rivers will experience considerably lower flow and could see a far worse fate: "desertification." The Indus River is particularly critical: It's Pakistan's longest river, but it flows from the Himalayas and then through India before reaching Pakistan. Pakistan is guaranteed a certain amount of water through the Indus River Treaty, but India still controls that flow. Add to that tension the risk of rising sea levels forcing the migration of millions of people living along the coastal regions of Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh, and the picture turns even darker. If catastrophes resulting from these sorts of climate change aren't handled through multinational cooperation early on, they may spark intense competition for water resources, humanitarian relief, and international aid funds. These threats could also draw into question the territorial integrity of the region's states--among which are three nuclear powers. The United States needs to begin a consultative process with other states' security and relief agencies on how to mount rapid responses to such irregular challenges, or it could face the tricky prospect of deescalating tensions amidst the threat of climate-induced state collapse.The State Department and the Office of Foreign Disaster will have to take the lead on these sorts of challenges, bringing to bear their experience in humanitarian relief and diplomacy. But OFDA and State can't do it alone. Washington needs to give serious attention to the ability of the military services to create global partnerships that can lend credible support to meeting the challenges posed by climate change.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Causes extinction – climactic shifts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Starr and King 2009 [Steven and Peter, Senior Scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility based at the University of Missouri, research associate in Government and International Relations and convener of the West Papua Project in the Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies (CPACS) at the University of Sydney, 7-31-2009, Nuclear suicide, http://www.abc.net.au/unleashed/28772.html]</span>
Unfortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the nuclear weapon states apparently remain oblivious to the climatic, ecological and biological consequences of nuclear war</span>. No "environmental impact statement" has ever been created for the US or Russian nuclear weaponry, which is one of the reasons why there still are 22,000 intact nuclear weapons in their deployed and reserve arsenals.
However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">new peer-reviewed studies done at several US universities predict the detonation of even a tiny fraction of the global nuclear arsenal will result in major changes in the global climate and massive destruction of the stratospheric ozone layer</span> (which protects the Earth from deadly UV light).
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even a "regional" nuclear conflict between India and Pakistan</span>, fought with 100 Hiroshima-size weapons, <span style="text-decoration: none;">is predicted to loft five million tons of smoke above cloud level; there it would block about 10 per cent of warming sunlight from reaching the surface of the Northern Hemisphere</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">This would produce average surface temperatures colder than any experienced for the last 1000 years.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The smoke would remain in the stratosphere for more than a decade and seriously impact global climate.</span> It would probably be too cold to grow wheat in Canada for several years; grain exports would likely cease from grain-exporting nations and global nuclear famine would result.
Within a few years, <span style="text-decoration: none;">most of the already-hungry human populations could perish</span>, and the populations of any nation dependent upon grain imports would be at risk.
One hundred Hiroshima-sized bombs contain about one half of one percent (0.05 per cent) of the explosive power of the deployed and operational nuclear arsenals of the US and Russia. The new studies predict that a war fought with any significant fraction of these arsenals would cause catastrophic changes in the global climate that would virtually eliminate growing seasons for a decade or more.
The US and Russia now have 900 missiles armed with 2200 strategic nuclear warheads on high-alert which can be launched with only a few minutes warning, and another 5330 deployed warheads available for use within an hour or less.
According to a December, 2008, article in Physics Today, the detonation of 4400 of these warheads in urban areas would cause up to 180 million tons of soot from burning cities to rise into the stratosphere.
The smoke would block about 70 per cent of sunlight in the Northern Hemisphere and 35 per cent of sunlight in the Southern Hemisphere from reaching the surface of the Earth.
The resulting nuclear darkness would cause global Ice Age weather conditions virtually overnight.
Minimum daily temperatures in the large agricultural regions of the Northern Hemisphere would drop below freezing for at least one to three years. It would become colder than it was 18,000 years ago at the height of the last Ice Age.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Most humans and large animals would starve to death.</span>
It is critically important that this information make its way into the general debate about the abolition of nuclear weapons.
Yet even within the NGO community, there has been little or no mention of these studies which predict nuclear war is suicide for the human race.
In fact, conventional wisdom now appears to assume that the US-Russian arsenals are somehow "safe from use". This deadly sense of complacency is reflected in the recent position paper by the prestigious Council on Foreign Relations, "US Nuclear Weapons Policy", which states in its preface that ". . the world no longer lives under the threat of a global nuclear holocaust".
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The failure to honestly evaluate the environmental consequences of nuclear war has created a near-universal failure to recognise and acknowledge that nuclear arsenals constitute a self-destruct mechanism for humanity.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Water sharing is the only scenario for nuclear conflict.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bakshi and Trivedi 2011[Gitanjali and Sahiba, Project Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit at the Strategic Foresight Group and Joint Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit., “The Indus Equation, June 2011, http://www.strategicforesight.com/110617.pdf]</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pakistan’s primary interest in Kashmir is to secure its major water resources</span> as the headwaters of the Western Rivers are located here. J&K is often described as the ‘jugular vein’ of Pakistan. “<span style="text-decoration: none;">India has captured the jugular veins of Pakistan</span> for the last 63 years <span style="text-decoration: none;">in order to inflict destruction upon Pakistan but Pakistani leaders are not concerned about the seriousness of this issue. Pakistan should convey to India that a war is possible on the issue of water and this time war will be nuclear one</span>.” - Nawa-i-Waqt Editorial, 4 April, 2011. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Jammu and Kashmir is considered an integral part of Pakistan’s food, water and power security. Water from J&K would provide much needed water for irrigation to Punjab and Sindh and alleviate tensions between these two provinces; it would also provide more irrigable land for Pakistan’s growing demand for wheat</span>. Also, the viability of dam sites decreases at the lower end of the Western Rivers of the Indus with a much larger chance of silting. In J&K the flow of the rivers are strong and the estimated hydropower potential of the state is 20,000MW. Pakistan’s combined potential is 40,000MW, so J&K could technically increase Pakistan’s hydro-power potential by 33%. “<span style="text-decoration: none;">Agreement on Kashmir, the source of water, on which Pakistan’s life and death depends, is vital otherwise nuclear war is hanging as the sword of Damocles’</span>.” - Former IRSA Chairman Eng. Fateh Gandapur, 24 February 2011. India is not allowed to harness this potential, however, as it can only build run-of-the-river projects in J&K, according to the provisions stipulated in the IWT. If it is able to take over the area, Pakistan will not be bound by such restrictions and the Chenab River has tremendous potential for hydel generation. As elucidated in SFG’s 2005 report – ‘The Final Settlement’ - Pakistan can only secure complete control over the Chenab waters if it secures control over certain parts of Jammu as a large part of the catchment area of the Chenab River lies in Jammu.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Warming causes Indo-Pak war, disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IPS 2010 [Inter Press Service, January 18, "India/Pakistan: Reduced Himalayan snowfall could spark water war" http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/ips/14ecc8996051f75493d532d312e580ae.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SRINAGAR , Jan 18 (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/|IPS]]</span>) - The declining snow cover and receding glaciers in the Himalayan state of Jammu and Kashmir could trigger renewed hostilities between India and Pakistan, neighbouring states in the South Asian region that are at odds on a host of issues, experts warn. The two countries share the Indus River, one of the longest rivers in the world. The river rises in southwestern Tibet and flows northwest through the Himalayas. It crosses into the disputed Kashmir region, mending its way to the Indian and Pakistani-administered areas of the territory. Pakistan and India have long been embroiled in a territorial dispute over Kashmir, but have so far managed to uphold a World Bank-mediated Indus Water Treaty (IWT) that provides mechanisms for resolving disputes over water sharing. Any drastic reduction in the availability of water in the region has the potential of causing a war between the hostile south Asian neighbors, experts said. Kashmir is located in the northwest region of the Indian subcontinent. It covers the Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir and the Pakistani-administered northern areas and "Azad" Kashmir province. Aksai Chin and Trans-Karakoram Tract are occupied by China. Based on scientific findings released last December, the snow cover in Jammu and Kashmir is declining while temperature is rising. The findings were the results of a study conducted by senior scientist H. S. Negi and his colleagues, and were published in the ‘Journal of Earth System Sciences', a bimonthly science publication in India. The findings were based on 20 years worth of climatic condition data, covering the periods 1988-89 and 2007-08, and was undertaken during the winter periods between November and April of 2004–05, 2005–06 and 2006–07, using multi-temporal sensor data. "Snow cover monitoring was carried out to evaluate the region-wise accumulation and ablation pattern of snow cover in the Pir Panjal and Shamshawari ranges of Kashmir valley," said Negi. "The study shows reduction in the areal extent of seasonal snow cover and rising trend of maximum temperature in three winters for the entire Kashmir valley." Negi and his team found that the total snowfall in the winter of 2004-05 was 1,082 centimetres across the valley, which declined to 968 centimetres during the period 2005-06 and reduced further to 961 centimetres between 2006 and 2007. "February, the second month of maximum snowfall, showed rapid fluctuation, with 585 centimetres in 2004-05 compared to 207 centimetres in 2005-06 and 221 centimetres in 2006-07," said the scientists, adding that the temperatures remained more than zero degree Celsius during winters, except for January-February 2004-05 and January 2006 against a normal sub-zero temperature. Unlike the Eastern Himalayan rivers such as the Brahmaputra, which are mainly rain-fed, most of the water that goes to the Indus river comes from snowmelt, which includes glacial melt. Global warming-induced changes in climate patterns have adversely affected, among others, snowmelt runoff patterns. "The Indus water system is the lifeline for Pakistan, as 75 to 80 percent of water flows to Pakistan as melt from the Himalayan glaciers. This glacier melt forms the backbone of irrigation network in Pakistan, with 90 percent of agricultural land being fed by the vastly spread irrigation network in Pakistan, one of the largest in the world," said Dr Irshad Muhammad Khan, executive director of Global Change Impacts Studies Centre in Pakistan. Any disruption of water flow would cause a grave impact on agriculture produce in Pakistan, he said. "Until now, the Indus Water Treaty has worked well, but the impact of climate change would test the sanctity of this treaty," Dr Parvez Amir, a senior economist, told IPS. Under the treaty signed in 1960, the two countries also share five tributaries of the Indus river, namely, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej. The agreement grants Pakistan exclusive rights over waters from the Indus and its westward-flowing tributaries, the Jhelum and Chenab, while the Ravi, Beas and Sutlej rivers were allocated for India's use. "I think it is not only the matter of Indus water treaty between India and Pakistan but also the water-sharing treaties elsewhere in the world such as those in the Middle East that also face a severe threat in the form of climate change," said Dr Amir. According to Prof. Mohammad Sultan, who teaches Geography at Kashmir University, temperature in the region has shown disturbing trends over the last few decades. "From 1950 to 1975, the temperature had shown a cooling trend (0.2 below normal). But after 1975 there has been a warming trend (0.4 degree above normal), and it is continuing," he said. He said precipitation in the lower parts of Kashmir has declined by 1.2 centimetres in lower altitudes and 8 cm in higher altitudes beginning in 1975. "This disturbance is bound to impact the accessibility to water in the future," he said. Transboundary water sharing between India and Pakistan will become an "extremely difficult proposition as surface water would become a scarce commodity with the depletion of water reserves up in the mountains," said Prof Sultan.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitol Classic Finals -- DSKOVR</span>== 



PLAN



The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.





ADVANTAGE ONE IS CLIMATE DENIAL



The science behind warming is rock solid, all opposition is unscientific and funded by the oil industry. We are reaching a tipping point where denialism will no longer be acceptable for policymaking



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11 </span>



Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap]]</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the_american</span>__allergy__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader</span>__



__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NEW YORK (AP) — AND protect the habitat that sustains us."</span>__





__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, climategate has disabled movements against warming and the proliferation</span>__ nonscientific__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,</span>__ unfalsifiable__ is preventing us from addressing solutions



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Trenberth, ’11 [</span>Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>]



This article briefly summarizes my AND when it is in fact false.





The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR creates unprecedented proof against skepticism.



<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]]</span>)



<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The media missed the real story AND </span>discrepancies in our Earth observation instruments.





Climate change denial is complicit with the rejection of modern science – critics of social construction are risking billions of lives



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Berube, ’11</span> [Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature and Director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, where he teaches cultural studies and American literature, “The Science Wars Redux,”<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.democracyjournal.org/pdf/19/BERUBE.pdf]]</span>]



But what of Sokal’s chief postAND <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">even Heisenberg himself would be certain. </span>





Only verifiable scientific methods can prevent extinction – Alternative epistemologies refuse to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves alternative methodologies which destroy academic debate



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Coyne, 06</span> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential AND </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>





And climate denial is rooted in white supremacy – maintains privilege.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mandell 2008</span>



MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8 Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289



[*297] <span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Fear of AND </span>traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52





You have an ethical obligation to reject racism.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MEMMI</span>** Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000



Albert-; //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RACISM</span>//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165



<span style="background-color: yellow;">The struggle against racism will be AND </span>of the other suggests the real utility



of such sentiments. All things AND <span style="background-color: yellow;">, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>





And DSCOVR data creates environmental movements by harnessing the internet. Allows unprecedented interconnectedness and empathy.



**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2008</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, [[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span style="background-color: aqua;">a great boost</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span>





That’s critical to shift to biosphere consciousness and prevent extinction.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Rifkin 2010</span>



Jeremy, author of 'The Empathic Civilization: The Race to Global Consciousness in a World in Crisis,' and advisor to the European Union, 'The Empathic Civilization': Rethinking Human Nature in the Biosphere Era, 1-11-10, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jeremy-rifkin/the-empathic-civilization_b_416589.html]]</span>



<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The pivotal turning points in human AND in time to avert planetary collapse?</span>





ADVANTAGE TWO IS SPACE ENGAGEMENT



The affirmative is key to create a more genuine politics – The refusal to fund DSCOVR represents a failure of the democratic process – climate change denial has closed out the capacity of citizen participation via the refusal to engage in science



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wilholt 2006 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Torsten, assistant professor at the Philosophy Department of Bielefeld University, Scientific Autonomy and Planned Research: The Case of Space Science, Poiesis and Praxis 4 (4), 2006, 253-265. [[http://phillister.ub.uni-bielefeld.de/index.php/deliver/index/p/646/v/published/k/fulltext/f/spacescience.pdf]]]</span>



A second argument that might be AND to rest on yet another argument.





Lack of public engagement in space policy allows NASA to launch nuclear rockets.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span>



Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm]]</span>



As to why the use of AND <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">we can afford to take</span>."



The impact is extinction, accidents give every single person fatal lung cancer.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span>



Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm]]</span>



But if there is an accident AND 15 pounds of Plutonium-239.





Public engagement in space policy forces an end to drone use and the drive for space dominance.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wirbel and Sulzman 2009</span>



Loring and Bill, Citizens for Peace in Space, Colorado Springs/Global Network board members, From Space, No One Can Watch You Die, 9-28-9, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space4peace.org/uav/from%20space.htm]]</span>



Peace groups internationally are putting the AND <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">dominate the planet through unilateral control</span>.





Drones make racialized wars of choice inevitable and permanent – push button warfare.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wilcox 2009</span>



Lauren, PhD Candidate in PoliSci @ UMinnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Political Theory Colloquium, December 11, 2009, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.polisci.umn.edu/pdf/Body%20Counts%20Theory%20Colloquium.doc]]</span>



The increased precision of ‘smart AND high-tech targeting of terrorists.





Engagement in space policy solves your science bad turns – allows us to question power.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Valentino 1999 </span>[Mattio, Information, Technical Writing, Knowledge and Power: A Case Study of NASA's Cassini Project, Journal of Computer Documentation February 1999/Vol. 23, No. 1 (Peer reviewed), MA in Professional Communications from Clemson]



In layperson's terms, <span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">if you AND </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">more than a sharpened cynical wit</span>.





Debates about space policy are critical – institutional background.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friedensen 1999</span>



Victoria Pidgeon, <span class="st" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Program Executive for the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite at NASA, </span>Protest space : a study of technology choice, perception of risk, and space exploration, page 88, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-120899-134345/unrestricted/08chapter_5.PDF]]</span>



To bring R&D policyAND very stable and difficult to change."

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Glenbrooks - Climate Denial</span>== 

Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth
White supremacy is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
White Supremacy is the unnamed political AND <span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">political lingua franca of our times.</span>
It is this invisibility which makes modern racism so dangerous. Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span>Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America</span>//; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed with an AND to see this power at work.

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>__

The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap]]</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the_american</span>__allergy__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NEW YORK (AP) — AND protect the habitat that sustains us."</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]])</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They’re the conservative white men (AND <span class="underline">blogs serve to fan the flames</span>.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding</span>__ crucial __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick 8/31</span>/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span> [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">Anti-science ideology isn’t completely AND </span>by trying to discredit the science.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[*297] Fear of AND traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.binghamton.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1300963062371&returnToKey=20_T11559734102&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.307872.8645909542#n52|n52]]</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an</span>__ obligation __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to these populations</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">M</span>inority <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">R</span>ights <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">G</span>roups <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I</span>nternational April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span>[[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change is just beginning to AND for this than any other nation.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racist dichotomies grant states the power to exterminate – this is the root of all war</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Mendieta ‘02</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Eduardo Mendieta, , “To Make Live and to Let Die – Foucault and Racism. 2002</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is where racism intervenes, AND <span class="underline">and foes are biological in nature</span>.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These systematic harms of structural violence must come</span>__ before __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We live, equally immersed, AND [Gilligan, p. 196]</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The struggle against racism will be AND , but the stakes are irresistible.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Sumon and I advocate the following:</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based earth observation capabilities.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">White supremacy as the unnamed political system operates on more than a structural level – in debates through</span>__ traditional __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">policy discussions we have abdicated any discussion on the illusive invisibility of white supremacy – we have an</span>__ obligation __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to situate these discussions at the forefront</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charles-; The Racial Contract</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nationally, within these racial politiesAND <span class="underline">of transcontinental and intracontinental racial exploitation.</span></span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Any abdication of any discussion of the modern racial contract is </span>__not neutral __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– our traditional policy frameworks approach the world from a white epistemological basis of willful ignorance and forgetfulness – discussions of race are critical</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charles-; The Racial Contract</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, the Racial Contract requires AND establish and maintain the white polity<span class="underline"> .</span></span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The performance of the 1AC is critical to bring the necessary discussion of race to discussion of global warming – the environmental movement has</span>__ exemplified __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]]</span> [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But <span class="underline">as troubling as colorblindness can AND </span>the real lives being destroyed currently,</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">which are disproportionately of colorAND to weaken the fight for survival.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of</span>__ exposition __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– we must</span>__ constantly__ discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]</span>]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan AND get that out there, absolutely.


==Harvard Doubles== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We will begin this debate with a narrative</span>**

Thus the advocacy: TheUnited Statesfederal government should substantially increase its exploration and development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.
We advocate that the plan is a metaphor to the individuals of the debate community to move beyond their mesosphere, grow epistemologically beyond the traditional, policed system of education in the debate space. We must break through the mesosphere and fly past the sky to a new space, a new realm of knowledge production through a process of Conscientization so we can disrupt whiteness and create real social change.


Our framework for this debate round is who best engages in a consistent methodology for liberation of the oppressed through a three tier methodology of knowledge production to move beyond the mesosphere and reach outer space, the realm of critical consciousness
<span class="cite">Reid Brinkley ‘8</span><span class="cardChar" style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">YELLOW PART ONLY</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The process …s__tatus of oppression.__</span>


Performative pedagogy locates cultural power in the body and is a key methodology in breaking down white supremacy
Warren and Fassett ‘4 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[The Johns Hopkins University Press. All rights reserved Theatre Topics 14.2 (2004) 411-430</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|John T. Warren]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> is an assistant professor in the School of Communication Studies at Bowling Green State University, where he teaches courses in performance, culture, identity, and power. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|Deanna L. Fassett]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication Studies at San José State University, where she teaches courses in instructional communication and critical, feminist, and performative pedagogies.]</span>

Performative pedagogy<span class="underline">, as a method ….</span> invisibility of whiteness<span class="underline">.</span>


Whiteness has invaded the debate space and turned it into a dehumanizing, assimilating world that continues to shape future generations
Ricky Lee Allen 2004 [professor at the Universityof New Mexico’s Collegeof Education, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>
<span class="underline">Freire (1993) contends ….</span> attack on humanity itself.


WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY AS INTELLECTUALS TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE
<span class="cite">DR. CRENSHAW Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This essay explores the rhetorical dimensions of whiteness in public political discourse from an ideological perspective. It analyzes a debate between Carolyn Moseley Braun and Jesse Helms over a patent extension for the United Daughters of the Confederacy insignia containing a Confederate flag__. In this …. gender and class__.</span>

This White privilege is the unnamed political system that is the __modern world__ – we are all involved in a contractual relation to the state, a racial contract that lies out the __foundation__ of sociopolitical relations –We must aggressively __engage__ a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
White Supremacy is the unnamed <span class="underline">…. lingua franca of our times.</span>


We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION
DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">OSAJIMA 07 professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __The fact that__ these __young ….. critical consciousness.__</span>

THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">OSAJIMA07 professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __Conscientization__ for these … __actively changing it.__</span>


=Negative= 
==Stategies== 
===Bronx:=== 

Round 2: George Washington BC -- SPS
1NC: Spending, EU CP, Case
2NR: Spending, Case

Round 3: BCC MN -- Space Commons
1NC: T -- Humans, ASPEC, Courts, Race K, China Bashing, Case
2NR: Courts CP

Round 5: Beacon CR -- Earth Monitoring Satellites
1NC: T - Humans, Spending, EU CP, China Bashing, Case
2NR: EU CP, Spending, A little case

===Capitol Classic:=== 

Round 2: Bronx Science DL -- ORS
1NC: Near Space CP, Race K, T - Humans, Spending, Case
2NR: Race K

Round 4: University WU -- Metaphor Light Pollition/Aesthetic
1NC: T - Beyond, Framework, Race K, Spending, Case
2NR: Extra - T (It was on framework), Race K

Round 6: Lexington KZ -- SPS
1NC: Anchor Tenant w/ Coercion, T - Humans, Spending, Race K, T - Its, Case
2NR: CP w/ Coercion

Quarters: Centennial KM -- DSCOVR
1NC: China Bashing, T - Substantial, Race K, UN CP, Spending, Case
2NR: T - Substantial

===Glenbrooks:=== 

Round 1: Washington Rural KS -- Asteroids
1NC: T - Humans, Plan Flaw, Race K, UN CP, Payroll, Case
2NR: Plan Flaw

Round 4: Blake MM -- TSAT's
1NC: Extra-T, Race K, UN CP, Payroll, Case
2NR: Race K

Round 6: Alpharetta LP -- LSP
1NC: T - Humans, UN CP, Race K, Payroll, Case
2NR: Payroll and Case

Round 7: New Trier AC -- SPS
1NC: UN CP, T - Humans, Payroll, Race K, Case
2NR: Race K

===Ohio Valley=== 

Round 1: Alpharetta SL -- SPS
1NC: UN CP, Race K, T - Humans, Payroll, Case
2NR: Payroll and Case

Round 3: Vestavia YK -- Asteroid Mining
1NC: ASPEC, XO CP, UN CP, Payroll DA, Race K, Case
2NR: Payroll and Case

Round 5: Centennial MK <3 -- Critical EOS
1NC: Global/Local K, Payroll DA, UN CP, Framework, Black Feminism K, Case
2NR: Global/Local K

Doubles: New Trier MC -- SPS
1NC: T - Humans, UN CP, Race K, DSCOVR CP, Payroll DA, Case
2NR: UN CP

===Harvard:=== 

Round 1: Glenbrook South OT -- RAMOS
1NC: Russia Reciprocity CP, T Human, T Its, India Politics DA, PTC DA, Race K, Case Turns and D
2NR: India Politics DA and Case

Round 3: Henderson BS -- SPS
1NC: Race K, India Politics DA, UN CP
2NR: Race K

Round 6: National Cathedral SS -- Space as a Metaphor
1NC: Anthropocentrism K, Global/Local K
2NR: Global/Local K

Round 7: BCC MN -- Space Commons
1NC: UN CP, FW, T - Humans, India Politics DA, Inevitability K
2NR: FW/T Humans

===Lakeland=== 

Round 2: Centennial PP -- Critical EOS
1NC: T - Discourse, Politics, Announce Warming Real CP, Global/Local K, Indian Politics DA, Case Turns and Defense
2NR: Global/Local K

Round 4: Edgemont MX -- New USFG off the Planet Aff
1NC: Cap K, Framework, Case Defense and Turns
2NR: Framework

Round 5: Centennial HK -- EOS
1NC: Race K, Politics DA, T Humans, Ozone DA, Stratosats CP, Case Turns and Defense
2NR: Race K

Quarters: River Hill HL -- GLADIS
1NC: Race K, T Humans, Advantage CP, Russian Icebreakers DA, Case Turns and Defense
2NR: CP, Case Turns

Finals: Beacon BB -- Juniper Brown
1NC: Counter-Advocacy, Framework, Case Turns and Defense
2NR: Framework
=Counterplans= 
==EU Counterplan== 
TEXT: The European Union should fund the European Space Agency to __

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP solves the case</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brauer and Monte 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Development for the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>
The above described scenario suggests that the potential contribution ……<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.. </span>prototypes, demonstrators or space borne infrastructure components to serve defence requirements.
=Kritiks= 
==Race K== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 17.3333px;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">McQUAID </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">2k7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age....</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> This essay addresses the fight to make America’s space program—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 17.3333px;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how </span>__the ideology of white privilege...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 17.3333px;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">MEMMI </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions... but the stakes are irresistible.</span>__**
=Disadvantages= 
==Spending DA== 
**The US is on the __brink__ of another recession – we will stave it off for now, but new threats could break it**
**Miller and Chen, ’10-10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Oct 10, 2011, Rich Miller and Vivien Lou Chen, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://business.financialpost.com/2011/10/10/u-s-recession-threat-weakens/]]</span>]</span>

**__The U.S. has ....__**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">can be mutually supported.</span>

**That causes the US to lose its global credit rating – Moody’s will downgrade US debt**
**Panchuk, ‘11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms US triple-A rating, but risks remain”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.housingwire.com/2011/08/03/moodys-affirms-us-triple-a-rating-but-risks-remain]]</span>, SM]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moody's</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Investors Service ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moody's said.</span>__

**Another downgrade causes another recession**
**Goldwein 8-11-2011** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What are the....</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. government</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Independently, destroys US economic leadership and the status of the dollar**
**Raman 8-3-11** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Manikandan, International Business Times, U.S. Reaches Debt Deal: Is it Enough to Sustain AAA Rating?, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/191564/20110803/us-debt-ceiling-spending-cuts-debt-deal-aaa-rating-barack-obama-president-s-p-fitch-moodys-treasury.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the key question....</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">outlook deteriorates significantly. </span>

**Global nuclear war – US economic leadership sets the framework for international economic stability**
**Mandelbaum 2005**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the spread of ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">cars without gasoline.</span>__

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> [</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods .. deserves more attention. </span>
==China Bashing== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama not supporting china bashing now -- wont pass</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters, 10-12</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">-’11 (“Exclusive: China launches lobbying push on currency bill” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/12/us-usa-china-lobbying-newspro-idUSTRE79B5PX20111012]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">China has launched an intense lobbying effort in Washington to kill legislation that would punish it for its currency system, in the latest display of its more sophisticated approach to influence U.S. policy. A 12-member "Congressional Liaison Team" inside the Chinese embassy has been meeting with aides to key lawmakers, making phone calls to congressional offices and speaking to the White House on the issue, according to Chinese and U.S. officials. The Chinese embassy has also been paying a blue chip Washington law firm $35,…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> effort has become more sophisticated</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. They no longer complain about every bill that affects them. "They now realize some of the bills are not going anywhere," the aide said. These days, the aide said, Chinese diplomats visit Capitol Hill and "they come here and sit down and talk to you, but it's like any other country."</span>

**Any space program would cost political capital in this economic climate.**
**Powell ’09** chron.com, NASA's mission for billions more may be an uphill battle, September 12, Stewart Powell
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__NASA supporters ....__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">on condition of anonymity. </span>

Capital key to block passage
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palmer 2011</span>
Doug, Reuters, Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall, 9-2-11, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902
Republican opposition to ....<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to block it</span>.

Causes new Depression – 21st century Smoot Hawley act.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merry 10-13-11</span>
Robert W., editor of The National Interest and the author of books on American history and foreign policy, From Smoot-Hawley to the Yuan Controversy, National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/smoot-hawley-the-yuan-controversy-6006
On May 5, 1930......potentially ominous ramifications.

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merlini 2011</span>
Cesare, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs & fellow @ brookings, A Post Secular World, Survival, 53: 2, 117 — 130, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed ....<span style="font-size: 10pt;">influence and power</span>.