[[toc]]
=Contact info= 
Email us at [[mailto:jasmine1227@gmail.com|jasmine1227@gmail.com]] or [[mailto:eileenli22@gmail.com|eileenli22@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-size: 17px; line-height: 25px;">Woodward (this was read by Westminster MS)</span>== 
=1ac—inherency= 
**__CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY__**

**The Air Force is calling for improved ISR capabilities**
**Defence Watch 2/24** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Defense News Site (February 24, 2012, “Industry Briefed on U.S. Air Force ISR Needs – Asia Pacific A Focus, So Is Operating UAVs in An Aerial Threat Environment”, [[http://blogs.ottawacitizen.com/2012/02/24/industry-briefed-on-u-s-air-force-isr-needs-asia-pacific-a-focus-so-is-operating-uavs-in-an-aerial-threat-environment/]], DR. H)</span>

__The Air Force__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,... James said.</span>

=1ac—plan= 
**PLAN—**
The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance satellites using laser communication technology.

=1ac—china= 
**__CONTENTION 2 IS CHINA__**

**China will use lasers and jam satellites**
**Strategy Page 3/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a military news site, which was highlighted in FORBES Best of the WEB (StrategyPage.com, March 5, 2012, “China Secretly Seeks The High Ground”, [[http://www.strategypage.com/htmw/htspace/articles/20120305.aspx]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 5, 2012: </span><span class="Underline">The American DIA<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span></span>Killsat<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (killer satellite). </span>

<span class="Underline">**Surveillance satellites are the Achilles’ heel of US space assets—however perception links of the plan have been triggered**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kislyakov 11/28** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reporter at Russia Beyond The Headlines (Andrei Kislyakov, November 28, 2012, “The best offense is a good defense”, [[http://rbth.ru/articles/2011/11/28/in_future_star_wars_the_best_offense_is_a_good_defense_13821.html]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no doubt ...</span> U.S. Defense Department.

**China is developing offensive ISR capabilities—overcoming the US in ISR capabilities allows ASAT attacks and Taiwan war escalation**
Neill 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Head of the Asia security program at the Royal United Services Institute, a defense think tank in London (Alexander Neill, January 11, 2011, “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/world-asia-pacific-12154991) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite recent headlines reporting ...</span>__disaster of global proportions.__
**ISR satellite vulnerabilities tempt Chinese exploitation—this vulnerability will**<span class="cite">trigger a Taiwan war and continued ASAT usage</span>

<span class="cite"> Easton 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> M.A. in China studies from National Chengchi University in Taipei, and a B.A. in international studies from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Asia analyst in the China Security Affairs Group at the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), former research fellow at the Project 2049 Institute, where he conducted research on Chinese military space and missile programs (Ian Easton, “The Great Game in Space,” [[http://project2049.net/documents/china_asat_weapons_the_great_game_in_space.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One senior Air Force officer ...</span> __ASAT weapons could have.__

**US-China War over Taiwan goes nuclear—information solves**
Bush and O’Hanlon 07<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bush: senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and director of its Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, O'Hanlon: senior fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, specializes in U.S. defense strategy (Richard C. Bush, Michael O’Hanlon, “A War Like No Other: The Truth About China's Challenge to America”, p. 186, google books)</span>

If war resulted, ... sovereignty issues.

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons ...</span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> military conflict ever seen.</span>__
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
=1ac—bmd= 
**__CONTENTION 3 IS BMD__**

<span class="Underline">**Increased ISR sensors are vital for BMD success**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Global Security 7/21** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">news coverage of everything related to US and global security (July 21, 2011, “Space Based Radar (SBR) and Missile Defense”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/systems/sbr-md.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***Note: SBR is a type of ISR satellite (Space based radar)**</span>

**__The presently planned ,,,____the evolving situation.__**

Scenario 1: Electromagnetic Pulses

BMD prevents EMP’s which kill millions and lead to economic collapse
Cooper and Pfaltzfraff 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Henry F. Cooper was Chief US Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union (1985-1989) and was appointed the first civilian Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) director in 1990. Ambassador Cooper is Chairman of High Frontier, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, and of Applied Research Associates.. Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr., is President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies, The Fletcher School, Tufts University. He has advised key officials on military strategy, defense modernization, proliferation and counterproliferation issues, and arms control policy. He has lectured widely at government, industry, and academic forums in the United States and overseas. He has served on the International Security Advisory Board (ISAB), U.S. State Department. He is the Co-Chairman of the Independent Working Group. Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (Dr. Henry F. Cooper, Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr, “Countering the EMP Threat, The Role of Missile Defense” [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGWhitePaper.pdf]] NH)</span>**

**<span class="Underline"> The destruction</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and mayhem ...</span><span class="Underline"> withstand such an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

Global economic crisis causes war—statistics prove
**<span class="cite">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah Royal, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the answer to the first ...considered ancillary to those views.</span>**

Scenario 2: Iran

Iran war coming now
Kroenig 2/12 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">assistant professor of Government at Georgetown University and a Stanton Nuclear Security Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>**. **(Mathew Kroenig, February 12, 2012, “Time to Attack Iran”, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136917/matthew-kroenig/time-to-attack-iran, DR. H)**

**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">In early October,...</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">advancing nuclear program.</span>__**

Effective BMD can deter Iran
Gates 09 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the secretary of defense. (Robert M. Gates, September 19, 2009, “A Better Missile Defense for a Safer Europe”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/20/opinion/20gates.html?_r=2]], DR. H)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> First, to be clear,...put in Poland, as a back-up.</span>**

Iran war causes extinction
**Steinberg 07<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Sept. 25, </span>__retired CIA officer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> __"World War III has begun."__**


Iran will fight with CBWs
Allen 07 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in Biodefense from George Mason University after studying under the former top scientist for the Soviet biological weapons program , Cumberland School of Law, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Jacksonville State University, Master’s Degree in Political Science (Steven J. Allen, “Iran Chemical, Bio Weapons Threat Is Real”, [[http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/IranChemical-BioWeapon/2007/11/07/id/322122]], DR. H)</span>**

**__An attack on Iran could trigger horrific...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> world’s oil supply is shipped.</span>**

Bioweapons cause extinction
Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, __...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How slippery is this slope?</span>

=1ac—solvency= 
<span class="Underline">**CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY**</span>

**Laser technology is key to overcome interference issues**
**Mazalkova 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communication and Information Systems Department at the University of Defence (Marketa Mazalkova, August 2008, “The Laser Satellites Communications and Laser Noises”, [[http://www.wseas.us/e-library/transactions/communications/2008/27-726.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

__The optical space ...__ __acquisition, tracking and data transfer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (figure 1).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Lasers solve satellite jamming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Muholland and Cadogan 02** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Villanova University (J.E. Muholland, S.A. Cadogan, “Intersatellite laser crosslinks”, [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=532260]], DR. H)</span>

Intersatellite laser crosslinks<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ISL) </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and reduce acquisition time. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Laser communication technology is incredible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Quick 9/26** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director at Hawk Security and Surveillance System (Darren Quick, September 26, 2011, “NASA to demonstrate laser beam communications system”, [[http://www.gizmag.com/nasa-laser-communications-relay-demonstration/19946/]], DR. H)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Since the dawn of the space age, ...</span><span class="Underline"> of tens of gigabits per second</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span>

**__CONTENTION 3 IS NAVAL POWER__**

**ISR capabilities are vital for Naval power—an increase in bandwidth is necessary**
**Jean 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">M.A., Journalism, Columbia University, B.A., Cornell University, senior editor at National Defense Magazine (Grace Jean, August, “Drone Sensor Data Will Overload Networks, Navy Officials Warn,” National Defense Magazine, NDIA Business and Technology Magazine, August, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/August/Pages/DroneSensorDataWillOverloadNetworks,NavyOfficialsWarn.aspx)</span>

__The expected growth ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Adm. Gary Roughead, who is retiring. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Arctic territorial competition is increasing between 5 countries</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">*global warming is allowing resource exploitation to be possible fueling the competition</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Saran 2/1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Shyam Saran, Febuary 1, 2012, “India's stake in Arctic cold war”, [[http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/article2848280.ece]], DR. H)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The five nations which ring ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> waters of a hitherto forbidden zone.</span>
**Naval power is critical to preventing territorial conflict in the Arctic—reassures Canadian-US Arctic alliance**
**Posner 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eric, professor of law at the University of Chicago, is co-author of "The Limits of International Law, “The New Race for the Arctic” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB118610915886687045.html?mod=opinion_main_commentaries)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Melting polar ice and ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> the U.S. and Canada are natural allies.</span>__


**Left unchecked Arctic competition goes nuclear**

**Staples 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> __into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”__
**Sea power is vital to disaster relief**
**Winter, 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3/29, Donald, secretary of the Navy, CQ Congressional Testimony, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As we fight the Global War ...as much as it is about equipment.</span>

**Disasters are the most scenario of extinction**
**Sid Ahmed 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Analyst (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Jan 6-12, 2oo5, Al-Ahram Online, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])</span>

<span class="Underline">The human species ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17px;">***AEROSPACE**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Global development of SPS is inevitable – US inaction collapses aerospace competitiveness</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Matai 10</span> – <span style="font-size: 11px;">PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutions</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">DK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, [[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php]]</span>


**Mass investment into groundbreaking space development reverses this trend – only federal government certainty ensures private sector investment and long-term sustainability of the aerospace sector**

**Mankins 9**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Former NASA Scientist, managed numerous advanced space technology programs during his 25 years at NASA Headquarters and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and is widely known as an expert in space solar power</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology,” 5-18-2009, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1]]</span>


**This loss of leadership is destroying the U.S. defense industrial base – an investment in space solar power is necessary to revitalize aerospace research and development, workforce, and infrastructure development**

**NSSO, 7** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>


**Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to U.S. global hegemony**
**Walker et al, 02** - <span style="font-size: 11px;">Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]]</span>)</span>

**The impact is global conflict**
**Khalilzad 11 – Former US ambassador, former Professor @ Columbia**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Zalmay Khalilzad, PhD, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (2/8/11, National Review, “The Economy and National Security; If we don’t get our economic house in order, we risk a new era of multi-polarity,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]</span></span>


**Economic Leadership – Aerospace competitiveness drives economic growth – purely private sector approaches guarantee failure**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hernnstadt 8 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">– Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, [[http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html]]</span>


**Economic decline causes global war**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal 10 – Director of CTR</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

**It’s not enough to just boost aerospace leadership - SSP is the vital internal link between aerospace technological innovation and tangible benefits to the military that allow battlefield dominance**

**Ramos 2k** – <span style="font-size: 11px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span>)</span>


**Federal procurement is vital to building private sector investment in space – this will establish overall U.S. military, political and economic dominance globally**

**Richardson, 93** – <span style="font-size: 11px;">Brigadier General, US Air Force (Robert, “Solar Power: The Next ‘Great Leap Forward’”, The Journal of Social, Political and Economic Studies, Fall, p. 273-277)</span>


|| ***Space Control Advantage** ||

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Current levels of space vulnerability make conflict likely </span>
Pfaltzgraff ’09(**Robert L.,- President The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Inc. <span style="font-size: 11px;">“Space and U.S. Security” [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]]</span>)**

The U.S. FEAR of a space Pearl Harbor is enough for it to preemptively attack as long as the U.S. sees itself as vulnerable
Tellis, 07 **- <span style="font-size: 11px;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Ashley, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Current levels of vulnerability undermine conventional and nuclear deterrence, air power, readinessand spurring miscalculation, specifically over Taiwan </span>
Burke ’06 **<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Alan,- Lt. Col “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor” 4-17 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/|www.dtic.mil]]</span>)</span>**

Deterrence is key to prevent global war
Schneider 2008 **<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Mark, Senior Analyst – National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D. History – USC, Former Senior Officer in Positions relating to Arms Control and Nuclear Weapons Policy – DOD, Comparative Strategy, “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, 27:4, Ebsco)</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Nuclear deterrence is vital to check global nuclear and biological conflict </span>
IFPA ’10 (**The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis @ International Security Studies Program ofThe Fletcher School, Tufts University,- a conference report summarizing the consenus of experts at “Air, Space, & CyberspacePower in the 21st-Century” Prepared by Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. President, IFPA and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security StudiesThe Fletcher School, Tufts University)**


Bioweapons cause extinction

Ochs 2**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]</span>**


Space challengers increasing inevitably, US military and commercial assets are at risk of space attacks

Redifer, 11 **<span style="font-size: 11px;">- LtCol, USMC, paper submitted in fulfillment of a degree from the Air War College at Air University (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE ,” 2/16, </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11px;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=downloadpaper&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960&rs=PublishedSearch]]</span>**

Obama is still pursuing space weaponization
Burghardt 10 **<span style="font-size: 11px;">– Center of Research of Globalization, PhD (Tom Burghardt, May 11, 2010, The Militarization of Outer Space: The Pentagon's Space Warriors, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://www.spacewar.com/reports/The_Militarization_of_Outer_Space_The_Pentagon_Space_Warriors_999.html</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, DH)</span>**


SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, make them more survivable and reconstitute lost assets rapidly

Ramos 2k **– <span style="font-size: 11px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span>)</span>**


Other countries will recognize U.S. space control is in their interest – as it upholds the global economic order and they directly benefit

Dolman, 5—**Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Everett C., “U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9-14-05, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]])</span>


Plan:

The United States federal government should develop space solar power.



|| ***Solvency** ||





<span style="color: black;">tech for affordable SPS exists – plan creates the necessary economies of scale </span>

<span style="color: black;">McLinko, 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">- SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” [[http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)RK]]</span>**


The commitment to SSP alone is enough to bolster aerospace – it doesn’t depend upon completion

Nansen, 95** - <span style="font-size: 11px;">led the Boeing team of engineers in the [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]] for the Department of Energy and NASA, andPresident Solar Space Industries (Ralph, __Sun Power__, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]])</span>














=Negative= 
*If you want more information, go to Colin and Dillon's wikipage (Westminster BH/HB)

===Politics Links=== 

====[[#Negative-DISADS-Politics Links-1nc - environmental monitoring]]1nc - environmental monitoring==== 

**Plan kills political capital**
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. government must find innovative ... U.S. universities for around 100,000 dollars.</span>

====[[#Negative-DISADS-Politics Links-2nc - environmental monitoring]]2nc - environmental monitoring==== 

**Budget austerity guarantees backlash against the plan.**
**Morello 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauren, Climatewire and Scientific American, “How Failure of Climate Satellite Sets Back Earth Science, March 7th,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=failure-climate-satellite-sets-back-earth-science]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MBIBAS)</span>

The crash Friday of NASA's … . ... I don't think you can sugarcoat it."


**The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.**
**Boyle,****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Satellite Gap,”[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Sawyer)</span>

Amid all this, <span class="Underline">the country’s</span> … <span class="Underline">danger of losing its funding.</span>


===[[#Negative-DISADS-Militarization 1nc]]Militarization 1nc=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

As is well understood, the space policies … may lurk in these details.


**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,”</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Cooperation for contested and competitive … of responsible space-faring nations.


**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Perhaps of even greater concern … would be unacceptable to all.


**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.

===Recommend CP=== 

**Text – The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for space policy as per Newton and Atkins. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. After making adjustments to the plan based on input from the Commission, the Commission should recommend to Congress that The United States federal government should <<do the plan>>**

**The CP solves --- avoids policy churn that tanks solvency**

**Newton and Atkins 10** (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])


Policy stability is not an unheard-of feat … the long-term benefit of the nation.


**Will pass and doesn’t drain capital**

**Mayer ’07** (Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)


The conventional wisdom was that … resolutions came anywhere close to passing.

==NASA Trade-off DA== 
NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.
Holdren 11 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director office of Science and Tech policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, </span>__http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2-17)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration...operations of the ISS.</span>


**Adding new programs will collapse NASA**

**Dinerman, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – DOD space consultant, and //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, “</span>//NASA and space solar power,” The Space Review, 5/19, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1130/1]])</span>
NASA had good reason to be afraid that...any more distractions right now.

**NASA Earth Science key to international science diplomacy and is sustaining partnerships in the status quo, specifically Japan and India. It also is key to solve global warming through international cooperation**
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH) </span>
The U.S. government should take...resources and agencies.

**Science diplomacy is key to solve every impact, including global warming, soft power, strengthening global relationships, preventing WMD proliferation, winning the war on terror and strengthening cooperative threat reduction programs. It also advances science and can solve food scarcity, poverty and the environment**
**Federoff 8** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Nina, Sec of State, Willaman Professor of Life Sciences and Evan Pugh Professor in the Biology Department and the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University. PHd in Life Sciences “ HEARING BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON RESEARCH AND SCIENCE EDUCATION COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ONE HUNDRED TENTH CONGRESS SECOND SESSION” 4-2-08 [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm]])</span>

Chairman Baird, ranking Member Ehlers...and create sustainability. ity Objectives
==Astropolitics K== 

**“Space” is a social construction. It is an empty canvas where we can project images of warfare or peaceful alternatives. Their representation of space as a battlefield is driven by a worldview where technology guides politics.**

**Bormann, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ISA Conference in San Diego, March 22-25, 2006 Panel on ‘Reading Outer Space’ Dr Natalie Bormann Visiting Assistant Professor The Global Security Program Watson Institute Brown UniversityThe Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To begin with, </span>__the concept of space does not lie //in// space;...__ __for the direction Space policies have taken__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and will continue to take). </span>__The construction of a space of a certain kind is what precedes its weaponization____; it is what makes it common-sensical.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If we assume the construction of space, as opposed to the exploration of space, then we need to ask: what has informed this process?</span>

**Their faith in the ability of technology to provide security reflects a logic of total domination over the planet that renders us all into disposable standing reserve, this risks extinction.**

**Burke, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]] 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span>

__Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely as way of achieving a purer access to truth and epistemological certainty, but as liberating a new power that would enable the creation of a new kind of Man__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He opened the Novum Organum with the statement that 'knowledge and human power are synonymous', and later wrote of his 'determination...</span> __**strategy, warfare and geopolitics human bodies, actions and aspirations are caught, transformed and perverted by such calculating, enframing reason: human lives are reduced to tools**, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.__

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and their representations of the technological need to securitize space.**

**Representations matter uniquely in the context of their affirmative: allowing discourses of technological inevitability to replace political dialogue creates conditions for a space war. Re-framing space politics requires challenging the rhetoric used to justify policies.**

**Grondin, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>__we have no way of ...__ **__Americanization of Outer Space is that it could lead to its very opposite by allowing space weaponization to still be possible, if not inevitable.__**

==**__Taoism K__**== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Living in accord with the Tao precludes taking action to prevent death. As mere humans, we are blind to the overarching meaning of the universe and thus any action we take is unproductive and immoral. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once upon a time, several years ago, ..... The Taoist position, I shall argue, is that planet earth has no "God," and needs none, not even — or more correctly said, especially not — ourselves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Their calls to save humanity are based on a flawed fear of death and a misunderstanding of the continuous nature of the universe.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But by this definition, </span>the natural order....<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from which he or she originally emerged.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to embrace the practice of Wu Wei, or “doing nothing” in order to appreciate the flow of the Tao – only through appreciating the natural order of life can we live according to Taoism.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 96</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "The Book of the Way," 24-29 CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The focus of the Daode jing is ....</span> nothing can thwart its unceasing operation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=== === 
===1NC SKFTA Good=== 
**Yes – TAA and GSP passage**
**Korean Herald 9/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2011 [U.S. Senate clears one hurdle to FTA with S. Korea [[http://www.koreaherald.com/national/Detail.jsp?newsMLId=20110923000369]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, Sept. 22 (Yonhap) -- </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__Senate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … , first signed several years ago.</span>

**[insert specific link]**

Free trade agreements would boost the US economy and power projection—empirics prove
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Riley 7/11/11 (Bryan, Jay Van Andel Senior Analyst in Trade Policy in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation, “Win–Win Trade Agreements Would Boost the U.S. Economy”, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/07/Free-Trade-Agreements-Would-Boost-the-US-Economy]])</span>

Debates about trade <span class="UnderlineChar">and tariffs </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a much better average score of 87.[4]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">US economic leadership creates an incentives framework that prevents these wars from going nuclear—isolationism causes them</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mandelbaum ‘5 – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At best, an American withdrawal … large numbers, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">of </span>nuclear weapons<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1NC EPA== 
**A. Obama is fighting GOP attempts to gut EPA emissions regulations now**
LA Times 10/10/11 ("A GOP assault on environmental regulations," http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/opinionla/la-ed-epa-20111010,0,1099289,print.story)
Republicans in the House are....anyone who breathes.

**B. Link**

**C. Capital is key to defeating Republican efforts to undercut EPA's efforts**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cohen 12/28/10</span> (Steven, Executive Director @ The Earth Institute, Columbia University, Defending EPA Against the Coming Right Wing Attack, 2010, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steven-cohen/defending-epa-against-the_b_801876.html)
Republicans in the next Congress are obviously....against the coming right wing attack

**D. These EPA regulations will solve warming- reduces GHG's, gets modeled globally, & sparks broader US efforts**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Clean Energy News 12/30/10</span> (12/30/10, "EPA Greenhouse Gas Limits to Take Effect in 2011", http://blog.cleanenergy.org/2010/12/30/epa-greenhouse-gas-limits-to-take-effect-in-2011/)

Despite what you may have heard about...our changing climate

**E. Unchecked warming causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tickell 8/11/09</span> (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to get prepared...a similar hothouse Earth
===**1NC Highway Bill**=== 
**A. The highway bill will be extended by Congress, but Obama’s political capital is key to ensuring passage**
**Casey 9/7/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Libby, Washington Correspondent @ Alaska Public Radio Network, "Congress Reconvenes After Five-Week Recess,"[[http://www.alaskapublic.org/2011/09/07/congress-reconvenes-after-five-week-recess/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Congress comes back to work after a five-week recess, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the White House is going on the offensive, pushing lawmakers to pass what’s normally routine legislation ... tran</span>sportation extensions aren’t usually partisan, but he admits that he’s seeing an unparalleled level of bickering and brinksmanship.

**B. SPECIFIC LINK**

**C. Extending the highway bill is key to US infrastructure—this is key to restoring US global leadership and reducing US energy dependence**
**Crandall 8/29/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Retired Chairman/CEO @ AMR and American Airlines, "Potholes and Poverty, or Something Else,"[[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2011/08/whats-it-going-to-take-an-eart.php?mrefid=site_search]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">On September 30, </span>unless Congress ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I just don’t buy the argument that we can’t find a way to finance the assets and capabilities needed to assure a decent future for our kids and grandkids.</span>

**D. Continued oil dependence risks extinction**
**Energy Bulletin 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sept 11, “Australia: Peak Oil - A Perfect Storm,” [[http://www.energybulletin.net/2076.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Apparently </span>an imminent peak ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">preempt nature through either</span><span class="UnderlineChar">adapt</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ing to the changes being forced on us </span><span class="UnderlineChar">or we </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">commit the ultimate genocide and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">destroy ourselves in </span>a nuclear apocalypse<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**E. Leadership stops global nuclear war**
<span class="Heading2Char">Kagan 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, ... if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” </span>__—__ <span class="Heading3Char">__this could__</span>__in time__ <span class="Heading3Char">__increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its__</span> __near__ <span class="Heading3Char">__neighbors, which could__</span>__in turn__ <span class="Heading3Char">**__draw the__****__U__**</span>__nited__ <span class="Heading3Char">**__S__**</span>__tates__ <span class="Heading3Char">**__back in__**</span> __under unfavorable circumstances.__


==Strategy Page== 

*WAKE:
round 1 a/g Pace AK *SPS*
**strat: astropolitics K, militarization DA, launches DA**
**2nc: astropolitics, solvency, leadership**
**1nr: militarization, solvency, leadership**
**2nr: astropolitics K**

round 4 a/g Aspen SZ *Brilliant Pebbles*
**strat: SSA CP, militarization DA, astropolitics**
**2nc: SSA CP, militarization DA, case**
**1nr: astropolitics K**
**2nr: astropolitics K**

round 5 a/g Chattahoochee DK *Nano-sats*
**strat: SSA CP, highway bill politics, militarization DA, astropolitics DA**
**2nc: asteroids add-on, SSA CP, militarization DA**
**1nr: militarization DA**
**2nr: SSA CP and militarization DA**

***GEORGETOWN:**
**round 2 a/g Baltimore City College BB *Space commons affirmative***
strat: Vagueness, Framework, Recommend CP, KORUS
2nr: Recommend CP and politics

**round 4 a/g New Trier RM *SPS***
strat: Recommend CP, SKFTA, NASA trade-off disad, advantage CP (CCP+ Arecibo)
2nr: Recommend CP and SKFTA

**round 6 a/g University BH *kritical asteroid detection***
strat: ESA CP, NASA Trade-off DA, T-humans, SKFTA
2nr: NASA Trade-off, inherency flawed

***JOHNS CREEK:**
round 1 a/g Chattahoochee LK *Nanosats*
strat: EPA plx, space debris turns, astropolitics K, militarization DA, Recommend CP
2nc: Recommend CP, theory
1nr: politics
2nr: politics, theory, turns on case

round 4 a/g Alpharetta TJ *(inflatable?) SPS*
strat: Cap K, Taoism K, EPA politics
2nc: condo, framework, Taoism K, heg
1nr: cap K, global warming
2nr: Taoism/theory

round 5 a/g Alpharetta BP *Lunar solar power*
strat: Recommend CP, EPA plx, Cap K
2nc: recommend CP, theory, colonziation, part of heg
1nr: EPA plx, heg
2nr: recommend CP, theory

elim round 1 a/g Grady CD
strat: Recommend CP, T- increase, EPA plx, nuke exaggeration K, space debris
2nc: recommend CP, theory, case- terrorism, deterrence
1nr: theory, T
2nr: T








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]