[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Sci-fi 1AC - Most Recent== 
===**Observation One: The Status Quo**=== 

**The libertarian visions of Golden Age science fiction exert a strong influence on American culture and policy- left wing utopian hopes have receded in the popular imagination.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 2002</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Jeremy Adam, managing editor of <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.greatergoodmag.org|__Greater Good__]]</span> magazine, “Libertarians in Space”, May 20, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.alternet.org/story/13167/libertarians_in_space/?page=entire|__http://www.alternet.org/story/13167/libertarians_in_space/?page=entire__]]</span> Accessed 9/3/11 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">During</span> my junior year of ...everyone has to grow up sometime.

**This libertarian ideology is implicitly incompatible with space exploration- civilization can’t be sustained without mutual aid and interdependent systems.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stross 8/2/10</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Charlie, Hugo Award winning author, “Space Cadets”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2010/08/space-cadets.html|__http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2010/08/space-cadets.html__]]</span>, Accessed 9/3/11 GAL]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">**__Attempts to discuss__**....**__the myth of the American frontier.__**</span>

**Astrofuturist fiction can transcend its legacy of capitalist end of history visions- our aff is an example of a heterotopia- an achievable utopia which resists closure, and audits our cultural investments in whiteness, masculinity and capitalism.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kilgore 3</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">(De Witt Douglas, Teaches English @ Indiana Univ., __Astrofuturism: Space, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space__, p. 226-7 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Tyson's criticisms and hopes are......</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">active developers of new worlds</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

**This eternal projection of capitalism into the future is a denial of the challenge of historical time- the slogan “there is no alternative” is mindlessly repeated as the “end of history” is declared. This attempt to maintain the eternal present as the ideal of history ignores vast structural inequalities and ongoing genocidal wars, threatening human survival.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Meszaros 2008</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Istvan, professor emeritus @ U Sussex, __The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time__, p. 21-24 Emphasis in original, GAL)</span>

This eternal projection of....**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">be only a bad memory.</span>__**

**The sheer arrogance required to declare the present moment the end of history is mind-boggling- never before, in absolute figures, have violence, inequality, exclusion, famine, and extermination affected so many people on earth.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pomeroy 2004</span> <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Anne Fairchild, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religion Vice-President of the Stockton Federation of Teachers Co-Coordinator of the Radical Philosophy Association, “Marx and Whitehead: process, dialectics, and the critique of capitalism”, p. 163) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Our “economy” is our ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">to promote human life? </span>

Thus,**Poonam and I affirm the utopian possibilities latent in the resolution through the exploration of Urras and Anarres.**

===__Observation Two:__ The Dispossessed=== 

**Ursula K. Le Guin’s novel //The Dispossessed// tells a story of Urras and Anarres, a double planet system. Urras is dominated by a competitive libertarian worldview. The Urrasti are obsessed with status, wealth, and power-- the society has descended into an insatiable quest for material possession in spite of the vast inequality and poverty plaguing the planet.**
**Anarres is a barren moon, colonized by those who have left Urras to escape the greed, war, and oppression. Here they have constructed a society without government, completely decentralized and founded on principles of mutual aid, altruism and self-sacrifice. There is no poverty on Anarres. Despite the scare resources the Anarresti have ensured that all are treated equally - no one will eat while the other starves.**

**//The Dispossessed// tells the story of Shevek, a brilliant Anarresti physicist who travels to Urras to develop a General Temporal Theory. Over the course of the novel, Shevek witnesses first hand how profit and the wish for power corrupt every person and every action – but he also realizes that both the Urrasti and Anarresti society have stagnated because of the walls built up between them.**

**Terra, Earth, is also represented in the novel, but only as a dead world spoiled by humanity, now governed by total centralization.**

**The story is a warning- Terra and Anarres are both possible futures for the United States. Anarres is a not a blueprint for a perfect static utopia, but offers the hope as an ongoing //process// of freedom and mutuality. However, Anarres cannot come to us- the United States must initiate the journey of exploration on its own.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stillman 5</span>** [Peter G. Stillman is Professor of Political Science at Vassar College “ The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed” – pg. 68-69, Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In the face of those difficulties.....</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">and make the attempt. </span>__**

**The Dispossessed disrupts the idea of time as a linear progression towards the “end of history”— the story of the past is never finally told and the future is never fully closed.**

**Only uniting past, present, and future can save either world. The wall built up between the real world of Urras and the utopia of Anarres prevents change in both societies- Anarres loses its connection with past history on Urras, and Urras loses the utopian hope represented by the possible future of Anarres.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Davis 2005</span> [Laurence, PhD in Politics @ Oxford, The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s //The Dispossessed//, Ed. Davis and Stillman, p. 3-9 GAL]

__//<span style="font-size: 16px;">**The Dispossessed**</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **is**</span>__ **__a utopia__**....**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">to go on changing.14 </span>__**

**Regardless of alternative solvency, you have an ethical obligation to attempt to transcend capitalism-- utopian thinking is key to the value of life**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Marsh 95 </span>(James L., Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 331-336 GAL)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">However, such a conception of....not having the veil pierced.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 22px;">2AC Framework</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Counter-interpretation: exploration is a sustained examination of a theme</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Freedictionary 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> [The Free Dictionary by Farlex, Princeton Univertysity, [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/exploration]]] exploration - a systematic consideration; "he called for a careful exploration of the consequences" consideration - the process of giving careful thought to something</span>

=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">The Gap Disad - Policymakers ignore the influence of Sci-Fi at their own peril- neglecting the political questions about the present raised by speculation about the future undermines any future space policy.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Delgado 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> (Laura M., Space Policy Institute @ GWU, 10/19, “A Popcorn-bred Perspective of Space Commercialization” [[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/101019-blog-popcorn-perspective-space-commercialization.html]] Accessed 9/7/11 GAL) Even as the space policy community seems ....... well, who can blame her?</span>
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Counter-interpretation – the USFG is not just centralized bureaucracy it includes citizen participation and deliberative democracy</span>**
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">We are the government – it’s not a distant foreign body</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Raney 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> [Gary Raney – Ada County Sherriff, “ Ada County Sheriff Gary Raney Response to Inquiry regarding Oathkeepers”, October 25th, 2010, [[http://wearechangeidaho.org/CategoryArticles.php?id=1]]] First premise:“They” – the federal government – are not a distant body beyond our control.We are a republic and we are the federal governmentby the power of our vote.It is disingenuous for people to talk about the government as something foreign, like an enemy.In my opinion, it is our general apathy as voters that, by an omission of a vote, allow our government to do things we don’t want them to do.</span>
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Double Bind -</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">A. Their fiat-based model for demands on the state is bad- they have no actual voice in the formation of policy</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Herod</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> 1(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, [[http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914]]) Let's take another example. Russell Mokhiber and Robert Weissman, otherwise very sensible writers, complain that "bombing a desperately poor country under the yoke of a repressive regime is a wrongheaded response.....they could begin to see another way.</span>
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">B. Even if they are right about their interpretation – we can still win that our aff is good for politics because politicians should contemplate the themes in the science fiction and the Dispossessed</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Delgado 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> (Laura, M.A. @ Space Policy Institute GWU, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SPACE 2010 Conference & Exposition, “The Commercialization of Space in Science Fiction Movies: The Key to Sustainability or the Road to a Capitalist Dystopia?”, p. 8-9 GAL) After discussing these two trends of thought – one revealed in space science fiction movies.....the debate may already show some initial points of encounter.</span>
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Counter-interpretation: the resolution is a science fiction text – our aff is the only way to engage in future speculations</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;">Meszaros 89</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.33px;"> (Istvan, likes Marx not Adam Smith. The Power of Ideology, p 232-234 GAL) Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality .....which no social theory or philosophy can escape.</span>
----
==MSR 1AC== 
===Inherency=== 
**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**A Mars Sample Return mission is inevitable - NASA’s cooperation with the ESA will send the Aurora mission to Mars in 2018**
LaunchBase 11<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[“Aurora Programme Information”, September 27th, 2011, [[http://www.launchbase.net/aurora_programme/encyclopedia.htm]], Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In recent years ESA....future planetary exploration[4]. </span>

**NASA is contracting the re-entry mission now – however its containment system doesn’t quarantine or sterilize the soil**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Aurora Flight Sciences 11</span>** [“Aurora Flight Sciences Wins NASA Contract for a Mars Orbiting Sample Retrieval External Orbit Capture (MOSR/EXOCAP)”, March 21st, 2011, [[http://www.aurora.aero/Communications/Item.aspx?id=apr-270]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Cambrige, MA, March 21, 2011 – The National Aeronautics and Space Administration....</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mars Sample Return objectives envisioned for later this decade. </span>__**

===Plan=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should use the DIRECT launch mechanism to construct a lunar scientific outpost which includes a quarantine facility which will receive any future Mars sample return missions.**

===Advantage 1: MSR=== 
**The current plan for MSR return is a Catchers Mit strategy to crash land the vehicle – risking planetary contamination**
DiGregorio 1<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The Quarantine And Certification Of Martian Samples”, May 31st, 2001, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">http://www.spacedaily.com/news/mars-life-01g.html</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">, Chetan] </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA's sole contender....</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">and do go wrong. </span>__**

**Mars samples are way too dangerous to feel safe – they must be quarantined and analyzed for potential microbial life and diseases**
DiGregorio 1<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The dilemma of Mars sample return”, June 2001, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">http://pubs.acs.org/subscribe/journals/ci/31/special/digreg/08digregorio.html</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">, Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Several other </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">notable scientists....</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">whether life ever arose on Mars.</span>

**The impact is the wipe-out of Earth – we have no defenses against potential space microbes**
Butler 7<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Jeb – Vanderbilt University and Juris Doctorate from the University of Georgia, “Unearthly Microbes and the Laws Designed to Resist Them” - 41 Ga. L. Rev. 1355, Summer 2007 (lexis), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> a. Back Contamination. "For the public...</span> **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">a second exposure could prove deadly</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

**AND - The MSR spacecraft will be powered by RTGs – re-entry accident or crash landing risks the death of millions**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rodrigue 2</span>** [Christine M. Rodrigue - Professor and Chair Department of Geography California State University, “Emerging Risk Assessment and Management Controversies in the Mars Sample Return”, July 2002, [[http://www.csulb.edu/~rodrigue/bldrmars.html]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 8px;">For a number of years, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">I have....</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Nuclear Power in Space (no date). </span>


**A lunar quarantine facility solves**
DiGregorio 6<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “A Planetary Quarantine Laboratory On The Moon” (pg. 9), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">In consideration of all the...it in a return to the Moon</span>.
===Advantage 2: Lunar Science=== 

**Global warming is real and undeniable, isolated incidents of cold spells don’t speak to the trend of climate change**
Jones 10<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Jenny, Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs, “NOAA Offers Extensive Proof of Global Warming”, Civil Engineering (08857024); Sep2010, Vol. 80 Issue 9, p36-36, 1p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Global warming is undeniable... following a 30-year trend.</span>

**First, studying lunar regolith allows us to read ‘the solar record’ – letting us understand how climate change happens on Earth and what impact the Sun has on global warming**
Spudis 11<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Paul Spudis is a Senior Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, has a Masters Degree from Brown Univeristy in Planetary Geology. “The Moon’s Role in Climate Science”, March 22nd, 2011, [[http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2011/03/the-moons-role-in-climate-science/]], Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">A recent article about the role...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">patiently waits for us on the Moon.</span>


**AND – the Moon is the perfect laboratory for isolating the solar effect on terrestrial warming – predicting future climate change necessitiates an understanding of solar radiation**
Huang and Pollack 10<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Shaopeng and Henry N. - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “The Moon - A Witness to the Anthropogenic Effect of Global Warming on Earth”, July 23rd, 2010, [[http://www.geo.lsa.umich.edu/~shaopeng/msgc01-poster.pdf]], Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">It is widely believed...</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">subsurface temperature versus depth. </span>


**Second, a climate observatory on the Moon gives us the observation angle to compare solar and terrestrial radiation**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Huang 8</span>** [Shaopeng - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “Surface temperatures at the nearside of the Moon as a record of the radiation budget of Earth’s climate system”, Advances in Space Research Volume 41, Issue 11, 2008, Pages 1853-1860, Chetan]

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Understanding the balance between...</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">the study of terrestrial climate change.</span>

**These views of the Earth are critical to useful climate models**
Schmitt 10<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Dr. Harrison Schmitt is a former astronaut. He received a bachelor of science degree in science from the California Institute of Technology, a doctorate in geology from Harvard University and was the project chief at the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Center for lunar field geological methods and participated in photo and telescopic mapping of the Moon. “Observations Necessary for Useful Global Climate Models” – White Paper submitted to NASA, [[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/decadal/leag/DecadalClimate.pdf]], Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Critical differences exist...whether warming or cooling. </span>

**AND - Cap and trade legislation is inevitable – changing attitudes toward climate change**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Murray 8</span>** [James, “Despite Senate defeat, US cap-and-trade hailed as "inevitable"”, June 9th, 2008,[[@http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1802154/despite-senate-defeat-us-cap-trade-hailed-inevitable]], Chetan]

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The bill was defeated...global warming pollution is inevitable." </span>

**However, an incomplete understanding of warming, lack of assessment data and inaccurate models are hurting its chances**
Lewis et al. 10 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate change is a...to understand and more effectively respond to the climate</span>

**Cap and trade is by and large the most effective way to cap emissions and solve warming**
Pew 9 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is a non-profit, non-partisan, independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. “Climate Change 101 Cap and Trade”, January 2009, [[http://www.pewclimate.org/docUploads/Climate101-CapTrade-Jan09.pdf]], Chetan]</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cap-and-trade programs...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">economy-wide GHG reduction program.</span>__**

**Data is key – US is essential for global climate consensus**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis et al. 10</span>** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]

**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Slowly</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, painfully, <span style="font-size: 16px;">**__we are..__**uncertain landmarks.</span></span>

**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deibel 7</span>** [Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 16px;">there is one major,,,existence of life on this planet</span></span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span></span></span>
===Solvency=== 
**DIRECT’s utilization of Shuttle infrastructure reduces launch time, requires only two launches, and will have humans on the Moon within the decade**
Seedhouse 9 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 234), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">DIRECT architecture advantages</span>


**The Jupiter launch systems have more than enough launch capacity for a lunar base**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (221-222), Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Jupiter 120 and Jupiter 232..</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">requirement by 40 tonnes! </span>

**Lunar base in the South Pole is optimal – resolves most issues with human settlement**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (124-125), Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The site of NASA's outpost...corroborated by recent radar data. </span>
=Negative= 
==Launch DA== 
===1NC=== 
**Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ross et. al. 9</span> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The global market for...</span><span style="font-size: 14.66px;">could become significant.</span>

**That causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith and Daniel 99</span>** (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]])

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The ozone layer...</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">also may occur</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).</span>
===<span style="font-size: 16px;">2NC</span>===