Jan/Feb 2012:

See Harvard-Westlake Michael O'Krent's wiki for Deon NC and Rationality NC. 

Social Contract AC:

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Morality is characterized by the social contract. Moral uncertainty and moral disagreement lead to violence within the state of nature, which is irresolvable.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Renzo[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**

<span style="color: #101010; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">MASSIMO RENZO STATE LEGITIMACY AND SELF-DEFENCE (Accepted 4 May 2011)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">As Gregory Kavka has persuasively …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the state of nature.</span>__</span>**


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Without laws, human would always have their security at risk because there would be no authority to regulate human activity. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> Renzo </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">2</span>

The first assumption is normally defended [...] __**the state of nature would arise again.**__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">However, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the agreed upon social norms cannot apply in all situations. The government does not have the ability to respond to all situations. Such imminent situations call for self-defense. **Gauthier[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]**</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">David Gauthier –[ Department of Philosophy, University of Pittsburgh.]1996 The University of Pittsburgh Law Review. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. [SELF-DEFENSE AND RELATIONS OF DOMINATION: MORAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES ON BATTERED WOMEN WHO KILL: SELF-DEFENSE AND THE REQUIREMENT OF IMMINENCE: COMMENTS ON GEORGE FLETCHER'S DOMINATION IN THE THEORY OF JUSTIFICATION AND EXCUSE]. 57 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 615</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Now I think Fletcher …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">protection of the law.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the affirmative burden is to prove that domestic violence is a threat in which the victim has no other option than to resort to deadly force.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Observation 2: victims of domestic abuse have no other option than resorting to deadly force.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) **Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The government is ineffective at protecting victims from their abusers. Even if the victim manages to secure a restraining order their safety is far from certain. **Burke**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Alafair S. Burke [Associate Professor, Hofstra University School of Law. B.A., Reed College; J.D., Stanford Law School] Rational Actors, Self-Defense, and Duress: Making Sense, not Syndromes, out of the Battered Woman. 2002. North Carolina Law Review – Volume 81. Pg 270</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Even if someone does …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> no safe options.</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">249</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**

Sarah M. Buel [___] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK__

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The victim be- lieves …</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> ex- tensive safety planning.9</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) **Psychological barriers**</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The psychological violence done against spouses creates an image of themselves in which they have nowhere to run. It seems violence could erupt again at any moment. **The Supreme Court of Kansas in State v. Hundley[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn10|[10]]]**</span>__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=7172490382886741520&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">STATE OF KANSAS, Appellee, v. BETTY HUNDLEY, Appellant. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">No. 56,244. Opinion filed January 11, 1985.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Wife beating is steeped …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> from the torture.</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">And, many victims of domestic abuse are in denial of their own situation and thus don’t leave or seek help. **Buel:**</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Some victims are in denial</span>**__...their own degree of harm.__


__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Victims often believe their abuser when they promise that they will change. This means they cannot act until the threat is about to occur. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn11|[11]]]</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The batterer’s promises … an inconsequential incident.</span>**

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">C) </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Financial Barriers.</span>**</span>__
__<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Women often cannot leave their abuser because of financial dependency.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinez</span>**<span style="cursor: pointer;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn13|**[13]**]]</span></span></span>__
__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Jeri Martinez [Domestic Violence Victim Advocate at Washington County State's Attorney] “HOSTAGES IN THE HOME: Domestic Violence Seen Through Its Parallel, The Stockholm Syndrome” AK</span>__
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Another brick in …</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">housing, exposure to drugs, gangs, etc.  </span>__


__Observation 3: Deadly force becomes a legitimate form of self-defense due to the relationship between men and women. **Doyle**__ 

__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Doyle,MeredithC.,"GenderInequalityintheLaw:DeficienciesofBatteredWomanSyndromeandaNewSolutiontoClosingtheGender GapinSelf-DefenseLaw"(2011).//CMCSeniorTheses.//Paper149. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://scholarship.claremont.edu/cmc_theses/149]]</span>__

**Self defense law also subordinates**__...address these differences effectively.