[[toc]]
=1AC Greenhill= 
**Plan: The United States federal government should resume its human spaceflight program.**

**Contention one is Neoliberalism.**

**Obama’s new space policy redistributes the risks and rewards of space exploration to private enterprises**
<span class="cite">__Sandilands 10__</span>, Ben, Crikey Blogger, 2/1/2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crikey.com.au/2010/02/01/yanks-see-a-bad-moon-arisin/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">In fact,the sub-text of … using next generation reusable space craft</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>**

**Private control of space clears the path for the eradication of national sovereignty in space in //any form//—the result is to eradicate the existing legal safeguards in space so that the ONLY form of regulation in space is the naturalized invisible hand of the market**
<span class="cite">Gagnon 04</span>, Bruce K. Gagnon is coordinator of Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, “Space Privatization: Road to Conflict?” People’s World, 7/23, DA: 7/23/11, [[http://www.peoplesworld.org/space-privatization-road-to-conflict/]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">As the </span>privateers__move into space__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">another new “frontier” of conflict is created.</span>

**The result is the destruction of space as a shared human “common,” replacing it with an enclosed zone of sheer market control. Repression is disguised as an impersonal economic force.**
**__Biljoy__** **__09__**, C.R., “Beyond Resistance And Cooption” Z-Net Magazine, online

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is not the ‘tragedy of the commons' … state mediated militaristic enclosures</span>**.**

**The reduction of all existence to nothing more than an epiphenomenal trace of an ontologically functioning market eradicates both the value of life and life itself.**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Dillon 99, Michael, Professor of Politics and International Relations – University of Lancaster, “Another Justice”, Political Theory, 27(2), April, p. 164-165</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Quite the reverse. The subject was … constitutive of the human way of being.</span>

**And, the translation of collective imperatives of humanity into purely marketized effects results in an atrocious extinction through quiet discourses of the free market masked as national and democratic interests**
**__Santos__** **__03__**,director, Center for Social Studies, U Coimbra,
<span class="cite">//Collective Suicide?//</span> Bad Subjects, no 63, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://eserver.org/bs/63/santos.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West …</span> __turns into a machine of horror and destruction.__

**And these impacts come first—interrogating the destruction of the commons by challenging policy presumptions is a prerequisite to solving extinction level impacts.**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Robert P. </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">Marzec 02</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, Associate Professor postcolonial studies and contemporary criticism at the State University of New York at Fredonia, boundary 2 2002 29(2):129-156 “Enclosures, Colonization, and the Robinson Crusoe Syndrome: A Genealogy of Land in a Global Context”</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The pervasive lack of … to the possible ways a heterogeneous citizenry can inhabit the earth.</span>

**Neoliberalism destroys public space—your role in this debate is to oppose the colonization of the debate world by neoliberal logics—attempts to box in the contours of the affirmative proposal are politicized attempts to reassert neoliberalism.**
<span class="cite">__Giroux 04__,</span> Henry, Professor of Media at McMaster University, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neoliberalism” Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, Numbers 3 & 4
The ascendancy of neo-liberal<span style="font-size: 11px;"> …</span>regimes central to reproducing neo-liberalism**.**

**Contention three is militarism.**

**Privatization of the space industry is spurring militarism.**
<span class="cite">__Dickens__ </span>20<span class="cite">__10__</span>, Peter, Professor of Sociology at Cambridge, “The Humanization of the Cosmos” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">But, at the same time, </span>__restructuring within the space …__ __is, in practice, being co-opted into the military-industrial complex.__

**Private space corporations are the root cause of space militarization.**
<span class="cite">__Salin 01,__ </span>Patrick, Professor at McGill University, “Privatization and militarization in the space business environment,” Elsevier Science, 2/19, DA: 7/19/11, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964600000503#fn1|http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964600000503#fn1]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">We are slowly discovering that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span>militarization<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> process </span>of … that are not answerable to the international community.

**This blend of neoliberalism and militarism creates the worst kind of biopolitical extermination.**
<span class="cite">Giroux 2006 </span>[Henry A, Global Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, College Literature 33.3 (2006) pgs 171-196 “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, ProjectMuse, d/a: 7-24-2011 WL]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">I want to further this position by …all the more urgent by the destruction, politics, and death that followed Hurricane Katrina.</span>

**Exercises of biopower justify administration over the body politic – the ultimate impact is global nuclear conflict, genocide, and extinction**
Michel <span style="font-size: 17px;">Foucault 78</span>, Professor of History of Systems of Thought at the Collège de France, 19<span style="font-size: 17px;">78</span>, The History of Sexuality Volume 1: An Introduction, translated by Robert Hurley, p. 135-137
<span style="font-size: 9px;">For a long time,</span>__one of the characteristic … the large-scale phenomena of population.__

**Contention three is solvency.**

**Human inhabitation of space is inevitable—rejecting the neoliberal notion of privatization is key to preventing the reproduction of Earthly crises in space.**
<span class="cite">__Dickens__ 20__10__, </span>Peter, Professor of Sociology at Cambridge, “The Humanization of the Cosmos” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">But</span>humanizing outer space<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ….</span> reproduce social and environmental crises on a cosmic scale**.**

**Plan joins a broader neoliberal struggle—reestablishing space as a public good is akin to other global struggles to remake the neoliberal order**
<span class="cite">__Springer 2011__</span>, Simon, Professor of Geography at University of Otago, “”Public Space as Emancipation…” Antipode 43.2,[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-8330.2010.00827.x/pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">In establishing an anarchic framework ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that adversely affect their lives</span>**.**

**Collapse of neoliberalism is inevitable – its expansion into space is a futile short-term fix for systemic crisis. Preventing further capital accumulation produces more progressive alternatives both in space and on Earth.**
<span class="cite">__Dickens__ </span>20<span class="cite">__10__</span>, Peter, Professor of Sociology at Cambridge, “The Humanization of the Cosmos” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The general point is that the vision of ….</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> economic system. At best, they are short-term solutions.</span>__</span>

**We must use space technology to subvert militarism.**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">MacDonald 07</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, Fraser, prof of Anthropology, Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik: outer space and the orbit of geography,” 10/07, Progress in Human Geography,[[http://phg.sagepub.com/content/31/5/592.abstract]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Lastly,</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">a critical geography … a truly human geography.</span>__</span>

**Vote affirmative to enact the plan not as a utopian vision but as a realistic policy resisting the neoliberal erosion of the global commons.**
<span class="cite">Huntley et al. 2009</span>, Wade, Prof. at Naval Postgraduate School, “Planning the Unplannable…” //Space Policy,// [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA523690&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">This absence is ironic, given … of the long-term human presence in space</span>
=Negative= 
===T - Only Commercial=== 
A. Interpretation- Development includes economic and commercial activities while exploration is venturing to unknown areas
Hsu and Cox 09
[Feng Hsu, Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group and Ken Cox, Founder & Director Aerospace Technology Working Group, 2/20/09, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]], Caplan]
In our view, even with adequate reform in its governance model, NASA is not a rightful institution to lead or manage the nation's business in Space Development projects. This is because human space development activities,<span class="DebateUnderline"> such as development of affordable launch vehicles, RLVs, space-based solar power, space touring capabilities, communication satellites, and trans-earth or trans-lunar space transportation infrastructure systems, </span>are primarily human economic and commercial development endeavors that are not only cost-benefit-sensitive in project management, but are in the nature of business activities and are thus subject to fundamental business principles related to profitability, sustainability, and market development, etc. Whereas, in space exploration, <span class="DebateUnderline">by its</span> nature and <span class="DebateUnderline">definition</span>, there are basic human scientific research and development (R&D) activities that require exploring the unknowns, pushing the envelope of new frontiers or taking higher risks with full government and public support, and these need to be invested in solely by taxpayer contributions.
B. Violation- The Aff increases space militarization capabilities- not tied to economic or commercial development

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">C. Voting issue- </span>**</span>
1. Limits – The topic is already massive – allowing militarization allows for a whole new research base with thousands of different plan mechanisms for militarization- killing limits
2. Brightline – only our definition sets what is topical and what is not. Any other interpretation is vague and destroys education
===[[#Negative--T - Its]]T - Its=== 
Interpretation – Its is possessive
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Committee on Expository Writing</span>: William Cronon, Linda Peterson, Daniel Koditschek, Jules Prown, David Mayhew, Jon Rieder, Stuart Moulthrop, and Thomas Whitaker. 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">01</span>, Yale University, Page 35 [[http://www.schepartzlab.yale.edu/Coollinkspdfs/yale-writingprose.pdf]]
An apostrophe (’) indicates that one or more letters have been omitted from a word in a contraction (“do not” becomes “don’t”; “he is” becomes “he’s”). Apostrophes also occur in possessives (“**<span style="font-family: Minion-Semibold,serif;">the wrath of Guido</span>**” becomes “**<span style="font-family: Minion-Semibold,serif;">Guido’s wrath</span>**”). Generally you need worry only about possessives, since contractions are not acceptable in formal prose; but if you do have occasion to use the contraction “it’s” (for “it is”), do not confuse it with the possessive form of the pronoun, “its” (no apostrophe). Never leave out the apostrophe in a possessive noun (not “Herbs dog” but “Herb’s dog”). In making plural nouns possessive, use the apostrophe alone
Violation – The aff increases cooperative space exploration with China.
Standards
# Limits – the aff explodes limits, allowing the United States to cooperate with any foreign country, which creates 200 different affs. That collapses education – we learn about international space policy instead of actual US space programs, which are the core of the topic.
# Grammar – We are prepared to debate the language of the resolution, changing it kills predictability and neg strategic side bias
And, increase means make something greater.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brown, 03</span> US Federal Judge for the United States District Court For The District Of Oregon (Elena Mark And Paul Gustafson, Plaintiffs, v. Valley Insurance Company And Valley Property And Casualty, Defendants, 7/17/03, lexis)
FCRA does not define the term "increase." The plain and ordinary meaning of the verb "to increase" is to make something greater or larger. 4 Merriam-Webster's [**22] Collegiate Dictionary 589 (10th ed. 1998). The "something" that is increased in the statute is the "charge for any insurance." The plain and common meaning of the noun "charge" is "the price demanded for something." Id. at 192. Thus, the statute plainly means an insurer takes adverse action if the insurer makes greater (i.e., larger) the price demanded for insurance.**
**An insurer cannot "make greater" something that did not exist previously. The statutory definition of adverse action, therefore, clearly anticipates an insurer must have made an initial charge or demand for payment before the insurer can increase that charge. In other words, an insurer cannot increase the charge for insurance unless the insurer previously set and demanded payment of the premium for that insured's insurance [**23] coverage at a lower price.
Violation: the aff conditions the increase on China’s participation.
# **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Limits – the aff should not be able to introduce planks of the plan that are outside the resolution – makes it impossible for the neg to prepare killing clash and education</span>**
# **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ground – they can spike out of all our offense, killing neg strat.</span>**
# **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jurisdiction – their advocacy is outside the resolution; they don’t prove the resolution is true so vote neg on presumption</span>**

T is a voter for fairness and education


===[[#Negative--Ozone DA]]Ozone DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The ozone is recovering now, but can still be damaged </span>
**SN 11** (Science News, “Ozone hole on the mend” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/74280/title/Ozone_hole_on_the_mend]]</span>//Donnie)

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Scientists</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">may have </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">… </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">ozone thinned over the Arctic more than scientists have ever seen (SN: 4/9/11, p. 12). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Shuttles rip holes—that causes extinction </span>
**__Thomas 6__** (William, is an award-winning Canadian journalist specializing in health and environment “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth” [[http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 11px;">After a year or two, Finley said</span>, <span style="font-size: 13px;">millions of tons … an atmospheric “blowout” could be fatal to life on Earth.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Loss of the Ozone leaves us defenseless from UV rays which destroy biodiversity and spur buildup of greenhouse gas emissions</span>
**EPA 11** (January 1/13/2011, “Health and Environmental Effects of Ozone Layer Depletion”,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/effects/index.html]]</span> TC, EA)
__The Connection Between Ozone Layer …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> limiting the length of time for which they are useful outdoors. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Collapse of ocean ecosystems ensures extinction of all life</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Davidson, 03Founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist (Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51, EA]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">But surely the Athenians had it backward … thirty-two are found in the oceans and just twelve on land. </span>
===[[#Negative--Space Mil DA]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space Mil DA</span>=== 
Space weapons not inevitable – multiple warrants
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mueller 2 </span>(Karl P. Mueller, Ph.D. in politics, Princeton University; B.A. in political science, University of Chicago, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, 3/27/2002, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?,” International Studies Association Annual Convention)
Far and away the best … in light of the alternatives.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">[case-specific link]</span>**</span>
Space weapons lead to global arms race
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitchens 02</span> (Theresa Hitchens, Vice President of the Center for Defense Information, 2002. “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette?” [[@http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm]])
The United States already enjoys .... <span class="DebateUnderline">atomic weapons race proved to be.</span>
Space weapons cause first striking and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krepon 04</span> (Michael Krepon, president emeritus of the Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004. Arms Control Association, “Weapons in the Heavens: A Radical and Reckless Option,” [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2004_11/Krepon#krepon|http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2004_11/Krepon#krepon]])
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">To prevent adversaries from</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> … a prelude to attacks on nuclear forces</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>

===[[#Negative--SKFTA DA]]SKFTA DA=== 

[tournament-specific uniqueness]
Plan spends political capital --- Congress opposed to space spending
**Powell 09**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13,[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]])</span>
__NASA supporters are bracing … an Obama space program.”__

And capital is key
<span class="cite">Matthews and Holtz-Eakin 2-9</span>
<span style="font-size: 9px;">(Merrill Matthews is a resident scholar with the Institute for Policy Innovation. Douglas Holtz-Eakin is president of the American Action Forum and served as a member of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0211/49150.html#ixzz1QK3Wdlwn|http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0211/49150.html#ixzz1QK3Wdlwn]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Obama has set a national goal of …</span><span style="font-size: 9px;"> U.S. goods and services. The best way to achieve that goal is with a free trade agreement.</span>
And the deal is key to relations with South Korea --- key to deter North Korean belligerence
Gerwin 10
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Edward F., Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy – Third Way, “5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal”, Wall Street Journal, 12-16,[[http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2010/12/16/guest-contribution-5-reasons-america-needs-korea-free-trade-deal/]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">5. China is Not a Fan.</span> <span class="tagChar">__The Korea FTA__ … __American trade__</span>__.__
And, Korean crisis escalates to great power conflict
Stares and Wit 09
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Paul, Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention – Council on Foreign Relations and, Joel, Adjunct Senior Research Fellow – Weatherhead East Asia Institute at Columbia University, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea”, January, [[http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/North_Korea_CSR42.pdf]])</span>

These various scenarios would … <span style="font-size: 9px;">South Korean and American intervention in the North.</span>

===[[#Negative--Framework Agreement CP]]Framework Agreement CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Text: The United States federal government should engage in a “Framework Agreement” with the People’s Republic of China. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">The plan is a __band aid solution__ while the counterplan treats the underlying disease—a Framework Agreement solves undercurrents of__security__, __politics__, and __economics__.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Gross 2007</span>[Donald G., senior fellow at The Atlantic Council, “Transforming the U.S. Relationship with China”, Global Asia Vol. 2 No. 1, Winter 2007, www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/../copy_of_07035Gross.pdf//TT]
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Washington prepares for future conflict … a far sounder footing for the long term</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>
===[[#Negative--Privatization CP]]Privatization CP=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should offer a substantial monetary prize to the first organization to _.**

**Prizes work – maximizes the number of approaches and chance of solvency**
**__Stine__ __09__** (Deborah, PhD in public administration with a focus on science and technology policy analysis from American University,associate director of the Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy; director of the National Academies Christine Mirzayan Science and Technology Policy Fellowship Program, “Federally Funded Innovation Inducement Prizes” Congressional Research Services, 6/29/09, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40677.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">NASA makes the following assessment … they also sell the engine commercially.55</span>

**[case-specific solvency]**
===[[#Negative--PPWT CP]]PPWT CP=== 

<span style="font-size: 13px;">CP Text: The United States Federal government should ratify and enforce the Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force Against Outer Space Objects. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Now is key-- point of no return</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jaramillo 09 </span>(Cesar, 12/1/09, "In Defence of the PPWT Treaty: Toward a Space Weapons Ban," Space Security, Winter 2009 Volume 30 Issue 4, [[http://www.ploughshares.ca/content/defence-ppwt-treaty-toward-space-weapons-ban]]
Time is of the essence for … so that space can be preserved as a peaceful global commons.
PPWT increases transparency, prevent arms race, and increase cooperation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vasiliev 08</span> (Victor, political counselor for the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, 4/1/08, "THE DRAFT TREATY ON THE PREVENTION OF THE PLACEMENT OF WEAPONS IN OUTER SPACE, THE THREAT OR USE OF FORCE AGAINST OUTER SPACE OBJECTS," [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf]])
So, why do we need a PPWT<span class="CardsChar">? … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">which is exactly what humankind wants to avoid.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">International law solves space war better than dominance can.</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Englehart 8</span>__**
Alex B Englehart, <span class="st">contributor to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal at the University of Washington School of Law</span> Jan 2008 “Common Ground In The Sky: Extending The 1967 Outer Space Treaty To Reconcile US and Chinese Security Interests<span class="DebateUnderline">” Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal ProQuest Asian Business and Reference pg. 133 <</span>[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?did=1429810431&Fmt=7&clientId=4347&RQT=309&VName=PQD]]>//DoeS
<span style="font-size: 15px;">Some</span> <span style="font-size: 11px;">conservatives</span> __<span style="font-size: 15px;">i</span>__<span style="font-size: 15px;">n the United States … </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">potential for its strategic adversaries to act in bad faith. </span>
===[[#Negative--Coercion]]Coercion=== 

Government-run space exploration is an inefficient waste of taxpayer dollars
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Villacampa ’06</span>, Alexander Villacampa, economics degree from the University of Florida, fellow at the Mises Institute, September 20, 2006, “NASA: Exemplary of Government Waste”, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig7/villacampa2.html]]
It is quickly becoming the … <span class="DebateUnderline">up in the golden pockets of pork-barrelers.</span>
Taxes are only meant the hide the power of politics, monopolies and war. They must be rejected, for the immorality of taxes allows for a vortex of immoralities against the individual
Frank <span style="font-size: 16px;">Chodorov 1962</span> (creater of the ISI and acclaimed individualist conservative) //<span style="color: blue;">Out of Step: The Autobiography of an Individualist</span>//, The Devin-Adair Company, New York, 1962, pp. 216?239. [[http://mises.org/etexts/taxrob.asp]]
<span class="DebateUnderline">A basic immorality becomes … as the necessary means for un­specified social betterment.</span>
Every invasion of freedom must be rejected
Sylvester <span style="font-size: 16px;">Petro</span>, professor of law, Wake Forest University, Spring <span style="font-size: 16px;">1974</span>, TOLEDO LAW REVIEW, p. 480.
However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway – “I believe in only one thing: liberty.” And it is always well to bear in mind …<span class="DebateUnderline">identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>
===[[#Negative--Capitalism]]Capitalism=== 
**1. Expansion into space is at the heart of capitalism**
**__Dickens 10__** (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos-To What End?” [[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]] 8/30/11 NBM)

<span style="font-size: 11px;">At this point, we must return … these being located mainly on earth.</span>

**2. Capitalism causes poverty, nuclear war, ecological destruction, economic crisis, disease, overpopulation – profit maximization and competition**
<span class="TagChar">__Webb 04__</span> (“War, capitalism, and George W. Bush” SAM is the NATIONAL CHAIRMAN, COMMUNIST PARTY USA http:// www.peoplesworld.org/war-capitalism-and-george-w-bush)

<span style="font-size: 11px;">We are living in a fragile and … national and international level.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">3. Our alternative is to reject the aff and establish an oppositional society against the oppressive system of capital. </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Herod 04</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (James Herod, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts, January 2004, Getting Free 4th edition, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.jamesherod.info/Getting_Free.pdf]])</span>

__It is time__ to try __to describe__ … __slavery and__ possibly even to __extinction__

===[[#Negative--Security K (Heg/Mil Affs)]]Security K (Heg/Mil Affs)=== 
Space weapons establish a regime of biopolitical control – the entire population of earth becomes subject to absolute levels of disciplinary regulation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Havercroft and Duvall 9</span> (Jonathan Havercroft (PhD University of Minnesota 2006) is an SDF Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Centre of International Relations, University of British Columbia Raymond D. Duvall's research covers international political economy, international relations, global governance, social institutions of global capitalism and international organizations. He has published on the capitalist state, the democratic peace, and approaches to security. He co-edited Power and Global Governance (Cambridge University Press, 2005)., “3 Critical astropolitics: the geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty,” Securing Outer Space Eds. Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan, Routledge, Pp. 52-57//DN)//
//In light of Foucault's incisive … <span class="DebateUnderline">with the will of the imperial center</span>.//
//Their attempts to frame the plan as merely responsive to inevitable threats is the logic that structures violence in the first place. Distrust all aff claims//
//**Webb 9** (Dave Webb is a Professor of Engineering Modeling, Director of the 'Praxis Centre" (a multidisciplinary research centre for the 'Study of Information Technology to Peace, Conflict and Human Rights') and a member of the School of Applied Global Ethics at Leeds Metropolitan University. "Securing Outer Space"; "Space Weapons: Dream, nightmare or reality?" Routledge Critical Security Studies Series, 2009,[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=Dmy5t_u1cuMC&oi=fnd&pg=PA221&dq=%22outer+space%22+exploration+David+Campbell+and+Der+Derian&ots=dQPUQlUUSf&sig=hkL0lVD-nWxDJ8JZwAgcCXuHs78#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=Dmy5t_u1cuMC&oi=fnd&pg=PA221&dq=%22outer+space%22+exploration+David+Campbell+and+Der+Derian&ots=dQPUQlUUSf&sig=hkL0lVD-nWxDJ8JZwAgcCXuHs78#v=onepage&q&f=false]], JT)//

//Conclusion//
//<span class="DebateUnderline">War in space is undesirable</span> for … space environment free of war a reality.//
//The dream of security ensures apocalypse from now on –// constructions //of existential risk ensures the enactment of annihilation.//
//Pever <span style="font-size: 16px;">Coviello</span>, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k </span>[//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]//
//Perhaps. But to claim that … or otherwise, <span class="DebateUnderline">seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>//
//Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought//
//Mark <span style="font-size: 16px;">Neocleous</span>, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2008</span> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]//
//The only way out of such a dilemma<span class="DebateUnderline">… </span><span class="nohighlighting">**brave enough to return the gift."'**</span>//

//<span class="nohighlighting">**Security K (Exploration/Colonization Affs)**</span>//

//[aff-specific link]//
//The attempt to explore space reflects an insatiable urge to colonize and dominate. Going to space does not resolve problems on earth – it merely expands the destructive potential of our worst impulses.//
//<span class="Author-Date">Bormann and Sheehan, 2009</span> (Natalie Bormann, Department of Politics, Northeastern University, Boston, and Michael Sheehan, Professor of International Relations at Swansea University, Securing Outer Space, 2009, p. 1-3)//
//That day in October 1957 … . <span class="DebateUnderline">The realities of the space age demand novel social theories</span> of the same order.//
//The dream of security ensures apocalypse from now on –// constructions //of existential risk ensures the enactment of annihilation.//
//Pever <span style="font-size: 16px;">Coviello</span>, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k </span>[//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]//
//Perhaps. But to claim that … or otherwise, <span class="DebateUnderline">seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>//
//Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought//
//Mark <span style="font-size: 16px;">Neocleous</span>, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2008</span> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]
The only way out of such a dilemma<span class="DebateUnderline">… </span><span class="nohighlighting">**brave enough to return the gift."**</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]