[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">B. E.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Rollin<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> defines animal rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">B. E. Rollin, “Animal welfare, animal rights and agriculture,” Journal of Animal Science, 1990, 68:3456-3461.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If one can …ethic to animals </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">recognition is the acknowledgment of…entitled to consideration. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dictionary.com</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Soran Reader, “New Directions in Ethics: Naturalisms, Reasons and Virtue,” Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus Michael Thompson …going as it 'should'. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Standard: maintaining consistency with one’s natural purpose. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C1:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ted Benton, “Natural relations: ecology, animal rights, and social justice,” Verso, 1993</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human/animal continuism…are capable of it. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steven J. Bartlett, “Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks,” 8 Animal L. 143 (2002)A legal commentator …to seem counterintuitive. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Gruen, Lori, "The Moral Status of Animals", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.),[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/moral-animal/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Many of the… to use language</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steven J. Bartlett, Ibid</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In this context,…of this planet. </span>
<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The human saliva and esophagus is consistent being herbivores. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mills, R. Milton. [PH.D- serves as Associate Director of Preventive Medicine for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine] “The Comparative Anatomy of Eating”. 2009. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The saliva of carnivorous….swallow them whole.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mills 2, Ibid</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human saliva contains </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">….</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">choking in humans.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also, </span><span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human teeth are consistent with herbivores’. </span>
<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mills 3, Ibid</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human teeth are </span><span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">pulping non-coarse foods.</span>


----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]B. E. Rollin, “Animal welfare, animal rights and agriculture,” Journal of Animal Science, 1990, 68:3456-3461.</span>
==Negative== 
V: Morality

Agents must act for reasons

C: Consistency with Contractarinaism
Based on consent

C1: contract can only be formed between equals and human reign over animals
Gauthier
Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
But the strengths… rationally grounded morality

C2: one must be able to have future directed interests in order to have a reason to form contracts Gruen
Lori Gruen “The Moral Status of Animals” 2010 Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy

A more satisfying… rests that persons do. 
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]