[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Plan: The United States federal government should pursue the development of its lunar mining capabilities for Helium-3 as allowed under the 1967 Outer Space Treaty.

Inherency
There is currently a shortage of Helium-3 on Earth
Dana A. Shea and Daniel Morgan 2010 (Dana A. Shea, specialist in science and technology policy, and Daniel Morgan, special in science and technology policy, Congressional Research Facility, December 22, 2010, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41419.pdf)

The world is experiencing … allocating the supply if it continues to fall short of demand.

==Advantage 1: Nuclear forensics== 
U.S. nuclear forensics capabilities are collapsing due to lack of He3
Wald 9 – Matthew L. Wald, International Herald Tribune Correspondent, November 24, 2009, “Shortage Of Ingredient Mires Bomb Detection,” The International Herald Tribune, News Section, Pg. 4, Lexis
The U.S. Department of Homeland … that produce it in usable form, the United States and Russia, was only about 20,000 liters.
Helium-3 nuclear forensics K2 Prevent Dirty Bomb – Many materials empirically detected by in-place radiation systems are perfect for a terrorist built dirty bomb.
Coll 7 – Steve Coll, Pulitzer-Prize Winning President Of New America, March 12, 2007, “The Unthinkable: Can The United States Be Made Safe From Nuclear Terrorism?” The New Yorker, Fact Section, A Reporter At Large, Vol. VV No. 000issue, Lexis: pg. 48
<The world, it turns out, … Al Qaeda-inspired radicals are pursuing such a weapon.>

Credible nuclear forensics prevents over-reaction by the U.S. in the wake of a nuclear terror event---that stops massive retaliation
Dunlop and Smith 6 – William Dunlop, retired senior scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, led LLNL’s Arms Control and International Non-Proliferation programs and was a scientific adviser to the U.S. delegation involved in negotiations on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and Harold Smith, distinguished visiting scholar and professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy, University of California at Berkeley, October 2006, “Who Did It? Using International Forensics to Detect and Deter Nuclear Terrorism,” Arms Control Today, online: http://www.armscontrol.org/print/2129
Such determinations, if credibly obtained … action must wait until the evidence is clear.

Massive U.S. retaliation triggers full-scale nuclear war
Harvard Law Review8 [“NOTE: THE INCENTIVE GAP: REASSESSING U.S. POLICIES TO SECURE NUCLEAR ARSENALS WORLDWIDE,” 121 Harv. L. Rev. 1864]
Upon closer analysis, however, …be strategically unwise for the United States, other states will question the credibility of
Credible nuclear forensics deters nuclear terror in the first place---prevents state transfers of nuclear material
Phillips 7 – Matthew Phillips, senior analyst for DeticaDFI, a national security consulting firm in Washington, D.C., 2007, “Uncertain Justice for Nuclear Terror: Deterrence of Anonymous Attacks Through Attribution,” Orbis, Vol. 51, No. 3, p. 429-446
The prospect of North Korea or Iran …, policymakers should not rely entirely on this technology as a failsafe means to deter nuclear terrorism.

Terrorists Drawn To Nuclear Power Plants - large chance of disasters caused by terrorists because of low security measures
Reuters. 6-23-11. “Nuclear terrorism can cause another Fukushima: expert.” Reuters.
Global action to protect the …be caused not only be accident but by terrorist action."


==Advantage 2: Economy== 
Cuts cause global recession – economy on the brink (Nesto 11) http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/breakout/barton-biggs-austerity-big-mistake-124734101.html Barton M. Biggs is a money manager running Traxis Partners, a … "I've advised my grandchildren to be engineers," Biggs announces.

Stimulus Key To The Economy—It Prevents Global Collapse, Unemployment, And Spiraling Recession.
Worth June 11, Jim. Author, Journalist for the Huffington Post. “Stimulating a Dead Economy.” Hufpost Business. June 17, 2011. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jim-worth/stimulating-a-dead-econom_b_878850.html
The U.S. economy is surviving only because … municipalities would have already defaulted.

Fossil Fuels Control The Economy—Price Spikes And Falls.
Ponick, Terry. Staff writer. “Obama Oil Policy: Dump It, Don’t Pump It.” Washington Times Communities. June 24, 2011. http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/prudent-man/2011/jun/24/obama-oil-policy-dump-it-dont-pump-it/
The U.S. stock market … practices of producing countries who are not exactly our friends.

Growing Dependence Causes Spikes In Energy Prices, Leading To Economic Collapse.
Lugar 07-Former vice-chair Commission on Intergovernmental Relation, Foreign Relations Committee, former chair of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee [Richard, “ENERGY SECURITY, ENERGY URGENCY: KEY ISSUES FACING THE NEXT PRESIDENT”, Dec. 18, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2007/1218_lugar/20071218lugar.pdf]
Second, transformational energy policies … due to terrorism, war, embargo or natural disaster.
Declines in American technology and manufacturing base kills the economy and US leadership
Velazquez 03
(Nydia M Velazquez, Ranking Member of House Small Business Committee. House.gov, 10-16-2003: “Is America Losing Its Lead in High-tech: Implications for the U.S. Defense Industrial Base” accessed June 26, 2011 from http://democrats.smallbusiness.house.gov/Statements/2003/st101603.htm [6/8/11])
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Earlier in the year, the committee …, so that we can remain a leader in the world market.


Economic decline causes nuclear and biological war
Kerpen, ‘8 – Conservative policy analyst in Washington, D.C.
[“From Panic to Depression?”, NRO Financial, http://article.nationalreview.com/376654/from-panic-to-depression/phil-kerpen] 
It’s important that we avoid … risk armed conflicts on an even greater scale.

Helium 3 solves:
Helium-3 Cost Efficient— solves energy dependence
Stansbery 11 (Dr. Eileen K. Stansbery, the Deputy Director, Office of Astromaterials Research and Exploration Science at NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC)NASA, June 25, 2011, http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/humanexplore/exploration/exlibrary/docs/isru/06energy.htm)

Along with the other light gases … be worth about this same amount-or more when the environmental impact of fossil fuels is included.
He-3 Stimulates The Economy: It Promotes Job Creation And Product Development
D’souza, Otalvaro & Singh 6 (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science by Marsha R. D’Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)
The peculiarity of He-3 is that the resources …commodities that would be tailored for lunar use.

==Advantage 3: Warming== 
Carbon Dioxide Emissions Are Increasing—After Fukushima more countries will switch to fossil fuels.
J. P. Morgan 2011 Climate Care. “Climate on … and urgent action, very soon, we still have a chance of succeeding," he said.
Helium-3 Eliminates Fossil Fuel Dependence And Solves Global Warming.
D’souza, Otalvaro & Singh 6 (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science by Marsha R. D’Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)
Energy is the most important driving … lunar colony as outlined in the technical section.

Global warming causes global nuclear wars—famine, migration, proliferation
Schwartz and Randall, 3- co-founder and current chairman of the Global Business Network organization focused on scenario thinking and planning; of the Global Business Network
(Peter Schwartz, and Doug Randall, October 2003, “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security”, http://www.climate.org/PDF/clim_change_scenario.pdf, AD: 6/23/11, SL)
The United States and Australia are … weapons capability, as will Israel, Iran, Egypt, and North Korea.

==Solvency== 

He3 can be extracted with current technology.
Bilder, 9 - Foley & Lardner-Bascom Emeritus Professor of Law, University of Wisconsin Law
School 
[Richard, A Legal Regime for the Mining of Helium-3
on the Moon: U.S. Policy Option, Fordham International Law Review, 33:2, 2009, http://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2180&context=ilj&sei-redir=1#search="united+states+helium+3+mining+law+review"]
How would lunar He-3 be … Moon's surface immediately after processing. 34 

Helium-3 Is A Prerequisite To Fusion Development—Status Quo Fusion Unattractive And Unlikely To Develop. 
Cheetham, Brad and Pastuf, Dan. 2008. [University at Buffalo, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. “Lunar Resources and Development: A brief overview of the possibilities for lunar resource extraction and development.” http://www.eng.buffalo.edu/~cheetham/index_files/Moon%20Paper%20441.pdf
The possibility of a Helium-3 fueled … He-3 source its likely fusion power could be figured out.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]