[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=Antimatter 1AC= 
Text: The United States federal government should create a magnetic scoop system in orbit of Saturn and Earth.
Antimatter propulsion and capture tech is ready for NASA specific use – only barrier was finding the actual antimatter. It’s the most efficient form of propulsion possible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bickford 6</span> (James Bickford, principle investigator for the Draper Laboratory “EXTRACTION OF ANTIPARTICLES CONCENTRATED IN PLANETARY MAGNETIC FIELDS” report to NIAC April 2006 [[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/1071Bickford.pdf]])
We just found the anti-matter belt – but the plan is still key to solve
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily Tech 8/8</span> (Daily Tech, leading online magazine for a well-educated, tech audience, 8/8/11 “Earth's Dirty Secret: Our Magnetic Field Traps Antimatter” [[http://www.dailytech.com/Earths+Dirty+Secret+Our+Magnetic+Field+Traps+Antimatter/article22375.htm]])


=Life Advantage= 
Scenario 1 is Get Off the Rock:
Capturing antiprotons is key to relativistic travel – 1010 times more efficient than the status quo
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bickford 6</span> (James Bickford, principle investigator for the Draper Laboratory “EXTRACTION OF ANTIPARTICLES CONCENTRATED IN PLANETARY MAGNETIC FIELDS” report to NIAC April 2006 [[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/1071Bickford.pdf]])
Small quantities of antimatter ... as the space shuttle.
That’s the only way to get off the rock and avoid extinction – there is no other feasible way
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Millis 10</span> (Marc Millis, speaker at the TED Talks, NASA's leading expert on Breakthrough Propulsion Physics, “It Is Rocket Science” 11/29/10)

The earth is eventually going ... the future of mankind tomorrow.

Scenario 2 is Humanism:
Relativistic travel is key to getting off the rock, world hunger, international cooperation, ending pollution and humanism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Millis 8</span> (Marc Millis, speaker at the TED Talks, NASA's leading expert on Breakthrough Propulsion Physics, 2/17/8 “HUMAN IMPACT” [[http://www.tauzero.aero/site/html/human_impact.html]])

Humanity Surviving Our entire future ... is the purpose of the Tau Zero Foundation.

Developing and exploring the universe key to uphold humanism- that’s key to maintaining progress and increasing value to life,
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin 94</span>- Robert Zubrin, Former Chairman of the National Space Society, President of the Mars Society (September/October 1994, “The Significance of the Martian Frontier,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-frontier.html]]) SP

Western humanist civilization as we know ... but Mars will not wait forever.

The aff’s humanism is the only way to generate ethics – evolution of humanity as opposed to a K’s entropy is the best way to evaluate life.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coon 11</span>(My name is Carleton Coon. I am the author of these essays, except as otherwise noted, and the owner/manager of this website. I am a retired US diplomat living in Washington Virginia, and in Washington DC. I was born in 1927, graduated from Harvard in 1949 (after serving briefly in the US Army at the end of World War II), and joined the US Foreign Service that same year. 37 years of government service saw me posted in a variety of countries stretching from Morocco to Nepal. From 1981-1984 I was US Ambassador to Nepal. I retired in 1985. After retirement I rediscovered some old interests that I had had little time to pursue during my diplomatic career. Music was one, mostly western classical but also non-western. With the help of rapidly evolving computer programs I composed a number of works, mostly chamber and piano. Meanwhile I renewed an old interest in human evolution, which I had inherited from my anthropologist father, and traveled widely in parts of the world I had not previously visited. I wrote essays on the human condition and several books. My interests increasingly focused on humanism and I became involved with the American Humanist Association. In 2004 I was elected to the AHA Board and shortly afterwards became AHA’s Vice President. I served as VP for five years, then retired (for the second time) and turned to family, writing, and further reflection on the human condition. [[http://www.progressivehumanism.com/progressive-humanism/entropy-and-life/]]




<span style="background-color: white;">It is based on a simple proposition: </span>life is the reverse of entropy__<span style="background-color: white;">,</span>__<span style="background-color: white;"> and vice versa. ...</span> ethical basis for his life.
=Econ Advantage= 
Total collapse of the world system is coming now – stagnant industries kill innovation, growth and block recovery
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Wallerstein ’11, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Immanuel, Senior research scholar at Yale University, “THE GLOBAL ECONOMY WON'T RECOVER, NOW OR EVER” <span class="CitesChar">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/unconventional_wisdom?page=0,9]]</span></span><span class="CitesChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> ) IG</span></span>
Virtually everyone everywhere-economists ...new system will be created, is elsewhere

The perception of antimatter travel capability jumpstarts the economy – thousands of new industries would be created, solves science education and society would mature to an entirely stable future economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frisbee 3</span> (Robert H. Frisbee Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Advisor to the NASA Center for the Utilization of Local Planetary Resources at the University of Arizona • Advisor to the NASA University Space Research Association Design Team at the University of Wisconsin (Madison), Task Manager of the Advanced Propulsion Concepts Study Activity 7/23/03 “HOW TO BUILD AN ANTIMATTER ROCKET FOR INTERSTELLAR MISSIONS SYSTEMS LEVEL CONSIDERATIONS IN DESIGNING ADVANCED PROPULSION TECHNOLOGY VEHICLES” at the 39th AIAAIASMEJSAWASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit)

Technologies Common to Any Interstellar...represented increased the priority for Apollo.


Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ...both within and between states</span> in a<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>dog-eat-dog world.
=Solvency= 
Propulsion is the largest barrier – after that everything falls into place and solves Newton’s laws
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Millis 8</span> (Marc Millis, speaker at the TED Talks, NASA's leading expert on Breakthrough Propulsion Physics, 2/17/8 “GETTING THERE” [[http://www.tauzero.aero/site/html/getting_there.html]])

The term "fuel" is used ... it is an entirely different situation.



NASA is key – they have the tacit knowledge to prevent gamma radiation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA 6</span> (NASA, 4/14/6 “New and Improved Antimatter Spaceship for Mars Missions” [[http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/home/antimatter_spaceship.html]])

Most self-respecting starships in ... gamma rays with about 400 times less energy.

None of their spending, storage or availability arguments apply – newest data shows anti-matter is naturally abundant around planets
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 8/7</span> (BBC 8/7/11 “Antimatter belt around Earth discovered by Pamela craft” [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-14405122?print=true]])

The find, described in Astrophysical Journal Letters, ... an idea explored in a report for Nasa's Institute for Advanced Concepts.

The plan is the only way to get the private sector on board – their current technology is not cost effective or efficient
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">APT 3</span> (Antimatter Propulsion Team, proposal for Professor Jennifer Lehman of the United States Air Force, “Proposal for the Involvement of the United States Air Force in the Research and Testing of an actual Propulsion System fueled by Antimatter” 12/7/3)

There are many benefits, advantages and questions ... trap antiprotons could bring the cost down to $5,000 per microgram [13

=2AC= 
==PTC Turns== 
<span class="UnderlineChar">**2. Extension of payroll cuts makes it a sacred cow – balloons the deficit**</span>
**Cook 9-8** [Nancy, budget and tax correspondent at the National Journal, “The Small-Bore Solution”, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/payroll-taxes-the-small-bore-solution-20110908]]]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Putting extra... fiscal responsibility.</span>

**3. Deficits collapse the economy and hegemony**
**Bergsten 09** [C. FRED BERGSTEN is Director of the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics. He was Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs from 1977 to 1981 and Assistant for International Economic Affairs to the National Security Council from 1969 to 1971, “The Dollar and the Deficits,” Foreign Affairs; Nov/Dec2009, Vol. 88 Issue 6, p20-38, 19p]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">EVEN AS efforts __...__</span> __increasingly compromised__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">4. Collapses social security-looming changes means now is key to regenerate revenue </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">PR Newswire 9-8</span>, “Payroll Tax Cut Extension Puts Social Security Payments at Risk”, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/payroll-tax-cut-extension-puts-social-security-payments-at-risk-129446573.html]]
__Extending the...__ points out.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">5. U.S. insolvency sparks devastating hyper-inflation that collapses China’s economy via dollar reserves</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Asia News 2008</span> (US debt approaches insolvency; Chinese currency reserves at risk, www.theneweffort.com/topic530.html)
__In the United ...__ __currency reserves.__


<span style="font-size: 16px;">6. Dollar collapse will ensure a US-China war-China’s economy will either collapse or they’ll be forced to dump</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mead 2004 [</span>Walter Russell Mead, – Senior Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations “America's STICKY Power,” //Foreign Policy//, Mar/Apr, Proquest]
Similarly, in ...<span style="font-size: 16px;"> likely to occur</span>.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">7. Payroll tax cut results in new permanently higher taxes</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reynolds 9/12</span> (Alan Reynolds, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and was formerly Director of Economic Research at the Hudson Institute, Research Director with National Commission on Tax Reform and Economic Growth, “[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/president-obamas-447-billion-tax-increase/|President Obama’s $447 Billion Tax Increase]],” 9/12/11) [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/president-obamas-447-billion-tax-increase/]]
In his S__...a bad one.__

<span style="font-size: 16px;">8. That kills jobs-turns the economy and offsets and gains</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Logan 9/19</span> (David Logan, economist at the Tax Foundation, researched tax policy at the Brookings Institution under Bill Gale in the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center as the Brookings Institution's Peter G. Peterson Foundation Endowed Fiscal Intern, bachelor's degree from Northwestern University, an MM from the University of Cincinnati and an MBA from Washington University in St. Louis, “Academic Research Suggests That the American Jobs Act Will Produce Few Jobs,” 9/19/11) [[http://taxfoundation.org/publications/show/27632.html]]
Permanent Tax Hikes__... tax hike.__
=Negative= 
==Politicization of Science 1NC== 
A. They don’t have an aff - Most recent NASA satellite data, from the satellites they say haven’t been put up yet, shows no heat retention – 0 risk of greenhouse effect. Prefer hard data over their computer models
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Business Times 7/29</span> (By IBTimes Staff Reporter, “Scientist Attempts to Debunk Global Warming: Legit Data or Political Ploy?”, 7/29/11, [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/189386/20110729/global-warming-roy-spencer-nasa-terra-debunked-al-gore-climate-change.htm]])
A scientist is claiming that data from a NASA satellite could disprove the theory of global warming. ...surrounding issues of freedom versus regulation, Andrew Dessler, a Texas A&M University of atmospheric sciences, said to LiveScience.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">B. Politicized science justifies things like eugenics – political programs hiding behind a false veil of science. This makes extinction inevitable. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Crichton 4</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> (Michael Crichton, postdoctoral fellow at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, researching public policy with Jacob Bronowski. He taught courses in anthropology at Cambridge University and writing at MIT, 2004 “State of Fear” [[http://www.michaelcrichton.net/essay-stateoffear-whypoliticizedscienceisdangerous.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Imagine that there is a new scientific ... And those few who did not adjust disappeared.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">C. The alternative sets a barrier between politics and science – only way to solve politics’ domination of science. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Murray 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> (Ian Murray, writer for the Washington Times, 1/13/11 “Politicized science costs us all” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jan/13/politicized-science-costs-us-all/)</span>
After a 21-month delay, White House science adviser ... Ike’s warning, scientific integrity will suffer.
==Glenbrooks== 
Round One:
Aff - Monitoring Sats
1NC: T Humans, Politicization of Science K, Politics, XO, Case (2 minutes)
2NR: Politicization of Science K + Case Defense

Round Three:
Aff - Debris
1NC: Security K, Politics, XO, T Humans, Case (3 Minutes)
2NR: Security K + Case Defense

Round Six:
Aff: Non Satellite ORS
1NC: Politics, Super Soldier CP, NFU CP, Security K, Case (1 Minute)
2NR: Politics DA, Super Soldier CP

Round Seven:
Aff: Debris
1NC: Security K, XO, Politics, Case (5 minutes)
2NR: XO, Politics





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]