**__HA! You thought that we would put our files here! Noooooooooob.__**

**__AFF -ORS__**

**Plan – The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding and support for the development and the deployment of operationally responsive space capabilities <span style="background-color: white;">which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.</span>**



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Advantage One – Hegemony**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**Multiple threats to US Space assets now – __only__ deterrence solves**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 08</span>** (Bruce W. MacDonald, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, served as senior director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the US, China, Space Weapons and U.S. Security, Council Special Report No. 38, September 2008, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=defensive+space+weapons&ots=OTkmlH1rBW&sig=9u5wh9QaeAWplSd9Q6Pc9lTgo5g#v=onepage&q=defensive%20space%20weapons&f=false,)

While China ... and miscalculation.

**ORS key to rapid reconstitution of space assets – deters space attacks and solves accidents**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flores 07</span>** (Peter, Major in the USAF, “UNTAPPED POTENTIAL: THE INFLUENCE OF INTERNATIONAL REGIMES AND ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE ON THE NEAR-SPACE CONCEPT”, June, pdf, )

Today, space ... <span class="underline">case, </span>hours.

**Only a risk of solvency- a space war or space attacks will stop all use of space**
**Forden, 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the...__of years.__</span>


**ORS is key to effective deterrence strategies**
**Doggrell 6** (Les Doggrell, Senior Project Engineer with Aerospace Corporation. A Vision for the Future of Military Space , Air and Space Power Journal. Summer 2006. NP. http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html )

IN FUTURE ... <span class="underline">satellite-navigation systems</span>



**Any attack or accident would destroy power projection and global leadership**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Farfour and Yee 08</span>** (George R. Farfour and Kenneth E. Yee, commander, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center, at Schriever AFB in Colorado and a National Defense Intelligence College and operations officer, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center at Schriever AFB in Colorado. No Space Capabilities—No Joint Fight, High Frontier Volume 4 Number. February 2008. Pages 38-39. http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080226-050.pdf )

<span class="underline">Taken together, ...</span> by comparison.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, hegemonic decline leads to transition wars – the impact is extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 90 </span>**(Joe, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and former Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard and one of the most influential and respected contemporary IR scholars, __pg 17)__

Perceptions of ... may end.


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States Hegemony solves all conflicts</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>** (Bradley, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at, The National Interest, December)

<span class="underline">A </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">grand</span><span class="underline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of a blitzkrieg.</span>

**Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates**
**Tellis, Ph.D., 7**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Ph.D. from U Chicago, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, the ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __further misperception.__</span>


**The impact is extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Straits Times 2k** [</span>Jun 25, LEXIS]

THE high-intensity ... everything else<span class="underline">.</span>
**ORS is key to long term space superiority**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPACE-X 04</span>** (AMERICAN SPACE TRANSPORT COMPANY, “Inside the Pentagon”, http://www.spacex.com/media.php?page=31)

Experiments using ... to this view.



**Effective space deterrence solves global deterrence and stability**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span>** (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15 http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf )

Although this ...and stability.

====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 2 is Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance systems</span>==== 

**Many ISR systems are failing and cannot continue to operate—ORS is key to enhance ISR, create an effective ISR system, and fix the current system**
**Petraeus 10.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David H. Petraeus, former commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Statement of General David H. Petraeus, U.S. army commander, U.S. Central command, Before the Senate Armed Service Committee on the Posture of U.S. central command, Senate and Armed Services Committee. 3/16/10, page 47. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://wenku.baidu.com/view/c4866174f46527d3240ce069.html]]</span> )</span>

Detailed and ... __communication systems.__

<span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ORS allows for a complete and efficient ISR system---this isn’t possible in the status quo</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rao et al. 08</span>** ( Anvil V. Rao, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. A Concept for Operationally Responsive Space Mission Planning Using Aeroassisted Orbital Transfer, AIAA. April 28–May 1, 2008, Pages 2-3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The current ... and hurricanes</span><span class="Underline0">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Scenario 1 is Iraq</span>**

**Iraqi commanders use the U.S.’s ISR**
**Harris 09.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Barry Harris, staff writer. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=11396&pageid=&pagename=|Stabilizing Iraq Provides Intelligence Lessons for Afghanistan]]</span>, The Cutting Edge. 6/15/09. NP <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=11396&pageid=20&pagename=Security]]</span> )</span>

The robust...<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> in Afghanistan.</span>


**ISR helps the Iraqi military deter insurgent activity.**
**Zachary 09.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stacia Zachary, USAFCENT Combat Camera News Team. Iraqi Air Force brings ISR capabilities online, U.S. Air Force Central. 8/30/09. NP. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afcent.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123164549]]</span> )</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">Intelligence</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> collection ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__insurgent activity.__ </span>

**ISR solves for Iraqi instability---solves drug trafficking, weapons trafficking, and insurgencies**
**Downs 08**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Michael L. Downs, Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Air Force. Rethinking the Combined Force Air Component Commander's Intelligence, Surveillance, and</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Reconnaissance Approach to Counterinsurgency, Air and Space Power Journal. 9/1/08, NP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">To counter ...__and conduct.__</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Insurgency attacks create Iraqi instability </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jha et al. 10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Manoj K. Jha, a professor at Morgan State University. Modeling the Insurgent Activities with a Geographic Information System: A Case Study from Iraq, The World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society. 1/19/10. Page 214. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wseas.us/e-library/conferences/2010/Harvard/CISST/CISST-38.pdf]]</span> )</span>

__The strategies...__ __about something__

**Internal instability in Iraq sparks regional wars, terrorism, and collapses the global economy**

**Baker and Hamilton, 08.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James Baker and Lee Hamilton, both Co-Chairs of the Iraq Study Group. The Iraq Study Group Report, The Baker Institute. 4/21/08. Page 28. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/iraqstudygroup_findings.pdf]]</span>)</span>

__Continuing violence ...__ his country.


**Terrorism leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sean **Hannity**, Fox News Political Analyst, **2004**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism, pg. 6]</span>

But the... __than ever.__

**Middle East wars cause global nuclear war**
**Steinbach 2**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John, nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization, Center for Research on Globalization, March, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]], AD 7/7/11) AV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, the ...</span> world conflagration<span class="underline">."</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pedagogical Colonialism</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic]]1AC - Capitol Classic</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this constitution for the United States of America.</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">We the people of the Debate Community, in order to form a more perfect society, establish just educational practices, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the curses of colonialism and genocide to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this resolution for the people of the debate community.</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the earth's mesosphere.</span>**</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856]]<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856</span></span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">**TIME FOR A HISTORY LESSON**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Look deep inside, actualize</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">my body is a product of colonialism and genocide</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">it comes from a place my so called people call "Bharat";</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">From a place the government recognizes as the Republic of India,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But back in the day it was refereed to the British Raj.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Slaves to the British occupation, who stripped the land of natural resources.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">People speak as if it's over but the effects are still felt today.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Look deep inside, actualize</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My mind is a product of colonialism and genocide.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It comes from a place outsiders call "debate";</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It comes from a place the inner circle calls debate camp, the tabroom, the 1AC, the neg block, the 3NR, the RFD< the cards you read, team practice, the hallway, the pairings, the rumors; the awards ceremony.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Slaves to the current set of accepted knowledge, any outsider is stripped of the ballot where the effects are felt in one's life.</span>**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1996 was the time where I had no choice in my birth.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1856 was the time where my ancestors chose to fight back against the crimes of colonial capitalism.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">We were portrayed as brown, and called "Hindus" which translated to "dirty criminal" in some Western launguage.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The masses were hungry when they came to plunder, steal, and colonize</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">with the people and the land both getting raped.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">When they came to the country, to deal out our mellow fate.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">In a time where there was no regulation, red or yellow tape.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">With or without hate,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Demons hide,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Deep inside,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">So many sleepless nights</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">reading my</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">speech and I'm</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">speaking right</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">to win that prize.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">See my eyes,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They're bleeding, right?</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The reason's why</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the people away from my life</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">seem to die.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">"No need to fight,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">If you really want a peaceful life,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">just be polite."</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I'm really not surprised,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">that when they tell the lie</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">that I'm a terrorist,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I tell them this:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the relevance:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They came here in search of the youth fountain</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">but the ancient crimes of Europe go</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">excused, forgotten, and unfounded.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">The impacts of colonization outweigh any possible benefits</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">This is a systematic defense of non-European civilizations.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Truly, there are stains that it is beyond the power of man to wipe out and that can never be fully expiated. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">But let us speak about the colonized. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I see clearly what colonization has destroyed: the wonderful Indian civilizations - and neither Deterding nor Royal Dutch nor Standard Oil will ever console me for the Aztecs and the Incas. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I see clearly the civilizations; condemned to perish at a future date, into which it has introduced a principle of ruin: the South Sea islands, Nigeria, Nyasaland. I see less clearly the contributions it has made. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Security? Culture? The rule of law? In the meantime, I look around and wherever there are colonizers and colonized face to face, I see force, brutality, cruelty, sadism, conflict, and, in a parody of education, the hasty manufacture of a few thousand subordinate functionaries, "boys," artisans, office clerks, and interpreters necessary for the smooth operation of business. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I spoke of contact. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Between colonizer and colonized there is room only for forced labor, intimidation, pressure, the police, taxation, theft, rape, compulsory crops, contempt, mistrust, arrogance, self-complacency, swinishness, brainless elites, degraded masses. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">No human contact, but relations of domination and submission which turn the colonizing man into a class-room monitor, an army sergeant, a prison guard, a slave driver, and the indigenous man into an instrument of production. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">My turn to state an equation: colonization = "thing-ification." </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I hear the storm. They talk to me about progress, about "achievements," diseases cured, improved standards of living. </span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about societies drained of their essence, cultures trampled underfoot, institutions undermined, lands confiscated, religions smashed, magnificent artistic creations destroyed, extraordinary //<span style="font-family: Arial;">possibilities </span>//wiped out. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They throw facts at my head, statistics, mileages of roads, canals, and railroad tracks. </span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about thousands of men sacrificed to the Congo-Ocean2. I am talking about those who, as I write this, are digging the harbor of Abidjan by hand. I am talking about millions of men torn from their gods, their land, their habits, their life-from life, from the dance, from wisdom.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I am talking about millions of men in whom fear has been cunningly instilled, who have been taught to have an inferiority complex, to tremble, kneel, despair, and behave like flunkeys. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They dazzle me with the tonnage of cotton or cocoa that has been exported, the acreage that has been planted with olive trees or grapevines. </span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about natural //<span style="font-family: Arial;">economies </span>//that have been disrupted - harmonious and viable economies adapted to the indigenous population - about food crops destroyed, malnutrition permanently introduced, agricultural development oriented solely toward the benefit of the metropolitan countries, about the looting of products, the looting of raw materials. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They pride themselves on abuses eliminated. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I too talk about abuses, but what I say is that on the old ones - very real - they have superimposed others - very detestable. They talk to me about local tyrants brought to reason; but I note that in general the old tyrants get on very well with the new ones, and that there has been established between them, to the detriment of the people, a circuit of mutual services and complicity. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They talk to me about civilization. I talk about proletarianization and mystification. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For my part, I make a systematic defense of the non-European civilizations.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Therefore Kevin and I advocate the rejection of all policy options and pedagogical options for the extension of state power in favor of a politics for the decolonization of the mind. We do this through a reflection on our personal experiences so we can gain education and expand the ongoing process of epistemological growth.</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">The 1AC is a rejection of all that solidifies colonialism</span>****<span style="font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">So the real problem, you say, is to return to them. No, I repeat. We are not men for whom it is a question of "either-or." For us, the problem is not to make a utopian and sterile attempt to repeat the past, but to go beyond. It is not a dead society that we want to revive. We leave that to those who go in for exoticism. Nor is it the present colonial society that we wish to prolong, the most putrid carrion that ever rotted under the sun. It is a new society that we must create, with the help of all our brother slaves, a society rich with all the productive power of modern times, warm with all the fraternity of olden days. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For some examples showing that this is possible, we can look to the Soviet Union. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">But let us return to M. Jules Romains: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">One cannot say that the petty bourgeois has never read anything. On the contrary, he has read everything, devoured everything. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Only, his brain functions after the fashion of certain elementary types of digestive systems. It filters. And the filter lets through only what can nourish the thick skin of the bourgeois' clear conscience. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Before the arrival of the French in their country, the Vietnamese were people of an old culture, exquisite and refined. To recall this fact upsets the digestion of the Banque d'Indochine. Start the forgetting machine! </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">These Madagascans who are being tortured today, less than a century ago were poets, artists, administrators? Shhhhh! Keep your lips buttoned! And silence falls, silence as deep as a safe! Fortunately, there are still the Negroes. Ah! the Negroes! Let's talk about the Negroes! </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">All right, let's talk about them. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">About the Sudanese empires? About the bronzes of Benin? Shango sculpture? That's all right with me; it will give us a change from all the sensationally bad art that adorns so many European capitals. About African music. Why not? </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">And about what the first explorers said, what they saw… Not those who feed at the company mangers! But the d'Elbees, the Marchais, the Pigafettas! And then Frobenius! Say, you know who he was, Frobenius? And we read together: "Civilized to the marrow of their bones! The idea of the barbaric Negro is a European invention." </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The petty bourgeois doesn't want to hear any more. With a twitch of his ears he flicks the idea away. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The idea, an annoying fly. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Therefore, comrade, you will hold as enemies - loftily, lucidly, consistently - not only sadistic governors and greedy bankers, not only prefects who torture and colonists who flog, not only corrupt, check-licking politicians and subservient judges, but likewise and for the same reason, venomous journalists, goitrous academicians, wreathed in dollars and stupidity, ethnographers who go in for metaphysics, presumptuous Belgian theologians, chattering intellectuals born stinking out of the thigh of Nietzsche, the paternalists, the embracers, the corrupters, the back-slappers, the lovers of exoticism, the dividers, the agrarian sociologists, the hoodwinkers, the hoaxers, the hot-air artists, the humbugs, and in general, all those who, performing their functions in the sordid division of labor for the defense of Western bourgeois society, try in diverse ways and by infamous diversions to split up the forces of Progress-even if it means denying the very possibility of Progress - all of them tools of capitalism, all of them, openly or secretly, supporters of plundering colonialism, all of them responsible, all hateful, all slave-traders, all henceforth answerable for the violence of revolutionary action.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">And sweep out all 'the obscurers, all the inventors of subterfuges, the charlatans and tricksters, the dealers in gobbledygook. And do not seek to know whether personally these gentlemen are in good or bad faith, whether personally they have good or bad intentions. Whether personally - that is, in the private conscience of Peter or Paul - they are or are not colonialists, because the essential thing is that their highly problematical subjective good faith is entirely irrelevant to the objective social implications of the evil work they perform as watchdogs of colonialism.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 2: 2011]]<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 2: 2011</span></span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">When I was a novice I was told I would be one of the greats. I would MASTER policy making, through Counterplans that do nothing, DA’s with impacts in far away lands; K’s that spew random philosophy irrelevant to our struggle. I came close, I was determined to ace this game,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Now I don’t wanna play it for how long I’ve waited. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Little did I know</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">That I was being a racist.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I’ve changed and I’ve strayed from the practices we adopted</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I play but I have to be hip hoppin’</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">From Rick Rosses to Lil’ Waynes</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Like hip hop, debate’s become a little plain.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Just the same, the game erases me and changes you</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">So racist complacency is all that’s accepted as proof</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">That it makes us afraid to see the problems through objective truth. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">It’s your choice, but how you choose that’s significant</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debates are not as real as this,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">With our voice and our belligerence</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Gets down to the fundamental reason you rap</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The game is just wack,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The stack of their chips, has to be big:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The impact it has on the kids,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">When you’re ranked by your wits. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Tells me debate is where the factory is.</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Discussion of colonialism is potent in the context of societal response to space exploration</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Lively 2K</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2. DB.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">On 12 October 1492 Christopher Columbus landed at Guanahani in the Bahamas. Over half a century earlier, in 1434, a Portuguese expedition had successfully rounded the long-feared Cape Bojador on the Atlantic coast of modern Morocco for the first time, thus laying open the sea route to sub-Saharan Africa. The cumulative impact of these events on the way that Europeans thought about themselves and the world around them was comparable to the shock at contacting intelligent life from another planet. For most people who participated in or knew about Europe’s discoveries, everything they heard about these strange peoples confirmed an idea of European superiority and distinctive destiny. Yet even that formulation of superiority demanded a new structure of thought, a new way of assimilating puzzling questions and new realities. And for a few others, over time, these new horizons were to provide new perspectives on Europe itself – on its religion, its aesthetics, its social structures, its morality.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For Europeans of the fifteenth century, the Atlantic Ocean west of the Canaries and Azores was the outer space of its day. Indeed, Columbus’s very mission to reach Asia by a westward route had a cosmological basis in the belief, drawn from the rediscovered writings of Ptolemy, that the world was a sphere suspended in the void. A century and a half after Columbus’s voyage, America was still the great unknown. Cyrano de Bergerac’s //<span style="font-family: Arial;">Histoire comique des Etats et Empires de la Lune et du Soleil</span>// was published in two parts in 1657 and 1662, and this early version of H.G. Wells begins with a landing in America, before the final ascent to the moon and sun is made. Extraterrestrial travel is projected imaginatively as an extension of the discoveries already being made in that New World beyond the empty ocean.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Sub-Saharan Africa, too, was an expanse of the unknown into which could be poured endless speculation. The anthropophagi and monstrous men envisaged in St Augustine’s description of sub-Saharan Africa were not to be expelled until the Scotsman Mungo Park and other Europeans penetrated the interior of West Africa in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It was not until Burton, Speke and Stanley made their expeditions into East and Central Africa in the nineteenth century that the legends dating from the writings of Ptolemy concerning the ‘Mountains of the Moon’ and the source of the Nile came to be confirmed. Even in the 1890s and 1900s, we find writers like Rider Haggard and John Buchan perpetuating fanciful myths such as the one of a white people, or at least a white ruler, at the heart of Africa. These were the //<span style="font-family: Arial;">X Files</span>// of their day.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The imagination can be an instigator of historical change; it was the speculation as to what might lie beyond the limits of the known that spurred Columbus to make that first voyage across the Atlantic. But the imagination can also be a way of coping with change, of assimilating it to what is already known. From the ‘fantastic voyage’ narratives of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, through the exotic imperial romances of the nineteenth, and up to the science fiction of the twentieth century, imaginative literature has been a means –like any mythology – of mediating between the domestic and that which lies at and beyond the limits of knowledge.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debate must make the difficult change to a multicultural education through self examination and change or risk the extinction of debate.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Valdivia-Sutherland '98</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: verdana; font-size: 11px;">Cynthia-; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensic Programs”; National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22; [[http://www.phirhopi.org/prp/spkrpts5.2/sutherland.htm]]. DB.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">It has been argued that forensics is (or should be) primarily an educational enterprise, rooted in pedagogy, rhetoric, and research. If this is so, then in advancing into the 21st century, an era in which societies will increasingly become multicultural, it makes sense to adopt Albert and Triandis' (1985) objective of effectuating intercultural education within a multicultural society. The aim of this objective is "to prepare individuals to function effectively in both their culture of origin and in their new culture" (p. 391). Implementing this objective in forensics will not be easy. Change never is. However, while human beings do not automatically embrace the unknown, inability to move beyond a state of stasis equates to stagnation in human development. Within the world of forensics, coaches, critics, and competitors must continually adapt, evolving in their interactions with an ever-changing environment, or risk extinction. The possibility for forensic* multicultural evolution can be strengthened in several ways. First, those of us involved in the activity must hone our self-diagnostic skills; in other words, we must consistently and honestly examine what we are doing, why, and with what effect. Are we "doing the greatest good for the greatest number?" If not, why not? Second, we must recognize the potential for educational gain when we expose ourselves and our students to multicultural awareness, knowledge, and acceptance. Not only will our learning experience be enriched, but we may also be led to explore identities and to question cultural domination, thereby increasing acceptance of differences. Finally, we must begin to begin. We cannot advance beyond our current state until we initiate action. This can be accomplished in many different ways. Here are a few: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">a. Recruitment of forensics competitors through on campus multicultural clubs and organizations. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">b. Development of non-traditional forensics programs. For example: a one-unit non-traveling team that exposes students to and educates them about forensics and/or the use of intramural competitions. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">c. Adoption of debate topics centered on global rather than national concerns. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">d. Expository speeches geared to inform about other cultures. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">e. Interpretive programs adopted from another culture's canons of literature. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">f. Creation of new events or a return to old ones (such as oratorical speeches which harmonize with African speaking styles). </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">g. Experiential activities designed to expose individuals in forensics to other cultural views. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">h. Research assessing current forensic multiculturalism.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debate has served as pedagogical colonialism-the 1AC is a performative transformation of debate into a tool for the decoloonization of the mind.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dascal '7</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marcelo-PhD epistimology and literature and professor of philosophy at TelAviv University; "Colonizing and Decolonizing Minds"; p.1-5. DS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Whereas the most visible forms of political colonialism have for the most part disappeared from the planet by the end of </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the millennium, several of its consequences remain with us. Criticism of colonialism, accordingly, has shifted its focus to its more subtle and lasting manifestations. Prominent among these are the varieties of what came to be known as the ‘colonization of the mind’. This is one of the forms of ‘epistemic violence’ that it is certainly the task of philosophers to contribute to identify and struggle against. ‘Postcolonial’ thinkers have undertaken not only to analyze this phenomenon, but also to devise strategies for effectively combating and hopefully eradicating colonialism’s most damaging aspect – the taking possession and control of its victims’ minds.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">My purpose in this paper is to contribute, qua philosopher, to both of these undertakings. I begin by trying to clarify the nature of the colonization of the mind and its epistemic underpinnings and the typical reactions to it. Next, I examine examples of these reactions with their corresponding analyses and strategies. The assumptions underlying them reveal certain inherent paradoxes, which call into question the possibility of a full decolonization of mind. I conclude by suggesting an alternative strategy and a series of means to implement it.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">What is ‘colonization of the mind’?In this section, the range of phenomena that fall under the label ‘colonization of the mind’ is extended beyond its usual application and briefly toured; the main features of the phenomenon are described; its epistemic characteristics are analyzed; and the typical ‘instinctive’ reactions to mind colonization are considered.1.1 The metaphor ‘colonization of the mind’ highlights the following characteristics of the phenomenon under scrutiny here: (a) the intervention of an external source – the ‘colonizer’ – in the mental sphere of a subject or group of subjects – the ‘colonized’; (b) this intervention affects central aspects of the mind’s structure, mode of operation, and contents; (c) its effects are long-lasting and not easily removable; (d) there is a marked asymmetry of power between the parties involved; (e) the parties can be aware or unaware of their role of colonizer or colonized; and (f) both can participate in the process voluntarily or involuntarily.These characteristics are shared by a variety of processes of mind colonization, regardless of whether they occur in socio-political situations that are literally categorized as ‘colonial’. Therefore, ‘colonization of the mind’ may take place through the transmission of mental habits and contents by means of social systems other than the colonial structure. For example, via the family, traditions, cultural practices, religion, science, language, fashion, ideology, political regimentation, the media, education, etc.Consider education, for instance. The Brazilian educator Paulo Freire has analyzed a typically mind-colonizing educational paradigm, which he suggestively dubbed the ‘banking’ model. In this paradigm, a commodity (knowledge) is ‘deposited’ by those who have it (the teachers) in the minds of those (the pupils) who don’t have it; the task of both is basically passive: the former’s, to transmit and the latter’s to absorb ‘knowledge’.[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - River Hill (MD) - Jake Smith & D Srivastava#_edn1|[i]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1.2 The ‘banking’ model displays the characteristic //<span style="font-family: Arial;">epistemic</span>// nature of mind colonization: What grants the colonizer (in this case the teacher) the right to intervene in the pupil’s mind, thereby colonizing it, is the fact that the former possesses and the latter lacks //<span style="font-family: Arial;">knowledge</span>//. This is a commodity that everybody is presumed to desire by virtue of its epistemic properties, namely //<span style="font-family: Arial;">truth</span>// and //<span style="font-family: Arial;">universality</span>//, whence its //<span style="font-family: Arial;">applicability</span>//and //<span style="font-family: Arial;">utility</span>// derive.</span>

**__NEG__**

=====Framework Cards===== 

<span class="Underline">**Should means a policy recomendation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Carter, 02** (2/11/02, Rebecca S., “An Ordinance Concerning The Land Application Of Sewer Sludge In Buckingham County,” http://www.buckinghamcountyva.org/zoning/sewersludgeord.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">**"Should"... recommendation.**</span>


<span class="Underline">**Should means obligation – only predictable meaning**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Collins English Dictionary, 03** (theFreeDictionary.com, “Should,” http://www.thefreedictionary.com/should)**Red**</span>
<span class="Underline">**should** [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ʃʊ</span><span class="Underline">d]</span>
<span class="Underline">vb</span>
<span class="Underline">Usage: **Should ..** granted asylum</span>


<span class="Underline">**Should implies obligation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**American Heritage Dictionary, 09** (theFreeDictionary.com, “Should,” http://www.thefreedictionary.com/should)**Red**</span>
<span class="Underline">**should** (shd)</span>
aux.v. Past tense... a note.


<span class="Underline">**Resolved implies legislation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Robert, 15** – general (Henry M., //Roberts Rules of Order Revised,// “Part I. Rules of Order, Art. I. How Business Is Conducted in Deliberative Assemblies,” http://www.rulesonline.com/rror-01p.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Motions and ... of "Resolved."</span>



====Fem-K==== 

<span class="Underline">**While the aff claims to transverse gender, they maintain the construct of sexual difference, which destroys agency and humyn freedom. The alternative is to embrace an ethic without sex and gender**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)</span>

<span class="Underline">**Removing, transcending...**</span> to foster.



<span class="Underline">**The aff fails – their analysis of gender categories reproduces the notion of gender and prevent us from overcoming the binaries they qritiq**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">Many **queer ...**</span> underpin it.


<span class="Underline">**Feminist science fiction reifies gender by valorizing femininity** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">**By maintaining ...**hierarchy inversion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Sex can be transversed – only the alt creates value to life** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">The ideas..</span> **own freedom**”

<span class="Underline">**The aff maintains hetero/homo binaries based on sexual difference – the alternative rejects these biological identities which solves case be erasing the differences upon which their hierarchies are built**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">I suggest ...</span> **orient towards.**

<span class="Underline">**The alternative creates agency – it allows us to situate our resistance**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">**These different ...**</span>of freedom


<span class="Underline">**The role of the ballot is to foster a consciousness of the construction of sex as a category of identity – this lets us escape the enframing categories of the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248)**Red**</span>

<span class="Underline">What this ...</span>**identity categories.**