[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Inherency:the Allen Telescope array is back online now.</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">The State Column</span>__**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, [[http://www.thestatecolumn.com/articles/author/tsc_admin/|Staff]] Column, Thursday, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">12/08</span>__**<span style="font-size: 13px;">/2011, “U.S. military joins with SETI in search for life”, http://www.thestatecolumn.com/articles/u-s-military-joins-with-seti-in-search-for-life/</span>
It seems <span style="font-size: 12px;">the U.S. military civilization capable of building radio transmitters.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">But the reasonforthis isSETI has been taken over by the military to hide the truth about the ETI: they are coming now, just a Webre has predicted!</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Pat </span>////**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14px;">Parrinello</span>__**////<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">, “Giant Spaceships Heading Towards Earth”, Feburary 10, 20</span>////**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14px;">10</span>__**////<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">, Bombshock, http://www.bombshock.com/aliens-and-ufos/giant-spaceships-heading-towards-earth.html</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">Recent light has been shed</span>. Believe it or not! Like it or not!

Obama is an Alien Complicit in the Takeover of the World and will never expose the ETI.
Art <span style="font-size: 12px;">Greenfield</span> (UFO researcher and writer, author of WARNING),”The Reptilian Candidate” 20<span style="font-size: 12px;">05</span>, [http://ufosandalienphenomena.wordpress.com/2008/11/03/the-reptilian-candidate/]
<span style="font-size: 8px;">During the George Noory </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">shaped, resembling the Gray aliens.</span>

Plan: United States Federal Reserve Bank should contact ETI using the Allen telescope array.

Contention 1: Freedom
Our current system without Exopolitics is in reality slavery
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Ed </span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">Komarek</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Senior Exopolitical researcher, June 20</span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">08</span>__**
http://authors.exopaedia.org/edkomarek/Exopolitics_Book_Komarek.pdf

<span style="font-size: 12px;">The national security state is undermining and destabilizing our Republic. </span>

SETI will expose the conspiracy: it was shut down to prevent this. Only by refunding without military SETI can we expose the conspiracy.
**__<span style="color: #000000;">Paraniki</span>__**, “SETI needs our help”, May 14, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">11</span>__**, Paranormal Utopia, [[http://paranormalutopia.com/2011/05/seti-needs-our-help911/]]
<span style="font-size: 12px;">This was completely planned </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">efforts at </span>[[@http://www.setiquest.org/|setiQuest.org]]<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and </span>[[http://live.seti.hg94.com/|setiQuest Explorer]]<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>


Conspiracy by military-intelligence organizations and corporations have hidden evidence of aliens, destroying power of the legitimate government and threatening liberty as we know it.
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Michael E. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Salla</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">, (PhD in Government, taught at School of International Service, American University, Washington DC, and the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia, currently Transformational Peace as a Researcher in Residence in the Center for Global Peace) “POLITICAL MANAGEMENT OF THE EXTRATERRESTRIAL PRESENCE: THE CHALLENGE TO DEMOCRACY AND LIBERTY IN AMERICA”, July 4, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">03</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6px;">Political management of the ET </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">to liberty Eisenhower was alluding to. </span>

American Imperialism, enabled by denying aliens will terminate in Nuclear War and the End of Humanity
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Noam </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Chomsky</span>__**<span style="font-size: 13px;">, Prof of Linguistics at MIT, “Imminent Crises: Threats and Opportunities,” Monthly Review, June 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 13px;">http://www.monthlyreview.org/0607nc.htm</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">)</span>
Regrettably, there are all all of this passed without comment.

The alien conspiracy leads to genocide, war, mind control and crime.
Tyson **__<span style="color: #000000;">Lewis</span>__** and Richard **__<span style="color: #000000;">Kahn</span>__** Phd university of Los Angeles 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">05</span>__** “The Reptoid Hypothesis: Utopian and Dystopian Representational Motifs in David Icke’s Alien Conspiracy Theory” pg 9-11 Jstor
<span style="font-size: 6px;">Before we begin to explore the </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">surveillance, and restrict individual freedoms.</span>
Contention 2: Contact

Our current quarantine is ending: ETI is coming, but the military-industrial complex will never give up it’s power. We must take back SETI to allow contact!
Alfred **__<span style="color: #000000;">Webre</span>__**, Yale-trained environmental lawyer, former General Counsel to New York’s Environmental Protection Administration and International director of the Institute for Cooperation in Space, Exopolitics: Politics Government and Law in the Universe, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">05</span>__** ([[http://ebookee.org/Exopolitics-Politics-Government-and-Law-in-the-Universe_514119.html]])
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence open membership in interplanetary society?</span>

Now is a crucial time for the Earth to be Integrated into Intergalactic Civilization: our current warfare economy is the reason for our exclusion. Rejecting the military control of our society is key to contact.
Alfred **__<span style="color: #000000;">Webre</span>__**, Yale-trained environmental lawyer, former General Counsel to New York’s Environmental Protection Administration and International director of the Institute for Cooperation in Space, “Politics, Government, and Law in the Universe,” Journal of World Affairs, Summer 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">08</span>__** ([[http://exopolitics.blogs.com/exopolitics/2008/11/world-affairs-the-journal-of-international-issues-exopolitics-and-a-positive-human-future-by-alfred-lambremont-webre-jd-m.html]])
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The full context is that we the beginning of the New Earth and the New Heaven.</span>

Earth’s Incorporation into Universal Society Will Eliminate War, Poverty and Environmental Destruction
Alfred **__<span style="color: #000000;">Webre</span>__**, Yale-trained environmental lawyer, former General Counsel to New York’s Environmental Protection Administration and International director of the Institute for Cooperation in Space, Exopolitics: Politics Government and Law in the Universe, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">05</span>__** ([[http://ebookee.org/Exopolitics-Politics-Government-and-Law-in-the-Universe_514119.html]])
Compare these false, negative that is wedded to the past.

There is No Risk of Nuclear War—ETI Will Block the Possibility of Nuclear Strikes
Michael **__<span style="color: #000000;">Salla</span>__**, former Assistant Professor in International Peace and Conflict Resolution at American University, “Obama’s zero nuclear weapons speech & extraterrestrial UFOs,” Expolotics Examiner, April 4th, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">09</span>__** ([[http://www.examiner.com/x-2383-Honolulu-Exopolitics-Examiner~y2009m4d4-Obamas-nuclear-weapons-free-world--extraterrestrial-UFOs]])
Salas has written about his <span style="font-size: 12px;">this involves interference with nuclear weapons. </span>

Continued denial of the exopolitical truth is the root cause of all of human society’s problems.
<span style="font-size: 13px;">“Catastrophic UFO/ET Non-Disclosure National Security Threats” Ed</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Komarek </span>__**<span style="font-size: 13px;">7/8/</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">09</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8px;">All of us are plagued by short </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12px;">of the past sixty years. </span>__**

Aliens will give us insanely advanced technology.
Allen **__<span style="color: #000000;">Tough</span>__**, April 21, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">06</span>__**, University of Toronto, Prof. Allen Tough is a noted social scientist, author, educator, and futurist, Positive consequences of SETI before detection, How to Achieve Contact: Five Promising Strategies, [[http://ieti.org/tough/articles/strategy.htm]]
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Extraterrestrial intelligence</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, however</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">is not music, art, and the purpose of life. </span>

Contention 3: Fear
Our current society fears the other. The neg will claim Aliens will kill us, that they are out there and are a threat we should be worried about.
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">Jonathan Leake, “</span>Don’t talk to aliens, warns Stephen Hawking”, **__<span style="font-size: 14px;">The Times</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 11px;">April 25, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">10</span>__**
http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/science/space/article7107207.ece
<span style="font-size: 12px;">THE aliens are out there and </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">the capacity of our brains.</span>

Our fear of aliens is due to projecting our behavior patterns onto aliens, fueled by our xenophobic nature: we are the true aggressors.
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Billy </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Meier</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> (UFO contactee of the Plejaren Federation and Prophet of the New Time.)**, “**Extraterrestrials“, 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">97</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">, http://futureofmankind.co.uk/meier/gaiaguys/extraterrestrials.htm</span>
Yes, there are humans who has renounced the practice of retribution.

Fear of aliens is conspiracy by government to justify continued military spending. Your arguments are a xenophobic belief created the government by a combination of movies and media that portray aliens as evil.
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Billy </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">Meier</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> (UFO contactee of the Plejaren Federation and Prophet of the New Time.)**, “**Extraterrestrials“, 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14px;">97</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">, http://futureofmankind.co.uk/meier/gaiaguys/extraterrestrials.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The US Government, so asserts as traumatic by many “victims”.</span>

Furthermore, hysteria over alien threats is an expression of our displaced racial anxieties.
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Christopher F. </span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14px;">Roth</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 20</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14px;">05</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 91-2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">An occasional hope expressed has to be providing some answers.</span>

Exo-racism can only be averted by rejecting the Hollywood portrayals of ET as invaders or bodysnatchers. We must see them as benefactors, instead of buying into the claim of military we must fear the other.
Eric Melcher (communicator by trade and a science fiction fan by hobby), “Racism, Fear and Extraterrestrials”, **__<span style="color: #000000;">Alien First Contact</span>__**, September 13, 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">10</span>__**, http://firstcontact29.blogspot.com/2010/09/racism-fear-and-extraterrestrials.html
<span style="font-size: 8px;">We’re a pretty tough bunch. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">the hate groups lining up.</span>

Identifying with the Other and abandoning ego-formation disrupts social fantasy, opening discursive space for de-alienation. WE NEED TO FIRST SEEK THE ALIEN OTHER IN ORDER TO ACCEPT THE ALIEN OTHER!
Stavrakakis 99 (Yannis Stavrakakis, Fellow, University of Essex, LACAN AND THE POLITICAL: THINKING THE POLITICS, 1999, 133)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">By saying ‘We are all with the lack in the Other</span>.

This acceptance of the other helps to prevent the logic behind genocide.
Slavoj Zizek, The Giant of Ljubjana, Looking Awry, 1992 (p.12)
It is Sisyphus, however, who <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">its power over us grows.</span>

Finally, conspiracy theories are an alternative form of truth and should be accepted as non-mainstream logic. You must accept the unlikely if we are ever able to solve otherization.
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Paul </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Vallely</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">, “Why we all love a good conspiracy theory; We take refuge in suspicion and blame, as with the 'murder' of Dr David Kelly, for the most understandable of reasons”, The Independent (British newspaper), October 24, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Scholastic philosophy is always got a bit of a theory about that.</span>
=Negative= 

__Disads__:

Chinese dams DA
Heg Good DA
Ice Age DA
Virillio DA
Wipeout DA
Obama Recess Appointments DA

__Counterplans__:

Private Chinese Actor CP (net benefit CCP)
HUD CP
Singularity CP
Blake Classism PIC

__Kritik:__

Solipsism K
Lacan K
Bullying K (neg wins good)
Johnny 23 K

__Procedurals:__

Computer Theory
Uncondo Bad
Joke Theory
R Spec
Explore is to think T
Substantial is 642 satellites T

__Overall Strat:__

Bog down the aff in random CPs and DAs while we run a new kritik in the block, but in the end we kick the K and go with whatever was dropped. Expect lots of theory.

If you aren't Blake and have questions, please email [[mailto:luke.mielke@comcast.net|luke.mielke@comcast.net]]

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]