[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==SPS== 
Plan: The United States federal government should deploy space based solar power.

Contention 1 is Inherency
Tech barriers to SPS have been resolved – all that remains is government inaction
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Edmonton Journal</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, Austin Mardon received an honourary doctorate of laws from the University of Alberta on Friday. He is a member of the Order of Canada and is a full member of the International Academy of Astronautics . Pauline Balogun is a U of A student who is interested in green technologies for the future, 6/12/</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, “Solar satellites key to green energy”, http://www.edmontonjournal.com/technology/Solar+satellites+green+energy/4933251/story.html//jchen//</span></span></span>
//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">With gas prices on the … just be found in outer space.</span>//


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Cambria; text-align: left;">Contention 2 is Energy</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Cambria; text-align: left;"> Scenario 1 is Oil</span></span>
//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Oil shocks will start by 2012 – newest geological data prove</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Chris </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Martenson</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, PhD, economic researcher & futurist specializing in energy and resource depletion, “Why Time Is Short Now That We're Past Peak Oil”, 5/27/</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, Business Insider, http://www.businessinsider.com/why-time-is-short-now-that-were-past-peak-oil-2011-5</span>//jchen
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Next Oil Shock</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The only thing that could … would be priced at $400. </span>
Transitioning before the crunch in 10 years is crucial
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Mark </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Williamson</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2010,</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> “May the power be with you”, POWERSPACE</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">So, do space power proponents think a point will arise when terrestrial power supplies become so inadequate that SSP is a necessity?</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">According to Nansen, … </span>sitting in the dark!
Solar technology leads to global energy independence—removes the need for foreign oil
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">NSS</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, National Space Society, October </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, “Space Solar Power Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">The United States and the …. solar system within economic reach.</span>
Continued oil dependence leads to global war
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Ron </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Bengston</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, compilation of articles from: U.S. News & World Report, The Saudi Connection, Friedman (Pulitzer Prize winning columnist), New York Times, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Detroit Economic Club, and Brookings Institution on U.S. Energy Security, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, http://www.americanenergyindependence.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">A powerful idea is spreading … defeat of Islamic terrorism.</span>
Scenario 2 is Warming
SPS is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Garretson</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">09</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">While no energy source … into rivers or coastal areas.</span>
ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">James M. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Snead</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">A key element of a … u7ydevelopment of SSP be started now.</span>
And, we’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to solar power key to check feedback cycles
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">David </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Biello</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">9/9</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure{jchen}</span>
<span class="CitesCharCharChar">Humanity has yet to reach</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span>perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050."
Runaway warming causes extinction
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Deibel ‘7</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
Finally, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">there is one … of life on this planet</span>.
And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Stefan </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Rahmstorf, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)</span>
It is time to turn to statement … which we need to deal.
Contention 3 is Airpower
Uncertain Space Policy is damaging the Aerospace Industry- Government action is key
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Maser 11</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Cambria; text-align: left;">[Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, [[http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]]]</span></span>
Access to space plays … <span class="CitesCharCharChar">the clock is ticking</span>.
Infrastructure advances of SPS ensures the US remains the aerospace leader.
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">NSSO</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, National Space Security Organization, joint office to support the Executive Agent for Space and the newly formed Defense Space Council, 10/10/</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity For Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … expression of this imperative.</span>
Aerospace Power in space is key to deterrence and primacy
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Snead </span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">07 – [</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mike Sead Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development , “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, [[http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx]], Caplan]</span>
Why is being a great … presidential administration should exercise.
Airpower deters nuclear conflicts in Asia
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Ashley J. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Tellis</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, sources of conflict in the 21st century, available via the rand website @ rand.org. chapter 3, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">1998</span>
The first key implication derived … <span class="CitesCharCharChar">Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>

Contention 4 is Solvency
Funding isn’t enough - government R&D is key to successful SPS
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">George </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman,</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2011</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> “The Next Decade: Where We’ve Been and Where We’re Going”,http://books.google.com/books?id=y5plTzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space+based+solar+power&hl=en&ei=99cDTq3bHIfEgAfTypSODg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Space%20based%20solar%20power&f=false, Date accessed June 23, 2011</span>
At the same time <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">we … </span>great dreams quietly expressed.
Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lior</span>, Noam, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April 2011 “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, </span>http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011
We have analyzed some economic … not crash to Earth, even old satellites
No perception of military threat –it’s an undesirable weapon
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">NSSO</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, Report to the National Security Space Office, October 10, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/nsso.htm//ZY</span>
<span class="CitesCharCharChar">When first confronted with</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;"> …</span> the research in an open environment.
=Mining Affirmative= 

===Contention One is the Status Quo=== 
===Status quo asteroid mining is small scale – only will bring back two ounces of asteroids for research=== 
NASA '11
(yup... NASA, 2/25/11, "NASA to Launch New Science Mission to Asteroid in 2016", http://www.nasa.gov/topics/solarsystem/features/osiris-rex.html// GH-aspomer)
NASA will launch a spacecraft … Earth impacts from celestial objects.
===Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its mining of asteroids beyond the earth’s mesosphere.=== 
===Contention two is hegemony=== 

China will cut off minerals in 2012 killing the global economy and US heg – all alternatives on Earth are 15 years away
CNETF '10
(website about China, 8/2/10, "China’s Stranglehold on Rare Earth Elements", http://www.cnetf.info/china-materials/chinas-stranglehold-on-rare-earth-elements// GH-aspomer)
Most people have no … <span style="font-size: 10pt;">of power for China to have.</span>
Rare earths are crucial to forward deployment – US war fighting depends on them
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu 10 (</span>Jeremy Hsu, Freelance Journalist, writer for PopSci and LiveScience, 4/14/10, “US Military Supply of Rare Earth Metals Not Secure, Live Science”)
<span class="CitesChar1">The</span> U.S. <span class="CitesChar1">D</span>epartment <span class="CitesChar1">o</span>f <span class="CitesChar1">D</span>efense … according to the GAO report.
Now is key- Chinas monopoly could shut down the military in months
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barry 10</span>(Jennifer Barry, Editor at Global Asset Strategist 10/22/2010 Financial Sense “China's Rare Earth Revenge” http://www.financialsense.com/contributors/jennifer-barry/china-rare-earth-revenge)
Although <span class="CitesChar1">the US</span> is not a … offensives<span class="CitesChar1"> in a matter of months</span>.
===Forward deployment checks great power wars=== 
Kagan 11
(Robert Kagan, senior fellow @ the Brookings Institute, Weekly Standard, January 24, http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533695.html?nopager=1// GH-aspomer)
The looming battle over the ... a great if recurring illusion.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Attempted asteroid mining causes China to relax exports – lays the foundation for private sector space development </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bova10</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">[</span>Ben Bova is the president of the National Space Society, an independent, educational, grassroots, non-profit organization dedicated to the creation of a spacefaring civilization. Founded as the National Space Institute (1974) and L5 Society (1975), which merged to form NSS in 1987 (see merger proclamation), NSS is widely acknowledged as the preeminent citizen's voice on space. NSS has over 12 thousand members (and more supporters) and over 50 chapters in the United States and around the world. The society also publishes Ad Astra magazine, an award-winning periodical chronicling the most important developments in space. 11-27-2010[[http://www.naplesnews.com/news/2010/nov/27/ben-bova-nov-28-2010-rare-earth-elements-are-news/]]<span class="DebateUnderline">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China produces roughly 97 percent … might help influence China, too.</span>
===Contention two is deflection=== 
===NASA has no technology to currently deflect an asteroid but nuclear missile are inevitable absent mining.=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wagenseil 07</span>(Paul Wagenseil, reporter for Fox News, 8/8/07, “NASA Researchers Ponder Nuclear Asteroid Deflector,” Fox News, [[http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,292464,00.html]])
<span class="CitesChar1">NASA scientists have proposed … </span>for the Ares V vehicle." 
Nuclear missile asteroid deflection fails and risks war with China – 4 reasons
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Neill 10</span>(Ian O’Neill, Space Producer for Discovery News, solar physicist, 6/28/10, “DON'T BE SUBTLE, NUKE THAT ASTEROID,” DiscoveryNews, [[http://news.discovery.com/space/dont-be-subtle-nuke-that-asteroid.html]])
<span class="CitesChar1">Personally, while I agree with … bomb wasn't big enough.</span>

Nuking an asteroid will have no effect– nonnuclear mechanisms are the only way to ensure deflection
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Neill 10</span>(Ian O’Neill, Space Producer for Discovery News, solar physicist, 4/21/10, “ANOTHER GOOD REASON NOT TO SHOOT NUKES AT ASTEROIDS,” DiscoveryNews, [[http://news.discovery.com/space/another-good-reason-not-to-shoot-nukes-at-asteroids.html]])
Unfortunately, in <span class="CitesChar1">research presented … </span>[[http://news.discovery.com/space/near-earth-asteroid-threat.html|of changing an asteroid trajectory]].
Dual-use mining equipment avoids all the problems with nuclear asteroid defense and effectively deflect asteroids
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SSI No Date</span>(Space Science Institute, established by [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerard_K._O'Neill|Professor Gerard K. O’Neill]], American physicist, space activist, and inventor of the mass driver, vision of opening the vast wealth of space to humanity, under the direction of Prof. Freeman Dyson, is to open the energy and material resources of space for human benefit within our lifetime, first commitment is to complete the missing technological links to make possible the productive use of the abundant resources in space, No Date, “Asteroid Deflection,” Space Science Institute, [[http://ssi.org/reading/papers/asteroid-deflection/]])
<span class="CitesChar1">SSI funded studies of</span> … their vast economic potential.
Asteroid impact is immediate extinction – outweighs on magnitude
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGUIRE 2002</span> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance … <span class="CitesChar1">considerably more of my business</span>.

Standard risk analysis doesn’t apply to an asteroid collision – evaluate magnitude over probability and timeframe
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">POSNER 2004</span> (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)
Even if our insouciant reaction … <span class="CitesChar1">otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>
===Contention three is solvency=== 

<span class="Author-Date">Mining asteroids is possible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ingerbretsen '01</span> [Mark Ingerbretsen, Contributing Editor for IEEE, "Mining Asteroids", pg. online @ ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=938712&tag=1// gh-bprp]
Mining multiple resources calls for … which can be budgeted for.

Government funded private enterprises empirically fail – funding is not dependable
Dinerman ‘10
Taylor Dinerman is a well-known and respected space writer regarding military and civilian space activities since 1983.
Space: The Final Frontier of Profit? A debate on the pros and cons of commercializing the cosmos; valuing asteroids at $20 trillion each. Taylor Dinerman makes a case against private space. 2-13-2010
[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703382904575059263418508030.html]]
The private sector simply … year, NASA withdrew financing.
=<span class="DebateUnderline">Negative </span>= 
==<span class="DebateUnderline">ESA CP </span>== 
Counterplan Text: The European Space Agency should <<Insert plan text here>>
Solves the case – European exploration advances scientific understanding and technological innovation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Advisory Group</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Advisory Group of the European Commission, Framework Programme 7-Space Theme, “Space Exploration, a new European flagship Programme”, October 10, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/newsroom/cf/_getdocument.cfm?doc_id=6195]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The SAG recommends that the EU become </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">will help provide solutions to many societal challenges.</span>
The ESA is comparatively better at space exploration than NASA or Russia – Only way to ensure solvency.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reiter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is the head of ESA's manned space program 07/08/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Future of space exploration is bright, German astronaut says,” http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,15217461,00.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">How is the European space program in comparison </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">have to approve our decision-making process</span>

== == 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spending Disad</span>== 



1NC1/3

**Growth****slow****but****stable** **– no****double-dip**

WRAL8/5<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2011,"Economicroller-coasternotnecessarilydouble-diprecession,"http://www.wral.com/business/story/9960473/,RG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Harvey=CampbellHarvey,aprofessorofinternationalbusinessatDukeUniversity'sFuquaSchoolofBusiness**</span>


**Harveysaid<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such</span>signsoflifeleadhim**

**AND** 

**isdefinitelymorerobusthiring<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,"Lanesaid.</span>**



Spendingkillstheeconomyinthisclimate

Murphy8/7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduateofVirginiaCommonwealthUniversitywithadegreeinpoliticalscience(Conor,2011,"Darkeconomictimesahead,"http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/political-pro-con/2011/aug/7/debt-federal-reserve-bernake-obama/,RG)</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whileitisobviousthatthis</span>**__market____uncertainty__

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">stilldon'tseethecliffattheend.</span>**


**1NC2/3**



IncreasedspendingcausesMoody’sdowngrade – thatkillsecon

CBSNews,8/5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “S&PDowngradesUSdebt”,</span>[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/08/05/national/main20088944.shtml]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,JPW</span>**

**__Moody's____in____its____announcement____noted__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">thatthelegislation</span>**

**__AND__** 

**__it____began____evaluating____the____country's____debt____in____1917.__**



Economicdeclinecauseswar**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">HarrisandBurrows 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhDinEuropeanHistory@CambridgeandCounseloroftheUSNationalIntelligenceCouncilANDMemberoftheNationalIntelligenceCouncil’sLongRangeAnalysisUnit(MathewJ.andJennifer, “RevisitingtheFuture:GeopoliticalEffectsoftheFinancialCrisis,” April,WashingtonQuarterly,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">,EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Ofcourse,thereportencompassesmorethan</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>__</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">crises</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.36Typesof</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">conflict</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">thattheworld</span>

1NC3/3

continued-notextdeleted



<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">continuestoexperience,suchas</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">over</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">resources</span>__</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>__</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">a</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">more</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">dog-eat-dog</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">world.</span>__</span>

==<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">T Substantial </span>__</span>== 

A. Substantial increase is 2.6 billion

Amir <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alexander</span>, writer for the Planetary Society, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>, [“President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from [[http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html]]]


On Wednesday, October 15, 2008,

AND

agency with spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.


B. They don’t increase space exploration or development by 2.6 billion dollars.


C. Limits are necessary for negative prep and clash and they unlimit because they justify tiny affirmatives that only increase NASA’s budget by a few thousand dollars.


D. Voter because debate is impossible without limits

==Space Debris DA== 
hingcansurviveinspacethentheplanneversolves…
1NC (1/3)

Space Debris managed now – but only slightly more will push us over the point of crisis.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wright</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Co</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">director</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">scientist</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">global</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">security</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">program</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Union</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Concerned</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scientists</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cambridge,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Massachusetts,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Debris,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Physics</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://physicstoday.org/journals/doc/PHTOAD-ft/vol_60/iss_10/35_1.shtml?bypassSSO=1,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">October</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thethreattosatellites</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thedebristhreatto</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">areveryexpensive,butarebeingstudied.</span>

Increasing space missions that utilize launches increase the chances of collisions and ensure a rapid space debris crisis.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">V.A.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leonovand</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A.V.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bagrov</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,InstituteofAstronomy,RussianAcademyofSciences,MoscowStudyofSpaceDebrisBurninginEarth’sAtmosphereviaTelevisionMeteorMonitoring,February15,20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.springerlink.com/content/210n5wt3t1388283/fulltext.pdf,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accordingtomodelcountstherecurrentlyexistsat</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">thenumberofwreckagesreachingtheupperatmosphere.</span>

1NC (2/3)

Space debris increases the risk of strikes on Russian early-warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,CenterforDefenseInformation,postdoctoralfellowintheAdvancedMetodsofCooperativeStudyProgram;workedintheofficeoftheUndersecretaryofDefenseforPolicy"WhatifSpacewereWeaponized?"July20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thisisthesecondoftwoscenariosthat</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,particularlytheeffectexpan-sionmayhave</span>
1NC (3/3)
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: center;"><<Lewis continues not text deleted>></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ontheBalticportofKaliningrad.AlthoughpartofRussia,KaliningradisseparatedfromtherestofRussiabyLithuaniaandPoland.Russiahasalreadycomplainedaboutitsdecreas-inglackofaccesstotheport,particularlytheuncooperativeattitudeoftheLithuaniangovern-ment.53NewsreportssuggestthatanedgyRussiamay</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">havemovedtacticalnuclearweaponsintotheenclave</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">thatallowsnationalnuclearforcestooperatesafely.</span>