[[toc]]
Aff - [[mailto:humzatariq2@gmail.com|humzatariq2@gmail.com]]
Neg - [[mailto:farazdebate@gmail.com|farazdebate@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Multistatic Synthetic Aperture Radar Version 2 (TFA State)== 
**Text: the Central Intelligence Agency should deploy microsatellites integrated with Multistatic Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention 1 is the Status Quo**

**Current Surveillance Operations On Iran Are Failing – Effective Surveillance Drone Missions Are Key**
**Shane, 2k11** (Scott Shane, David Sanger, NYT Staff Writers, “Drone Crash in Iran Reveals Secret U.S. Surveillance Effort” 12/07/11, …research.

**Iran Has Satellite Jamming Technology That Makes Current Satellites That Sustain Drone Missions Obsolete**
**Cohen, 2k11** **(**David, Ynet News Staff Writer, “Report: Iran 'blinded' CIA spy satellite” 12/17/11, Online [FH])
Is Iran in … the US craft to land in Iran.

**Contention 2 Nuclear Iran**
**All Signs Point to Military Applications of Iran’s Nuclear Program – Its Uranium Enrichment Levels Are On the Brink of Being Weapons-Grade**
<span class="Underline">**Olli, January 11th, 2k12** (Olli Heinonen, writer for Foreign Policy News, “The 20 Percent Solution” FP News, 1-11-2012, Online [HT])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What has raised the world's … quickly should it decide to do so </span>

**Iranian Claims to Cooperate on Nuclear Investigation are Hollow – They Have No Intention of Halting Their Nuclear Program – Making The Program’s Militarization Transparent is Key to Involve International Powers In Creating Effective Negotiation.**
**Dahl, January 28** (Fredrik, Reuters, “IAEA team heads to Iran to seek nuclear answers” 2012, Online [FH])
The U.N. International Atomic …fundamentals and principles," Ali Akbar Velayati said, according to the ISNA news agency.

**Effective Negotiations Delay Strikes in the Short Term and Halt Militarization, HEU Supply Levels and Sanctions Within a Year, But International Involvement Is Key – US Elections Prevent Meaningful Unilateral Diplomacy With Iran**
**Keller, January 22,** **2k12** (Bill Keller is an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times. Prior to this role he was the executive editor of The Times, “How About Not Bombing Iran?” Online [FH])
On the negotiating …shooting match.

**The Nuclear Taboo is On the Brink Now – Iran Acquiring a Nuclear Weapon Collapses It – Turns Your Disads**
**Etziona, 2k10** (Amitai, Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of California, Berkeley, Professor of Sociology at Columbia University, author of twenty-four books, “Can a Nuclear-Armed Iran be deterred” 6/29, Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Clearly </span>the more nations …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> little that Tehran may act rationally. </span>


**Contention 3 is Israel First Strike**

**Israel Will First Strike Iran Before Negotiations Can Become Effective**
**LaFranchi, February 10, 2k12** (Howard LaFranchi, CSMoniter Staff Writer, “Could talks over Iran nuclear crisis work? Turkish diplomat offers hints.” Online [FH])
Still, he said he is “… to verify suspension. 

**Israel Will Strike Before Summer to Avert Increased Iran Covertness**
**Associated Press, February 10, 2k12** (“Dwindling time, rising tension make Iran top fear” Online [FH])
Israel has less time …, it's too late."
**No Defense – The US Would Not Be Able to Stop Israel Strikes Because of Election Campaign Pressures.**
<span class="Underline">**Cohen, January 16th, 2k12** (Roger Cohen, </span>Written a Column for the Times-Owned International Herald Tribune, First for the News Pages and Then, Since 2007, for the Op-Ed Page. in 2009 He Was Named A <span class="title">Columnist</span>of the New York Times, “Don’t Do It, Bibi” NYT, 1-16-2012, Online [HT])
I would add a … would get from the Republican contender — probably Mitt Romney.

**Israel Strikes Would Accelerate Militarization and Regional Instability – Flips Your Offense**
**Gearan, February 3, 2k12** (Anne, AP National Security Writer, “West Making Case to Israel: Don't Attack Iran” Online [FH])
The U.S. and its … matter, the United States would be bound to defend Israel in a full war with Iran.

**Sanctions Won’t Deter Strikes – Only Internationally-Backed Diplomacy Solves – Israel Strikes Would Fail and Lead to Retaliation**
**Tiebel, January 31, 2k12** (Amy, Associated Press Military News Writer, “Israel Sees Narrowing Window for Attack on Iran” Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">JERUSALEM -- </span>Israeli officials … process that could leave aircraft vulnerable.

**Israel-Iran War Goes Nuclear and Causes Extinction Absent Effective Diplomacy**
**Ivanov, February 6, 2k12** (Georgi, graduate in political science and international affairs at Carleton University, writer for Policymic News “How to Deter Nuclear War: A Proposal for an Iran-Israel Nuclear Treaty” Online [FH])
Unconditional … left to document it.

**Iran Would Also Retaliate With Bioweapons**
**Allen, 2k7** (Steven J. Allen, PhD in Biodefense from George Mason University after studying under the former top scientist for the Soviet biological weapons program , Cumberland School of Law, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Jacksonville State University, Master’s Degree in Political Science, “Iran Chemical, Bio Weapons Threat Is Real” 11/07/07, Online [FH])
An attack on … of the world’s oil supply is shipped.

**Extinction** 
**Singer, 2k1** (Clifford E., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana – Champaign, “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control Disarmament, and International Security, 13:1, Swords and Ploughshares, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://acdis.illinois.edu/assets/docs/312/WillMankindSurvivetheMillennium.pdf]]</span>)
There are<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, however, … when and if this is achieved.</span>

**Contention 4 is Sanctions**
**Effective Negotiations That Include International Powers Will Result in Sanctions Being Lifted**
**Jensen, January 13, 2k12** (Keld, Managing Director of MarketWatch Centre for Negotiation, an associate professor at Copenhagen Business School, author on negotiation behavior, “ Negotiating Iran: Can U.S. End the Standoff?” Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">That’s the headline of …</span> of the U.S. and set the stage for finding added value.

**No Risk of Your Offense –** 
**First – Sanctions Fail and Accelerate Militarization – Effective Diplomacy Solves.** 
**Barzegar, February 9, 2k12** (Kayhan, Director of the Institute for Middle East Strategic Studies in Tehran and Chair of the Department of Political Science and International Relations at the Science and Research Branch of the Islamic Azad University in Tehran. He is also a Research Affiliate at the MIT Center for International Studies. Dr. Barzegar was a Research Fellow at Harvard University during 2006-2011 and a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the London School of Economics (LSE) in 2002–2003, “Sanctions Won't End Iran's Nuclear Program” Online [FH])
Iran's nuclear … about the nuclear talks.

**Second – Sanctions Help Iran Because it Forces Innovation in Non-Oil Industries – Also, Iran is Dumping the Dollar – They’ll Hold Out Longer than the US Under a Sanctioning Policy**
**Escobar, January 17**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">2k12 (Pepe, roving correspondent for Asia Times, political analyst for al-Jazeera, “Why Iran sanctions are doomed to fail” Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the meantime, </span>Washington's …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> if there's no tomorrow, lots of "quantitative easing," </span>and<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of course the </span>Eurozone shakingto its<span style="font-size: 7pt;">very </span>foundations.

**Iran Will Block Off the Strait If the US Escalates Sanctions – This Dooms Global Economic Recovery and Causes US-Iran Conflict – Hormuz is the Most Likely Scenario For War** 
**Klare, January 31st, 2k12** (Michael T. Klare, Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College, “Hormuz-Mania”, 1-31-2012, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ever since December 27th</span>, …global conflict in the months ahead.

**Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Bearden, 2k.** (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000)
History bears … decades.

**US-Iran War Escalates Causes Extinction – None of Your Defense Applies**
**Hirsch, 2k6** (Jorge Hirsch, a Professor of Physics at the University of California San Diego. He is One of the Originators of the Physicists' Petition on Nuclear Weapons Policies Started at the UCSD, 1/3/2006 “America's Nuclear Ticking Bomb” [[http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html]])
<span class="Underline">If only …in the scenario described above. </span>

**Contention 5 is Solvency**
**Stealth Technology That Uses Multistatic Apertures For Communication Prevents Jamming**
**Baker, 2k4** (Chris J. Baker, Dean of Engineering and Computer Science at Australia National University, “An Introduction to Multistatic Radar” 2004, Online [FH])
The overwhelming … their relative merits.

**Microsatellites Can Be Fitted With Multistatic Apertures That Prevent Surveillance Transmission Jamming to Drones**
**Baker, 2k**4 (Chris J. Baker, Dean of Engineering and Computer Science at Australia National University, “An Introduction to Multistatic Radar” 2004, Online [FH])
Finally, bistatic or … as a large interferometer (figure 8).

**No Disads –** 

**First, CIA Launched New Recon Satellites Last Year**
**Ottenheimer, 2k11** (David Ottenheimer,has more than seventeen years' experience managing global security operations and assessments, including a decade of leading incident response and digital forensics. He is an expert in compliance, a qualified PCI DSS and PA-DSS assessor with K3DES, and former Board Member for the Payment Card Industry Security Alliance and the Silicon Valley chapters<span class="apple-converted-space">,</span> “CIA Launches New Spy Satellite” 1-22-2011, Online [HT])
Thesuccessful … aboard a Falcon 9.

**Second, Congress Allocated Funding for CIA Programs – Also, Obama Plans to Increase CIA Budget**
**Hurriyet News, 2k11** (Hurriyet Daily News, “US spends $55 billion on CIA, other intel agencies” 10-31-2011, Online [HT])
The US Congress …, the report said.

**Third, Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
"As a former …most extreme active galaxies.
**Four, International Space Projects Are Inevitable**
**Ilya, 2k11** (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, writer for Bloomberg News, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])
MOSCOW – Russia …manned mission in 2020.

==Multistatic Synthetic Aperture Radar Version 1 (Colleyville)== 
**Text: the Central Intelligence Agency should deploy microsatellites integrated with Multistatic Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention (__) is the Status Quo__**

**Current Surveillance Satellites Are Inefficient – Only Satellites That Can Make Drone Missions Sustainable Will Solve**
**Shane, 2k11** (Scott Shane, David Sanger, NYT Staff Writers, “Drone Crash in Iran Reveals Secret U.S. Surveillance Effort” 12/07/11, Online [FH])
Surveillance of Iran is nothing new: American satellites have … that can give away nuclear research.

**Iran Has Satellite Jamming Technology That Makes Current Satellites That Sustain Drone Missions Obsolete**
**Cohen, 2k11** (David, Ynet News Staff Writer, “Report: Iran 'blinded' CIA spy satellite” 12/17/11, Online [FH])
Is Iran in possession of satellite jamming technology? A …supposedly directing the US craft to land in Iran.


**Military Satellites Currently Have No Measures to Prevent GPS Jamming From Iranian Technology**
**Wilson, 2k** (Tom Wilson, “Threats to United States Space Capabilities” Prepared for the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization [FH])
Electronic attack is defined …. communications satellites increases.(81)

**Contention (****) Nuclear Iran**
**All Signs Point to Military Applications of Iran’s Nuclear Program**
<span class="Underline">**Heinonen, January 11th, 2k12** (Olli Heinonen, writer for Foreign Policy News, “The 20 Percent Solution” FP News, 1-11-2012, Online [HT])</span>
What has raised … enriched uranium is alarming.


**Iranian Claims to Cooperate on Nuclear Investigation are Hollow – They Have No Intention of Halting Their Nuclear Program – Making The Program’s Militarization Transparent is Key to Successful Negotiations From International Powers**
**Dahl, January 28** (Fredrik, Reuters, “IAEA team heads to Iran to seek nuclear answers” 2012, Online [FH])
The U.N. International Atomic Energy … changed in term of fundamentals and principles," Ali Akbar Velayati said, according to the ISNA news agency.

**Negotiations Can Halt Iranian Militarization Within a Year, But International Involvement Is Key – The US Is Currently Unable to Engage In Meaningful Dialogue Because It Is An Election Year**
**Keller, January 22, 2k12** (Bill Keller is an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times. Prior to this role he was the executive editor of The Times, “How About Not Bombing Iran?” Online [FH])
On the negotiating track, I think … patrol boat will provoke a shooting match.

**Scenario 1: US First Strike**
**Unless The Stalemate Is Resolved This Year, a US First Strike On Iran Becomes Inevitable**
**Keller, January 22, 2k12** (Bill Keller is an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times. Prior to this role he was the executive editor of The Times, “How About Not Bombing Iran?” Online [FH])
Given the inflammatory …confrontation than in negotiation.

**No Risk of Your Offense – Strikes Would Fail and Only Make Iran’s Nuclear Programs More Covert**
<span class="Underline">**Fly and Schmitt, January 17th, 2k12** (Jamie M. Fly and Gary Schmitt, </span>writers for Foreign Affairs and Members of Council on Foreign Relations, “The Case for Regime Change in Iran” Foreign Affairs, 1-17-2012, Online [HT])
Matthew Kroenig thus deserves … would likely survive a limited bombing campaign along the lines advocated by Kroenig.


**A US Strike Would Accelerate the Weapons Program and Cause Nuclear Facilities To Be Shifted Further Underground – Flips Your Offense**
**Keller, January 22, 2k12** (Bill Keller is an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times. Prior to this role he was the executive editor of The Times, “Bomb-Bomb-Bomb, Bomb-Bomb-Iran?” Online [FH])
The point of tough sanctions, …we are trying to prevent.

**No Turns – US First Strike Causes All Out War With Iran**
**Kahl, January 17, 2k12** (Colin, Assistant Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “Not Time to Attack Iran” Foreign Affairs, Online [FH])
Kroenig's discussion of … proscribed limits exceedingly difficult.

**Iran War Escalates Causes Extinction – None of Your Defense Applies**
**Hirsch, 2k6** (Jorge Hirsch, a Professor of Physics at the University of California San Diego. He is One of the Originators of the Physicists' Petition on Nuclear Weapons Policies Started at the UCSD, 1/3/2006 “America's Nuclear Ticking Bomb” [[http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html]])
<span class="Underline">If only conventional … becomes unavoidable because no alternatives will have been planned for, as in the scenario described above. </span>

**Scenario 2: Strait of Hormuz**
**Even if You Win There Is No Offensive Retaliation to a First Strike, Iran’s Defensive Moves Would Shut Down the Strait of Hormuz Which Tanks the Global Economy**
**Kahl, January 17, 2k12** (Colin, Assistant Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “Not Time to Attack Iran” Foreign Affairs, Online [FH])
Even if Iran did …, especially since most Saudi crude passes through the strait.

**Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Bearden, 2k**. (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000)
History bears …the biosphere, at least for many decades.


**Strait of Hormuz Closure Creates a Power Vacuum and Causes Escalatory Global Conflict – We Win Probability**
**Klare, January 31st, 2k12 (**Michael T. Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, a TomDispatch regular, and the author, most recently, of Rising Powers, Shrinking Planet, “Hormuz-Mania” OBRAG, 1-31-2012, Online [HT])
“If they impose sanctions on Iran’s oil exports… global conflict in the months ahead.

**Scenario () is Regional War**

**Iran Would Also Retaliate Against Israel After a US First Strike – Causes Regional Instability**
**Kahl, January 17, 2k12** (Colin, Assistant Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “Not Time to Attack Iran” Foreign Affairs, Online [FH])
Keeping other states …region's anti-Western resistance.

**Escalates to Global Nuclear War**
**Nassar, 2k2** (Bahig, Arab Co-ordinating Centre of Non-Governmental Organizations, and Afro-Asian People’s Solidary Organization, 11/25, keynote paper for Cordoba Dialogue on Peace and Human Rights in Europe and the Middle East, [[@http://www.inesglobal.org/BahigNassar.htm]])
Wars in the Middle East … dangers instead of solving them.


**Israel Has Bioweapon Capabilities – Dual-Use Facilities Prove – Our Evidence Cites Multiple Agents Israel Has Access To**
**NTI, 2k11** (The Nuclear Threat Initative, Board of Directors/Publishers: <span style="font-size: 4pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/alexei-arbatov/|Alexei Arbatov, Head, Center for International Security at Institute of World Economy and International Relations, Russian Academy of Sciences]] Alexei Arbatov, head of the Center for International Security of the Institute of World Economy and International Relations (IMEMO) of the Russian Academy of Sciences, is one of Russia's most important intellectual leaders in the fields of international relations and international security. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/charles-curtis/|Charles B. Curtis, President Emeritus and Board Member]] Charles B. Curtis served for nine years as president and CEO of NTI. Earlier, he served as executive vice president and COO of the United Nations Foundation (UNF) and was a partner in Hogan & Hartson, a Washington-based law firm. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/pete-domenici/|Pete V. Domenici, Senior Fellow, Bipartisan Policy Center]] Senator Domenici has been a strong proponent for creating and sustaining programs focused on reducing the threats from weapons of mass destruction. While serving in the U.S. Senate, he consistently promoted legislation to bolster the U.S. efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/susan-eisenhower/|Susan Eisenhower, President, Eisenhower Group, Inc.]] Ms. Eisenhower is President of the Eisenhower Group, Inc. and is best known for her work on U.S.-Russian relations and international security issues. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/rolf-ekeus/|Rolf Ekéus, Chairman Emeritus of the Board, Stockholm International Peace Research Institute]] Rolf Ekéus has spent the last two decades working on international nonproliferation issues. He has filled a number of diplomatic posts, including Swedish Ambassador to the United States and Executive Chairman of the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq from 1991-1997. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/eugene-habiger/|Eugene E. Habiger, USAF (Ret.), Former Commander in Chief, U.S. Strategic Command]] General Habiger has more that 35 years of experience in national security and nuclear operations. In his role as commander in chief of the U.S. Strategic Command, General Habiger was responsible for all U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy strategic nuclear forces. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/el-hassan-bin-talal/|HRH Prince El Hassan bin Talal of Jordan]] His Royal Highness has initiated, founded and is actively involved in a number of Jordanian and international institutes and committees. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/igor-ivanov/|Igor S. Ivanov, Former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Russia]] Igor S. Ivanov is a Professor at Moscow State Institute for International Relations. Previously, he served as Minister of Foreign Affairs, from 1998 to 2004, and Secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation, from 2004 to 2007. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/richard-lugar/|Richard G. Lugar, Chairman, Senate Foreign Relations Committee]] Senator Lugar (R-Indiana) is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and a well-known leader in international security issues. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/jessica-tuchman-mathews/|Jessica T. Mathews, President, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace]] As President of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Dr. Mathews oversees an international research organization with offices in Washington and Moscow. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/sam-nunn/|Sam Nunn, Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer]] Former US Senator Nunn represented Georgia for 24 years (1972-1996), where he served as Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and on the Intelligence and Small Business Committees. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/ronald-olson/|Ronald L. Olson, Partner, Los Angeles office of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP]] Ronald L. Olson is a partner in the Los Angeles office of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP. Mr. Olson has practiced law with the firm since 1968. Mr. Olson also is a director of Berkshire Hathaway, Edison International, City National Corporation, The Washington Post Company, and Western Asset Trusts. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/hisashi-owada/|Hisashi Owada, Judge, International Court of Justice]] Judge Hisashi Owada was appointed to the International Court of Justice in The Hague in early 2003. Before being appointed to this post, he served as President of the Japan Institute of International Affairs. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/william-perry/|William Perry, Former U.S. Secretary of Defense]] Dr. Perry is the Michael and Barbara Berberian Professor at Stanford University, with a joint appointment in the School of Engineering and the Institute for International Studies. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/joan-rohlfing/|Joan Rohlfing, President and Chief Operating Officer]] A founding NTI staff member, Joan Rohlfing became president of NTI in January 2010, after nine years as NTI's senior vice president for programs and operations. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/nafis-sadik/|Nafis Sadik, Special Advisor to the United Nations Secretary-General]] Dr. Nafis Sadik is special advisor to the UN Secretary-General and special envoy for HIV/AIDS in Asia and Pacific. She has consistently called attention to the importance of addressing gender, population and development issues and, particularly, the inclusion of women in decision-making and carrying out of development policy. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/amartya-sen/|Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, Harvard University]] Professor Sen, recipient of the Nobel Prize in Economics, is a world-renowned economist, scholar, philosopher and author. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/ted-turner/|Ted Turner, Co-Chairman]] A philanthropist and supporter of a number of humanitarian causes, Mr. Turner is founder of CNN, the world's first live, in-depth, around-the-clock news television network. He directs most of his philanthropic activities through the Turner Foundation, the United Nations Foundation and NTI. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/shirley-williams/|Shirley Williams, Member, House of Lords, United Kingdom]] Baroness Williams is a Member of the House of Lords and is heavily involved in the debate over how to reform the upper house. Earlier in her career, she was a Member of Parliament in the House of Commons and served as a Labour Cabinet Minister of Education and Science. [[http://www.nti.org/about/leadership-staff/fujia-yang/|Fujia Yang, Academician, Chinese Academy of Sciences]] Dr. Yang is an internationally renowned nuclear physicist who currently serves as the sixth Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Israel” [Country Profile], November 2011, Online [HT])</span>
Capabilities Israel does …business-friendly environment makes it Scientific American's fifth best country for biotechnology innovation.[18]

**Israel Would Use a Biological Bomb – They Have Tried in the Past To Develop Ethnic Bioweapons to Eradicate Entire Populations**
**Wired, 98** (Wired News, “Israel’s Ethnic Weapon” 11-16-1998, Online [HT])
Israel is reportedly … "particularly the Iraqi people."

**Biological Attack Spreads Rapidly – Causes Extinction**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Singer, 2k1</span>** <span style="color: #222222;">**(**Clifford E., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana – Champaign, “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control Disarmament, and International Security, 13:1, Swords and Ploughshares,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://acdis.illinois.edu/assets/docs/312/WillMankindSurvivetheMillennium.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">)</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">There are, however, … question when and if this is achieved.</span>


**Contention (****) is Solvency**

**Stealth Technology That Uses Multistatic Apertures For Communication Prevents Jamming**
**Baker, 2k4** (Chris J. Baker, Dean of Engineering and Computer Science at Australia National University, “An Introduction to Multistatic Radar” 2004, Online [FH])
The overwhelming … highlighting their relative merits.

**Microsatellites Can Be Fitted With Multistatic Apertures That Prevent Surveillance Transmission Jamming to Drones**
**Baker, 2k4** (Chris J. Baker, Dean of Engineering and Computer Science at Australia National University, “An Introduction to Multistatic Radar” 2004, Online [FH])
Finally, bistatic or … network is acting as a large interferometer (figure 8).

**No Disads – CIA Launched New Recon Satellites Last Year**
**Ottenheimer, 2k11** (David Ottenheimer,has more than seventeen years' experience managing global security operations and assessments, including a decade of leading incident response and digital forensics. He is an expert in compliance, a qualified PCI DSS and PA-DSS assessor with K3DES, and former Board Member for the Payment Card Industry Security Alliance and the Silicon Valley chapters<span class="apple-converted-space">,</span> “CIA Launches New Spy Satellite” 1-22-2011, Online [HT])
Thesuccessful launch of a … aboard a Falcon 9.

**Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
"As a former …study the most extreme active galaxies.



==Automatic Identification System Version 3 (Texas)== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: the United States Coast Guard should deploy satellites integrated with Automatic Identification System sensors and Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**

<span class="Underline">**Contention 1: Maritime Domain Awareness**</span>
**MDA Is On the Decline Due to The Inability to Track Vessels – Holes in Security Get Exploited By Criminals – A Space Based Identification System Is the Only Way to Reinvigorate MDA**
**Allan, 2k11** (John W. Allan, VP Global Sales & Marketing @ Exact Earth, “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security” 3/23, Online [FH])
Few Security Commentators Would Dispute … **__Forward In Maritime Surveillance Capability.__**

**The Technologies Integrated By the Plan Exist Now But Fail Because They Aren’t Space Based – Integration Allows For Almost Perfect Efficiency In Global Vessel Tracking Capabilities**
**Singh, 2k10** (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in
Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])
**__AIS signals can easily be … can definitely provide near-real MST__**


**Integration Specifically Allows Tracking of Criminal Vessels**
**Vahcon, 2k6** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Paris W., “Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperature Radar Imagery”, Defense R&D Canada, Third Workshop on Coastal and Marine Applications of SAR, October 2006, http://www.oceansar2006.com/papers/82_Vachon_Oceansar2006.pdf{MB})</span>
**__Automatic Identification System__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (AIS), a VHF … </span>**__in operational ship detection systems__****.**

**Vessel Tracking Capabilities Are Key to MDA – They Are a Prerequisite to All Other Maritime Operations – The Coast Guard Has Jurisdiction**
**Lessing, 2k6** ( P. A. Lessing, National Data Buoy Center, Cdr. B. J. Tetreault, United States Coast Guard, L. J. Bernard, University of Southern Mississippi, J. N. Chaffin, Science Applications International Corporation, “Use of the Automatic Identification System (AIS) on Autonomous Weather Buoys for Maritime Domain Awareness Applications” 9/1, Online [FH])
Maritime Domain Awareness, or MDA, is: “… , law enforcement and other missions.

**MDA Checks All Conflict Escalation By Preventing Weapons Transportation – This Turns Your Disads**
**Goward, 2k7** (Captain Dana A. Goward, executive secretary for the National MDA Implementation Team and the Coast Guard’s Director of MDA Program Integration, Commandant CG-52, “Maritime Domain Awareness: The Key to Security” US Naval Institute, Online [FH])
An important part of this … **__uninterrupted free flow of commerce.__**

**Scenario 1: Piracy**
**Somalian Piracy Is On the Rise and Is Spreading Throughout the Gulf of Aden – Inability to Monitor The Maritime Domain Causes Status Quo Containment Policies to Fail.**
**Gettleman, 2k11** (Jeffrey Gettleman, writer for NY Times, “Suddenly, a Rise in Piracy’s Price” NY Times, 2-26-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The question now is: </span>**__Are we … more or perhaps escalated atrocities. ‘’__**

**Maritime Domain Awareness Is Critical to Counter-Piracy Operations – The Specific Technology Integrated By the Plan Is Key**
**Salerno, 2k9** (RADM Brian M. Salerno, assistant commandant for marine safety security and stewardship, “On The: Piracy Against U.S. Flagged Vessels: Lessons Learned” Department of Homeland Security, 5-20-2009, Online [HT])
<span class="Underline">**Counter-piracy forces must be …** homeland and national security partners. </span>


**Gulf of Aden Piracy Is the Biggest Cause Of Instability In Yemen – It Also Allows For AQAP To Effectively Regroup And Launch Attacks.**
**Atarodi, 2k10** (Alexanderia, Defense Analyst, “Yemen in Crisis – Consequences for the Horn of Africa” Swedish Defense Research Agency, March 2010, Online, [SS])
**__Pirate attacks in the waters …__** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">and the consequences of such a failure </span>

**If AQAP Can Successfully Regroup In Yemen, Instability Goes Regional**
**Reger, 2k9** (Jeff Reger, Researcher at Kettering Foundation and Security Analyst at the Center for American Progress, “Yemen Threatens Regional Stability” Center for American Progress Organization Website, 7-13-2009, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Indeed, </span>**__Yemen is both a source … a regional problem with a regional solution.__**

**Regional Instability Escalates to Global Nuclear War**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nassar, 2k2</span> (Bahig, Arab Co-ordinating Centre of Non-Governmental Organizations, and Afro-Asian People’s Solidary Organization, 11/25, keynote paper for Cordoba Dialogue on Peace and Human Rights in Europe and the Middle East, http://www.inesglobal.org/BahigNassar.htm)
<span class="CharChar2">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wars in the Middle East … </span>__**</span>**__dangers instead of solving them.__**

**AQAP Plans To Acquire and Use CBWs in Attacks**
**Baldor, 2k11** (Lolita Baldor, Associated Press, “U.S. Plans to Train Yemeni Counter-Terrorism Unit” Monday, February 14, 2011,<span style="color: #4d4d4d;"><span style="color: #4791bc; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/us-plans-train-yemeni-counter-terrorism]]</span>)</span>
Senior U.S. intelligence officials told Congress … , reportedly is hiding in Yemen.

**Causes Extinction and Outweighs Nuclear War**
**Ochs, 2k2** former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group
[Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
__Of all the weapons of … ? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.__

**Now is Key Timeframe to Act – Yemen is at the Breaking Point**
**Reuters, 2k11** (Reuters News, “U.S. concerned about Yemen instability, Qaeda fight” Reuters Moscow, 3-22-2011, Online [HT])
(Reuters) - Defense Secretary Robert **__…__** **__his administration to breaking point.__**

**Scenario 2: Small Boat Terrorism**
**Small Boat Terrorism is Rising Now – Increasing MDA through the Plan’s Technology Integration Is Key to Stop It – Only a Space-Based Approach Solves.**
**Singh, 2k10** (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in
Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])
In today’s information age, where … **__terror attacks in these waters.__**


**Small Boat Terror Has a High Success Rate and Is Attracting Major Terror Cells – We Outweigh on Probability**
**CBS, 2k9** (News Service, “U.S. Wary Of Small Boat Terrorism” 2/11, Online [FH])
As boating season approaches, the … **__and other potential terrorist targets.__**

**Even One Small Boat Terrorist Attack Opens the Floodgates to Multiple Attacks In The Future Hill, 2k9** (Brian Patrick Hill, Naval School Postgraduate, “MARITIME TERRORISM AND THE SMALL BOAT THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES: A PROPOSED RESPONSE” 3/2009, Online [FH])
Although it would probably not … **__after the first successful attack.__**

**Small Boat Terrorism Would Involve WMD Container Attacks On US Ports**
**Hill, 2k9** (Brian Patrick Hill, Naval School Postgraduate, “MARITIME TERRORISM AND THE SMALL BOAT THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES: A PROPOSED RESPONSE” 3/2009, Online [FH])
Secretary Chertoff previously noted that **__… some of the surrounding territory.” 164__**

**A Port Attack Collapses Global Economy – Our Internal Link Outweighs – 3 Week Timeframe**
**Flynn 2k3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A year later I joined with … </span>**__that make up international trade__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Even Unsuccessful Small Boat Terror Attacks Collapse the Economy**
**Medalia, 2k5** (Jonathan Medalia, Specialist in National Defense Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, “Terrorist Nuclear Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” CRS Report for Congress, 1/24, Online [FH])
The antiterrorism/force protection lessons … throughout the global financial marketplace.

**Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Bearden, 2k.** (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000)
**__History bears out that desperate … , at least for many decades__****.**

<span class="Underline">**No Defense – Container Based Terrorism Is Feasible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Konkel, 2k5** (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [RG])</span>
<span class="Underline">**A fundamental factor contributing to … doubt pose a much greater threat.** </span>

**Contention 2: No Disads**
**First, The Coast Guard Contracted A Bid for Vessel Tracking Satellites At the End of 2010 But they All Failed in Orbit**
<span class="Underline">**Selding, 2k11** (Peter Selding, Staff Writer for Defense News, “Tracking Ships From Space” 4/10, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">With International Maritime Organization regulations … **-equipped satellites failed in orbit.** </span>

**Second, Coast Guard Has 3 Billion Dollars Allocated**
**DHS, 2k9** (Department of Homeland Security, “Secretary Napolitano Announces ARRA Funding of Coast Guard Improvement Projects” 4-20-2009, Online [HT])
U.S. Department of Homeland Security … ) in **__support of DHS programs.__**

**Third, Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
"As a former astronaut and … **__the most extreme active galaxies.__**

**Four, International Space Projects Are Inevitable**
**Ilya, 2k11** (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, writer for Bloomberg News, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">– </span>**__Russia may accelerate planned … technology for a manned mission in 2020.__**

==Automatic Identification System Version 2 (Greenhill)== 
**Text: the United States Coast Guard should deploy satellites integrated with Automatic Identification System sensors and Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**


**Contention 1: Cocaine Trade**

**Colombian Traffickers Are Switching to Submarines to Ship Cocaine – Statistical Decreases In Exports Reflect The Evasiveness of New Smuggling Methods**
<span class="Underline">**Otis, 2k11** (John Otis, BBC Reporter Specializing In Colombian Affairs, “Drug submarines: Colombia's underwater cocaine traffic” 4/26, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">According to Jay Bergman, who heads the US Drug Enforcement...I wish you all the luck in the world. But I'm not interested.'" </span></span>

**Submarines Are the Method of Choice for Colombian Traffickers – They Carry Seventy Percent of Cocaine Exports and Evade Detection By Status Quo Technology**
**Otis, 2k10** (John Otis, BBC Colombia News Correspondent, “Drug traffickers move underwater” Global Post, Published 4-15-2009 and Edited 5-30-2010, Online [HT])
Today, smugglers are moving … yards of the vessels to spot them.

**Declines In Coca Production Miss the Point – Farmers Simply Regrow Higher Yielding Crops – Status Quo Counternarcotics Efforts Backfire and Make Cartels Stronger – Colombia Is the Linchpin of Global Cocaine Exports**
**Chalk, 2k11** (Peter Chalk, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact, and Response” RAND, 2011, Online [FH])
That said, Washington’s overall counternarcotics …, and a Colombia–Venezuela–Atlantic–West Africa–Europe route

**Scenario 1: Rainforests**

**Cocaine Cultivation Puts the Colombian Rainforests on the Brink of Collapse**
**ScienceDaily, 2k11** (Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11, Online [FH])
Cultivating coca bushes… the report suggests.

**Colombian Rainforests Are Critical Global Biodiversity Hotspots – Cocaine Production Is the Biggest Threat**
**Doward, 2k9** (Janie Doward, Staff Writer for the Observer, Guardian UK, “Colombia's endangered species at the mercy of jungle drug cartels” 10/25/09, Online [FH])
Colombia, one of the …and resist biodegradation.

**Specifically, Cocaine Production and Status Quo Counternarcotics Efforts Decimate the Amazon Rainforest**
**Mongabay, 2k8** (Environmental News Source, “Cocaine use is destroying the Amazon” 5/26/08, Online [FH])
A new campaign has linked cocaine …biodiversity hotspot in northwest Colombia.

**Destruction of the Amazon Causes Extinction**
**Takacs 96**, Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay [David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise, pg.ttp://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm]
As we might expect, ecologists…thermonuclear war, which could extinguish civilization.""

**The Species Threatened In Those Rainforests Are Critical to Global Biodiversity**
**UPI, 2k11** (United Press International, News Source, “Cocaine tied to Colombian deforestation” 1/27/11, Online [FH])
Cultivating coca bushes,…global biodiversity, the researchers say.

**This Takes Out All Defense, Forest Ecosystems Can Only Maintain Resiliency if Their Species Are Biodiverse**
**Wilson, 2k2**. (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)
Ecosystems are kept stable … regrowth of forest vegetation still more.

**Biodiversity Loss Causes Extinction.**
**Diner ’94** [David N., Major and Judge Advocate in the General’s Corps, Winter, Military Law Review, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?” 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Lexis]
By causing widespread extinctions…may be edging closer to the abyss.

**Extinction Rate Outweighs Resiliency**
**Rosenweig 2k1.** (Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])
Accidents that eradicate …not be able to keep up with thelosses.

**Scenario 2: Ports**

**Physical Deployment of the Coast Guard to Monitor Trafficking Fails and Trade-Off With Port Security**
**Krause, 2k6** [Mike, (directs the Justice Policy Initiative at the Independence Institute And served in the United States Coast Guard) “Drug War Trumps Port Security,” Independence Institute, Online]
The top objective…itself is failing.

**<span style="color: black;">Overstretch Creates Zero Sum Trade-Offs Between Program Funding </span>**
**MOAA, 2k5**. (Military Officer Association of America, “On Guard” March. Online. [KC])
Although the Coast Guard …have a decreased capability.”

**Security Prevents Weapon Smuggling and Detonation in Ports**
**Schumer ’01** [Senator Charles; D-NY; “Schumer: Inadequate Security Poses Severe Terrorist Threat To Ny, Us Ports”; Press Release; 09 Dec 2001; retrieved 18 Jul 2003; http://schumer.senate.gov/SchumerWebsite/pressroom/press_releases/PR00750.html]
"You can't just … that simple."

<span class="Underline">**Ports Are the Most Probable Attack Scenario – Hundreds of Thousands Die In Attack – More Probable Than Nuclear War**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Konkel, 2k5** (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">In the immediate aftermath … tip of a missile.” </span>

**<span style="color: black;">A Port Attack Collapses the Global Economy Within Three Weeks</span>**
**Flynn 2k3** Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730
A year later I joined… make up international trade.

<span class="Underline">**Global Nuclear War**</span>
**Bearden, 2K** (T.E., Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “Unnecessary Energy Crisis,” 6/ 24, http://www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc [KC])
History bears out that desperate nations…biosphere, at least for many decades

<span class="Underline">**Constructing or Obtaining Weapons for Port Attack is Easy – Status Quo Detection Has a High Failure Rate**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Konkel, 2k5** (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">A fundamental factor…pose a much greater threat. </span>

**Scenario 3: Russian Mafia**

**Cocaine is Traded for Weapons Sold To Non-State Actors By the Russian Mafia**
**Moran, 2k** (Sue Lackey, Michael Moran, MSNBC Analysts, Field Experts, “Russian mob trading arms for cocaine with Colombia rebels” 4/9/09, Online [FH])
WASHINGTON, April 9, 2000 — Russian crime… and turned them instead into conduits for their own organized crime activities, including arms and drug trafficking.

**This Includes Massive Stockpiles of Nuclear Weapons and Active Uranium**
**Majalla et al, 2k1** (Al-Majalla, Al-Watan al-Arabi and Al-Wasat, Middle Eastern news sources, “Bin Laden's Nuclear Weapons” 12/27/01, Online [FH])
Al-Watan al-Arabi goes on to say that … during the 80’s and 90’s.

**South America Is the Biggest Internal Link to Non-State Actor Nuclear Proliferation**
**MacDonald, 2k8** (Brad MacDonald, staff writer for the Trumpet, “Is Chávez Helping Terrorists Go Nuclear?” 5/2008, Online [FH])
That seizure marked the … images of what the consequences for America could be!

**Groups That Receive Weapons from the Russian Mafia Are the ONLY Nuclear Threats – Makes Nuclear Use Inevitable and Causes Extinction**
**Power, 97** (Jonathan Power, staff writer for the Baltimore Sun, “Threat of the Russian nuclear mafia” 10/14/97, Online [FH])
The real issue in …humanity since Hiroshima and Nagasaki

**Only Non-State Actors Will Use Nuclear Weapons – Nation-States Have a Nuclear Taboo**
**Perkovich, 2k9** (George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH])
The underlying difficulty, … aggression against Taiwan first.

**Non-State Actor Nuclear Use Shatters the Taboo Through Retaliation**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gusterson, 2k7(Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])</span>
We already know the narrative…with nuclear weapons?

**Retaliation Kills Hundreds of Millions Regardless of the Success of the Initial Attack**
**Easterbrook 2k1** (Greg, The new republic, November 1, www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0111/01/gal.00.html accessed 7/10/03)
GREENFIELD: Now, finally, … a dozen Muslim countries.

**The Taboo Prevents All Conflict Escalation - One Violation Spills Over – Turns Your Nuclear War Scenarios**
**Gizewski, 96** [**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Peter, *Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400]</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Absolute and all-encompassing,…of more destruction to come.</span>
**Independently, Destruction of the Taboo Causes Nuclear Extinction**
**Quester, 2k4** (George Quester, Prof of Govt and Politics @ U of Maryland. Doctorate in PoliSci from Harvard, “If the nuclear taboo gets broken” Naval War College Review, Spring 2005, Vol 58, No 2, Online [FH])
The very worst breaking…and social aftermath if such weapons were to be used again.

**Contention 2: Solvency**

**Automatic Identification System Tech Exists, But It Fails Because It Isn’t Space Based – 18 AIS Satellites Integrated with SAR Imaging Allows For 99 Percent Efficiency In Real Time Monitoring of Every Vessel on the Planet.**
**Singh, 2k10** (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in
Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])
AIS signals can easily …can definitely provide near-real MST

**Integration Allows Effective Detection of Criminal Vessels**
**Vahcon, 2k6** (Paris W., “Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperature Radar Imagery”, Defense R&D Canada, Third Workshop on Coastal and Marine Applications of SAR, October 2006,<span class="Underline"> http://www.oceansar2006.com/papers/82_Vachon_Oceansar2006.pdf{MB}</span>)
Automatic Identification System … in operational ship detection systems.

**Stopping the Narco-Subs Will Collapse the Market**
<span class="Underline">**Ross, 2k7** (Brian Ross, ABC News Reporter, “Run Silent, Run Drugs: The Cocaine Sub Fleet” 12/20, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">Drug traffickers are … this product, like every other product, is susceptible to a declining market," Walters says</span>

**Coast Guard Has Jurisdiction**
**Frittelli, 2k5** (John F. Frittelli, Specialist in Transportation, Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress” CRS Report for Congress, 5-27-2005, Online [HT])
Coast Guard. The Coast Guard is … vessels and harbors from subversive acts.

**Your Disads Are Non-Unique – The Coast Guard Contracted A Bid for AIS Satellites At the End of 2010 But they All Failed in Orbit**
<span class="Underline">**Selding, 2k11** (Peter Selding, Staff Writer for Defense News, “Tracking Ships From Space” 4/10, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">With International Maritime …failed in orbit.</span>

**Second – Coast Guard Has 3 Billion Dollars Allocated**
**DHS, 2k9** (Department of Homeland Security, “Secretary Napolitano Announces ARRA Funding of Coast Guard Improvement Projects” 4-20-2009, Online [HT])
U.S. Department of Homeland Security … ) in **support of DHS programs.**


**Third,** **Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
"As a former astronaut and … **the most extreme active galaxies.**


**Four, International Space Projects Inevitable – Russia and China Prove**
**Arkhipov and Pronina, 2k11** (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, writer for Bloomberg News, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 11px;">MOSCOW– </span>**Russia may accelerate planned … technology for a manned mission in 2020.**

==Automatic Identification System Version 1 (Grapevine)== 
**Text: the United States Coast Guard should deploy a constellation of satellites integrated with Automatic Identification System Sensors and Synthetic Aperture Radar Technology beyond Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention : The Arctic**

**International Competition Over Arctic Resources Is Inevitable – Now is Key Timeframe to Lock In US Dominance – Failure Guarantees Conflict Due to Heightened Tensions**
**Macalister, July 6**. (Terry Macalister, energy editor of the Guardian UK, “US and Russia stir up political tensions over Arctic” 2011, Online [FH])
The message was clear: **the … they are preparing for conflict."**


**AIS Satellite Integration Key to Lock In Dominance Through Icebreaker Missions – Status Quo Plans AIS Integration, But It Will Fail Because It Isn’t High Enough in the Atmosphere – Only Coast Guard Has Jurisdiction**
**NRC, 2k7** (Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council, This Includes: Polar Research Board (PRB), Marine Board (MB), Earth and Life Studies (DELS), Transportation Research Board (TRB), “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” The National Academic Press, pg. 48-50, Online [FH])
**As ship traffic increases in U.S. … vessels and centers on shore.**


**Icebreaker Missions Are Inevitable – Russia Would Do Them Absent US Leadership**
**Cohen and Altman, August 16.** (Ariel Cohen, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, 8-16-2011, Online [HT])
**The Arctic is becoming the “… and the Arctic Ocean bed.**

<span class="Underline">**Sustainable US Icebreaker Motions Is Key to Antarctic Scientific Research and Promotion of the Antarctic Treaty System**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NRC, 2k6** (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Reccomendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” September, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline">**The United States has**</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> enduring … </span>**as a leader in polar science.**



<span class="Underline">**Adherence to the ATS is Key to Antarctic Sciences**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Dastidar and Persson, 2k5** (Prabir G. Dastidar, Department of Ocean Development in New Delhi, and Olle Persson, Umea University Department of Sociology, “Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-à-vis Antarctic Treaty System” IAS, Current Science Volume 89 Number 9, 11-10-2005, Online [HT])</span>
<span class="Underline">**ANTARCTICA is a continent of science … science is occupying a central place**</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Arctic Science is Key to Ecosystem Preservation – No Turns – Sciences Make Drilling Post Plan Environmentally Responsible</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Joyner, 98</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Christopher C. Joyner, Professor and MA in International Relations Government @ Georgetown University, “Governing the frozen commons: the Antarctic regime and environmental protection” Published By University of South Carolina Press, 1998, Online @ Google Books [HT])</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A fourth </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">policy objective furthered … </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">that </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">responsible stewardship.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> See figure 7.1.</span>


**Unregulated Drilling Threatens Arctic Biodiversity and Ecosystems**
**Floren, 2k1** (David W. Floren, Associate Attorney @ Robert B. Jacobs Attorney Firm, Former J.D. candidate, Class of 2002, University of Oregon School of Law; B.A., Political Science, 1992, University of California, San Diego, “Antarctic Mining Regimes: An Appreciation of the Attainable” 2001 University of Oregon Journal of Environmental Law and Litigation, Fall 2001, 16 J. Envtl. L. & Litig. 467, Online @ L/N Law, Online [HT])
**Harm to the quality of … alcohol and drug abuse."**<span class="blue">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1313460896789&returnToKey=20_T12536095386&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.410991.5442629779#n88|**n88**]]</span>

**Multiple Niche Species Get Threatened**
**Floren, 2k1** (David W. Floren, Associate Attorney @ Robert B. Jacobs Attorney Firm, Former J.D. candidate, Class of 2002, University of Oregon School of Law; B.A., Political Science, 1992, University of California, San Diego, “Antarctic Mining Regimes: An Appreciation of the Attainable” 2001 University of Oregon Journal of Environmental Law and Litigation, Fall 2001, 16 J. Envtl. L. & Litig. 467, Online @ L/N Law, Online [HT])
**The waters inside the Antarctic … extinction are not fully known.**

**Migrating Species Magnifies the Internal Link**
**UNEP, 2k10** (United Natins Environment Program, Johnsen, K. Alfthan, B. Hislop, L. Skaalvik, J. F. (Editors), “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity: Limitations and Strengths of Environental Agreements” UNEP Grid Arendal, 2010, Online [HT])
The **Arctic contribution to global … short but productive Arctic summers2.**

**Biodiversity Loss Risks Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Montague, 95.</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Peter </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montague</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “The Four Horsemen—Part 2: Loss of Biodiversity,” Rachel’s Enviornment & Health News, December 14, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1995</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, http://www.rachel.org/bulletin/bulletin.cfm?Issue_ID=651. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinctions are dangerous for … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">wondrous works of the creator.</span>


**Biodiversity is Pre-Requisite to Resiliency.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wilson, 2k2</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. (</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span>
Ecosystems are kept stable in … <span style="font-size: 9pt;">of forest vegetation still more.</span>

**Extinction Rate Outweighs Any of their Resiliency Arguments**
**Rosenweig 2k1.** (Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001**,** PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Accidents that eradicate successful species … </span>keep up with thelosses.


**Contention** **: Maritime Domain Awareness**

**MDA Is On the Decline Due to The Inability to Track Vessels – Holes in Security Get Exploited By Criminals – Space Based AIS is the Only Way to Reinvigorate it**
**Allan, 2k11** (John W. Allan, VP Global Sales & Marketing @ Exact Earth, “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security” 3/23, Online [FH])
Few security commentators would dispute … **forward in maritime surveillance capability.**


**Vessel Tracking Capabilities Are Key – They Are a Prerequisite to All Other Maritime Operations**
**Lessing, 2k6** ( P. A. Lessing, National Data Buoy Center, Cdr. B. J. Tetreault, United States Coast Guard, L. J. Bernard, University of Southern Mississippi, J. N. Chaffin, Science Applications International Corporation, “Use of the Automatic Identification System (AIS) on Autonomous Weather Buoys for Maritime Domain Awareness Applications” 9/1, Online [FH])
Maritime Domain Awareness, or MDA, is: “… , law enforcement and other missions.

**MDA Key to Maritime Security and Prevention of Accidents at Sea**
**Santos and Lunday, 2k9** (LCDR Brian Santos, Chief, Logistics Department @ Maritime Intelligence Fusion Center Atlantic, and CAPT Kevin Lunday, Commanding Officer @ Maritime Intelligence Fusion Center Atlantic, “Maritime Domain Awareness” International Engagement to Promote Safety and Security, Summer 2009, Online [HT])
**Risk is inherent in the … as part of that effort.**


**MDA Checks Nuclear War**
**Goward, 2k7** (Captain Dana A. Goward, executive secretary for the National MDA Implementation Team and the Coast Guard’s Director of MDA Program Integration, Commandant CG-52, “Maritime Domain Awareness: The Key to Security” US Naval Institute, Online [FH])
An important part of this … **uninterrupted free flow of commerce.**


**MDA Checks All Conflict Escalation – Turns Your Disads**
**DHS, 2k5** (Department of Homeland Security, “NATIONAL PLAN TO ACHIEVE MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS FOR THE NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR MARITIME SECURITY” 10/2005, Online [FH])
Nation-State Threats. **The prospect … brought into the United States.**



**Contention : Coastal Terrorism**

**Absent Surveillance Systems, Coastal Terrorism Is Highly Probably – AIS Is Key to Solve**
**Singh, 2k10** (Jaswinder Singh, Captain of Indian Navy, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism In Territorial Sea” Naval Postgraduate School @ Monterey, California, December 2010, Online [HT])
As can be observed from … **terror attacks in territorial sea.**


**AIS Integration is Critical To Check Port Terrorism – Basic AIS Tech Exists Now And Is Proven Successful – Integration Key to Broad Scale Implementation Solvency**
**Trent, 2k10** (Michael Trent, Waleed Alsaedi, Joseph Bongi, Felisa Fernandez, Blake Picolo, Catherine Strez, The Center for Secure and Resilient Maritime Commerce, 6/28, Online [FH])
In today’s world **we are …** strengthened by is full implementation.


<span class="Underline">**Ports Are the Most Probable Terrorist Scenario – Hundreds of Thousands Die In Attack – More Probable Than Nuclear War**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Konkel, 2k5** (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [RG])</span>
<span class="Underline">In the immediate aftermath of … **on the tip of a missile.”** </span>

**Port Terrorism Collapses Global Economy – Our Internal Link Outweighs – 3 Week Timeframe**
**Flynn 2k3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A year later I joined with … </span>**that make up international trade**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Even Unsuccessful Port Attacks Collapse the Economy**
**Medalia, 2k5** (Jonathan Medalia, Specialist in National Defense Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, “Terrorist Nuclear Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” CRS Report for Congress, 1/24, Online [FH])
The antiterrorism/force protection lessons … **throughout the global financial marketplace.**

**Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Bearden, 2k.** (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000)
**History bears out that desperate … , at least for many decades****.**


<span class="Underline">**Terrorists Can Easily Obtain a Nuclear Bomb For A Port Attack – Status Quo Detection Mechanisms Have a High Failure Rate**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Konkel, 2k5** (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [RG])</span>
<span class="Underline">**A fundamental factor contributing to … doubt pose a much greater threat.** </span>

**Contention** **is Solvency:**

**Automatic Identification System Tech Exists, But It Fails Because It Isn’t Space Based – AIS Satellites Integrated with SAR Imaging Allows For 99 Percent Efficiency In Real Time Monitoring of Every Vessel on the Planet.**
**Singh, 2k10** (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in
Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])
**AIS signals can easily be … definitely provide near-real MST**

**Coast Guard Has Jurisdiction**
**Frittelli, 2k5** (John F. Frittelli, Specialist in Transportation, Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress” CRS Report for Congress, 5-27-2005, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Coast Guard. </span>**The Coast Guard … Guard has responsibility to protect**

**Your Disads Are Non-Unique**

**First, The Coast Guard Contracted A Bid for AIS Satellites At the End of 2010 But they All Failed in Orbit**
<span class="Underline">**Selding, 2k11** (Peter Selding, Staff Writer for Defense News, “Tracking Ships From Space” 4/10, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">With International Maritime Organization regulations … **-equipped satellites failed in orbit.** </span>

**Second – Coast Guard Has 3 Billion Dollars Allocated**
**DHS, 2k9** (Department of Homeland Security, “Secretary Napolitano Announces ARRA Funding of Coast Guard Improvement Projects” 4-20-2009, Online [HT])
U.S. Department of Homeland Security … ) in **support of DHS programs.**


**Third,** **Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
"As a former astronaut and … **the most extreme active galaxies.**


**Four, International Space Projects Inevitable – Russia and China Prove**
**Arkhipov and Pronina, 2k11** (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, writer for Bloomberg News, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW– </span>**Russia may accelerate planned … technology for a manned mission in 2020.**

=Negative= 
==Specific Negative Strategies== 
===**Grapevine**=== 
**Rd. 1 vs. Katy Taylor DH**
**Exploration/Development Spec**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**

**Rd. 3 vs. Jenks MH**
**Space Weaponization Defense (2NR)**
**Heg Bad (2NR)**
**China War Good (2NR)**
**DeDev (2NR)**
**Prolif Good (2NR)**
**Asteroids Defense**
**Missile Defense Solvency Takeouts**

**Rd. Quarters Vs. St. Mark's JK**
**T - Space**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**
===**Greenhill**=== 
**Rd. 2 vs. Wesminster**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Terrorism Impact Turns, Warming Good [Ice Age], I think That was It, Don't Remember**

**Rd. 4 vs. Pace ES**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case (Impact Turns)**

**Rd. 6 vs. Blake MM**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Super Committee DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Case (Impact Turns)**

**Rd. Doubles vs. Pine Crest MR**
**T - Space**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**
===Memorial=== 
**Rd. 2 vs. LBJ**
**Space Debris DA**
**Super Committee DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**

**Rd. 3 vs. Westwood**
**Super Committee DA**
**Alien Disclosure CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Ice Age, Impact Turns**

**Rd. 5 vs. Westwood**
**Aliens CP (2NR)**
**Super Committee DA (2NR)**
**Process Metaphysics K**
**Case: Impact Turns**

**Rd. Quarters vs. Caddo Magnet**
**Super Committee DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**

**Rd. Semis vs. Westwood CY**
**Super Committee DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Silicon DA**
**Case: Warming Good, Other Case Things I Can't Remember**
===Texas=== 
**Rd. 2 vs. Casady**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**

**Rd. 4 vs. Caddo**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**

**Rd. 6 vs. Moore**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**On-Ground CP**
**Space Debris DA**
**Mission Tradeoff DA**

**Rd. Octos vs. Highland Park**
**T - Cooperation**
**Space Debris DA**
**Schmitt K (2NR)**
**Case: Impact Turns**
===Colleyville=== 
**Rd. 1 vs. Grapevine HN**
**Mission Tradeoff DA (2NR)**
**Aliens CP (2NR)**
**Process Metaphysics K**
**Case: Warming Good, Heg Bad**

**Rd. 3 vs. Greenhill DJ**
**Mission Tradeoff DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K**
**Case: Space Debris Turns, Leadership Bad, Dedev**
===**TFA State**=== 
**Rd. 2 vs. Dallas Jesuit**
**Topicality (2NR)**
**Mission Tradeoff DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K**
**Case: Warming Good, Heg Bad, Pollution Defense [I think that was It]**

**Rd. 3 vs. Hendrickson**
**Mission Tradeoff DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Warming Good, Heg Bad**

**Rd. 5 vs. Houston Memorial**
**Affect K (2NR)**
**Framework**

**Rd. Doubles vs. Colleyville Heritage**
**Planflaw**
**Mission Tradeoff DA**
**Aliens CP**
**Process Metaphysics K (2NR)**
**Case: Warming Good, Nuclear Propulsion Defense/Turns,** 
==Process Metaphysics== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"**__Truly, we //are// stars__**," </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Danlo said, closing his eyes. As he moved into remembrance, his voice fell soft and deep:</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **__"We shimmer and whirl and cry out at the miracle of hydrogen exploding inside our hearts. We are angels dancing in the fire, spinning sparks of wild joy into the night__**."</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">And then, after a long moment of silence, he whispered, </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"We are the light inside light</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">."</span>

//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The memory of all things is in all things</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Danlo remembered. </span>**//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nothing</span>__//**//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">is ever </span>//**//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">truly lost</span>__//**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The true Elder Eddas," he said, "are universal memories. The One Memory is just the memory of the universe itself. The way the universe evolves in consciousness of itself and causes itself to be. </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are just</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">this </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">blessed consciousness</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nothing more and nothing less</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are the light inside light that fuses into the atoms of our bodies; we are the fire that whirls across the stellar deeps and dances all things into being.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">'**__"The true human being__**",' </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Hanuman quoted</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, '"**__is the meaning of the__**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">universe.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He is</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a dancing star</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">He is</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **__the exploding singularity pregnant with__**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">infinite possibilities</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">."'</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">- David Zindell, pg 147, 391. “War in Heaven” pg. 241 “The Broken God” </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Affirmative Misunderstands the Source of Value in the Cosmos – Value is NOT Something that Can Be Isolated and Preserved for Future Generations, Rather Value is Only a Function of Difference. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A 1AC Without Value is By Definition Meaningless –</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Presume Negative Until they Can Present a Value System that Does NOT Collapse Upon Itself or Evacuate Meaning. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Henning 2k9,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Brian, ‘TRuSTINg IN THE ‘EffICaCy Of BEauTy: A KAlocentric ApproAch to MorAl philosophy’, //Ethics and the Environment//)</span>
**__Final truths__** (whether in religion, … **__for the whole of reality__**.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Distinction Between Biotic and Abiotic Existence is an Illusion Fabricated Out of Enjoying Sameness and Clinging to Old Tradition – There is NO ‘Unique Humanness’ – You are Apes and Dirt; Stars and Rocks; Dinosaurs and Bacteria – Billions of Years of Cosmic Creativity </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We Must //Fully// Face Up to Our Impending Extinction. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seed, 95</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. (John Seed, Australian Environmentalist, Founder and Director of the Rainforest Information Centre in Australia. “Beyond Anthropocentrism”</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.rainforestinfo.org.au/deep-eco/Anthropo.htm]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Anthropocentrism” or “homocentrism” means … </span>**__in harmony with life again__**.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Value is Not Based on Sheer Duration or Longevity – Living As If We’re //Never-Going-to-Die//, Just Means We Will Die //Having-Never-Really-Lived.// </span>Razinsky, 2k9.** (Liran Razinsky. “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille” SubStance, Issue 119 (Volume 38, Number 2). 2009. Pg 76-81 ProjectMuse. [KevC])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Thus far we have mainly … </span>**__it is” is false and superficial.__**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our Alternative is to Vote Negative to Make the Affirmative ‘Try-Again’ at Constructing a Non-Anthropocentric Value System for Action.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This Year’s Topic Hosts a Series of Deliberations – We Must Hold Deliberation Open to the Strange and the Non-Human. </span>**
**Sandilands, 2k.**<span style="color: black;">Catriona Sandilands, Environmental Studies at York University, 2000 [//Ethics and the Environment// 4.2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it strikes me that … he shown to he common. </span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]