[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Valley== 
===Inherency=== 
FUNDING FOR ASTEROID MINING IS INSUFFICIENT.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Speigel 3-25</span>__**-11 [Lee, Staff Writer For AOL News, “NASA Plans 2025 Manned Mission to Asteroid,” http://www.aolnews.com/2011/03/25/nasa-plans-2025-manned-mission-to-asteroid/]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">First, asteroid materials can provide [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">of an adult sense of responsibility." </span>

===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Plan</span>=== 
PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD MINE ASTEROIDS FOR RARE EARTH METALS.

===REE Advantage=== 
__SCENARIO ONE IS RARE EARTHS__:
1. A GLOBAL RARE EARTH METALS SHORTAGE IS IMMINENT. CHINESE MONOPOLY EQUALS MARKET VOLATILITY.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Salimando 11</span>__**- [Joe Salimando, A Freelance Writer For Many Magazines, Who Specializes In Technological Writing, Connexion Energy Solutions Are Electrical And Energy-Based Business Service Providers, “Rare Earth Metals: The Electrical Industry`s Newest `Issue`,” http://www.environmental-expert.com/news/rare-earth-metals-the-electrical-industry-s-newest-issue-242193, June 8, 2011]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> It seems that every year [...] and its impact on our industry. </span>

2. CHINA WILL CUT OFF TONS OF RARE EARTH EXPORTS BY 2012. LACK OF MANUFACTURING POWER UNDERMINES ALL INDUSTRIES.
<span class="Underline">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Adams ‘10</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Mike Adams, Editor of NaturalNews, Researcher And Author, January 26, 2010, “Global Supply Of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out By 2012,” Online: http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It's the bubble you've probably never [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">which much of western civilization rests.</span>
3. THIS SHORTAGE OF RARE EARTHS WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL RESOURCE WARS.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Berry 11</span>__**-(Michael A. Berry, Ph.D. , Dr. Michael A. Berry retired from the US Environmental Protection Agency in 1998 after a 28 year career with that agency. In EPA he was a senior manager and scientist. He was the Deputy Director of National Center for Environmental Assessment at Research Triangle Park, NC for 22 years. During his EPA career, he had extensive interactions with private industry, trade associations, environmental organizations, governments, the federal courts, US Congress, universities world-wide, and institutions such as the National Academy of Sciences, the World Health Organization, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Dr Berry is recognized internationally as an expert in the subject of indoor environmental quality. Between 1985 and 1994, he directed EPA's indoor air research program.; Morning Notes, “The Coming Resource Wars”, July 8, 2011, [[http://www.discoveryinvesting.com/uploads/MNs_Friday_July_8_2011.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> MORNING NOTES 1 OF 4 [...] allocation for discovery in your portfolio. </span>

4. RESOURCE WARS ARE THE GREATEST THREAT OF EXTINCTION.
<span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Klare 6</span>__</span>(Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor Of Peace And World Security Studies At Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It's official: </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the era of [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">involvement in these forms of conflict.</span>
5. MINING ASTEROIDS IN SPACE ENSURES NO RESOURCE WARS. EVEN THE POSSIBILITY OF MINING ASTEROIDS MAKES RESOURCE WARS UNLIKELY.
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Collins and Autino ‘10</span>__** [ [...] (2010) 1553–1562]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WORLD PEACE AND PRESERVATION OF HUMAN [...] have all the resources they need! </span>
6. EVEN THE PERCEPTION OF ASTEROID MINING WILL CAUSE CHINA TO LOOSEN ITS GRIP ON RARE EARTH EXPORTS. SOVIET UNION PRECEDENT.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bova 10</span>__</span>- Ben Bova, Writes Nonfiction About Space Exploration, A Contributor For Naples Daily News, Nov. 28, 2010, “Rare Earth Elements Are In The News,” http://www.naplesnews.com/news/2010/nov/27/ben-bova-nov-28-2010-rare-earth-elements-are-news/
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Cynics believe the Chinese are merely [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">from asteroids might help influence China</span>

===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Heg Advantage</span>=== 
__<span style="color: black;">SCENARIO TWO IS HEGEMONY:</span>__
1. CHINA HAS THE CAPABILITIES TO SHUT DOWN OUR MILITARY IN MONTHS WITH ITS RARE EARTH MONOPOLY.
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Barry 10</span>__</span>(Jennifer Barry Editor At Global Asset Strategist, Economist 10/22/2010 Financial Sense “China's Rare Earth Revenge” http://www.financialsense.com/contributors/jennifer-barry/china-rare-earth-revenge)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For decades, China has slowly [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">offensives in a matter of months.</span>
2. RARE EARTH METALS ARE KEY TO US HARD POWER FOR ALMOST ALL MILITARY TECHNOLOGY AND MISSIONS.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hedrick 04</span>__** President of Hedrick Consultants Inc. And Is Retired From The U.S. Geological Survey. James Hedrick Retired From His Position As The Rare-Earth Commodity Specialist For The U.S. Geological Survey in early 2010 after 31 years. He has studied all aspects of the rare-earth elements for the U.S. Government Since 1981. His Past Responsibilities Were To Prepare The U.S. Government’s Reviews And Publications On A Variety Of Minerals And Metals. He Continues To Write Articles For The Minerals Industry And Has Chaired Various Sessions On Rare Earths And Strategic And Critical Minerals In Both The United States And Europe. (5-7-2004, James B. Hendrick, “Rare Earths In Selected U.S. Defense Applications”, http://www.usmagneticmaterials.com/documents/RARE-EARTHS-IN-US-DEFENSE-APPS-Hendrick.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The rare-earth elements ( [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">carbonatite at Mountain Pass, CA. </span>
3. US HARD POWER IS KEY TO US HEGEMONY.
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan, Schmitt, and Donnelly 00</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">-(Donald Kagan, American Historian At Yale University, Gary Schmitt, Specializes In Foreign Affairs, Thomas Donnelly, Specializes In Military Relations, </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Rebuilding America’s Defenses</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">September 2000 http://www.newamericancentury.org/RebuildingAmericasDefenses.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iraq’s 1990 invasion of Kuwait reflected [...] into a no- war strategy. </span>

4. LOSS OF HEGEMONY RESULTS IN GLOBAL NUCLEAR WAR.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 7</span>__** (Robert, Senior Fellow At The Carnegie Endowment For International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return Of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is a good thing, [...] involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

5. TRANSITION WARS GO NUCLEAR.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nye 90</span>__**-Joseph Nye. 1990. Distinguished Service Prof and Dean, JFK School of Government, Harvard U, Asst Sec of Defense for Int’l Security Affairs, Chair, Nat’l Intelligence Council, Deputy Under Sec of State for Security Assistance (“Bound to Lead,” p. 17)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perceptions of change in the relative [...] as we know it </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">may end.</span>
6. HEG IS SUSTAINABLE ONLY IF WE HAVE HARD POWER.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wohlforth '99</span>__** William, Assistant Professor Of International Relations In The Edmund Walsh School Of Foreign Service At Georgetown. International Security, Summer 1999. "The Stability of a Unipolar World"

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The U.S. combination [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">great powers are its close allies.</span>
7. MULTIPOLARITY CAUSES GREAT POWER WAR AND KILLS COOPERATION ON EVERY IMPORTANT ISSUE.
<span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Patrick 2010</span>__</span> (November/December, Stewart, Senior Fellow And Director Of The Program On International Institutions And Global Governance At The Council On Foreign Relations, Irresponsible Stakeholders? Subtitle: The Difficulty of Integrating Rising Powers, Foreign Affairs, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">MULTIPOLARITY WITHOUT MULTILATERALISM </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The world remains</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [...] the obvious perpetrator, North Korea.</span>




===Economy Advantage=== 

<span class="ReallyfuckingsmallChar">__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">SCENARIO THREE IS U.S. DEBT:</span>__</span>
1. U.S. DEBT HAS LEAVES US ON THE BRINK OF ECONOMIC COLLAPSE.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Elliot 11</span>__**-(Larry Elliot, A <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom|British]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journalist|Journalist]]</span> And <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Author|Author]]</span> Focusing On <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic|Economic]]</span> Issues. He Is Currently Economics Editor At [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Guardian|//The Guardian//]], And Has Published Four Books On Related Issues, Often In Partnership With <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Atkinson|Dan Atkinson]]</span>. His Areas Of Particular Interest Are Globalization, Trade, Europe, Development And The Interface Between Economics And The Environment. He Is On The Editorial Board Of Catalyst, On The Board Of The Scott Trust, A Council Member Of The <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overseas_Development_Institute|Overseas Development Institute]]</span> And A Visiting Fellow At The <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Hertfordshire|University Of Hertfordshire]]</span>. He Is A Graduate Of <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fitzwilliam_College,_Cambridge|Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge]]</span>, July 31, 2011, “Us Economy Needs To Rid Itself Of Debt Addiction” http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/jul/31/us-economy-debt-addiction)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A country where a plutocracy is [...] a bias towards policies that boost employment </span>
and the productive capacity of the [...] wagon within a couple of days.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2. US IS KEY TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMY.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Caploe 09</span>__** - (David Caploe Is CEO Of The Singapore-Incorporated American Centre For Applied Liberal Arts And Humanities In Asia, “Focus Still On America To Lead Global Recovery”, April 7, The Strait Times, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">IN THE aftermath of the G [...] ravaging the American and global economies. </span>
3. ECONOMIC COLLAPSE CAUSES GLOBAL NUCLEAR WAR.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mead 9</span>__**-Walter Russell Mead**,** Senior Fellow In U.S. Foreign Policy At The Council On Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4/2009,<span style="color: black;">http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2</span>.

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If current market turmoil seriously damaged [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we may still have to fight.</span>
4. MINING RARE EARTHS WILL GIVE US MORE THAN ENOUGH MONEY TO PAY OFF OUR DEBT.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bonser 11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">- Graduate Of Georia Southern University; Expert On Asteroid Mining And Feasibility; Lecturer At Prestigious Universities; Writes In Spare Time </span>(Bonsor, Kevin. "How Asteroid Mining Will Work" 10 November 2000. HowStuffWorks. com. <http://www.howstuffworks.com/asteroid-mining.htm> 23 July 2011.)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Corporations that might not be interested [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">of more than $150 billion!</span>


===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Solvency</span>=== 
ASTEROID MINING IS VERY FEASIBLE.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Blair 02</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Edward C. [...] , pgs. 19-20)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Asteroids would actually be an easier [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Earth (Lewis I, p112).</span>
6. ASTEROID MINING IS SUBSTANTIALLY BETTER THAN MARS AND THE MOON, AND NEO ORBITING HABITAT ALLOWS FOR CONSTANT EXTRACTION OF BOUNTIFUL RESOURCES.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Misra 10</span>__**-Gaurav<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Misra</span>, The “Tesla” Orbital Space Settlement, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS)-Pilani, Goa, India, 40th International Conference on Environmental Systems Spain, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, July 12th, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, http://www.spacearchitect.org/pubs/AIAA-2010-6133.pdf

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In comparison to the Moon and [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">of the late inventor Nikola Tesla.</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]