[[toc]]
=Contact Information= 
For affirmative cite requests, please email Joe at saxman11952@gmail.com.
For negative cite requests, please email Jared at jared.wright@barstowschool.org.

=Affirmative= 
==1AC - St. Mark's== 
Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

Advantage One: Economy

Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured
Ty Twibell, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW

Currently, most ventures are performed in the vacuum of space ...control of other nations through some abstract claim- of-right to the final product.

Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development
Alan Wasser and Douglas Jobes, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter 2008 Number 1, pg. 47-52, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf, JPW

IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP If private property claims ...property rights outside of this planet on natural and civil law.

Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive
Sommer – 10/8 (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business) CJC

LET’S face it: economic forecasting is an act ...reach recession territory at the same time, as they have now, he says.

Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space
Ezra J. Reinstein, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 1999, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59

Space offers the potential for practically limitless wealth...the fruits of space for a long time to come.


Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment
Jobes 5 (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10)

And what would motivateCongress to pass ...established, there will be a space construction boom."

Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries
Ty Twibell, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW

"The Environment of space may truly be the cradle for the next Industrial ...The issue now turns to what kind of change is needed.

Economic decline causes global war
Royal 10 – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline ...prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs
Griswold 5 (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)

Many causes lie behind the good news -- the end ...conflicts in the past few decades indicates that free trade also comes with its own peace dividend.

Advantage 2: OST

The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. Ambiguities have made the treaty weak, and shifting international opinions on space property rights have made it unpopular. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.
Quinn 8 (Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”Minnesota Journal of International Law, Summer)

Because the drafters of the Outer Space Treaty created ...making it an insufficient base to develop a substantive set of space laws.

Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions
Dinkin 4 (Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
The Outer Space Treaty may be altogether moot...Maybe the Outer Space Treaty is ready for us to grow up after all.

One withdrawal from the OST causes others to follow and kills development.
Gabrynowicz 7 (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/)

Finally, the motive for the article’s position ...available models that could succeed with the political will to do so.

Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.
Gabrynowicz 5 (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)

As regards to property rights per se, the ...cause legal instability by eliminating the existing legal structure.

OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.
Marder 8 (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf)

Finally, the most valuable benefit of consultation procedures ...future, the specter of a weaponized space is a present threat.

Weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.
Lewis, 04– Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)

The Russians already continue to maintain their forces on high rates of alert...could well create incentives for Russia and China to do the opposite

Extinction
Bostrom 2 (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)

The first manmade existential risk was the inaugural detonation ...preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.
Gabrynowicz 5 (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)

The second option for modifying the space treaty...but the team that quits forfeits the game.

I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.
Alan Wasser and Douglas Jobes, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter 2008 Number 1, pg. 47-52, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf, JPW

Some experts argue that the very obligation to regulate private space ...a jurisdictionally limited legal regime could emerge as the de facto international standard. 93

Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.
Ty Twibell, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW

The problems with international methods in changing space ...space pending some agreed-upon international regime." n372

The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.
Porras – 6 ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC

Man has been exploring his surroundings throughout ...have the largest influence on what legal frameworks are adopted or rejected.

The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights in the OST means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.
Brittingham – Professor – 10 (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf) CJC

Assuming that “the province of all mankind...as evidence that many nations have no intent to eliminate the possibility of private claims. 54

Government interpretation of increasing exploration and/or development means recognition of property rights in space.
Sattler – Space Enterprise Council – 5 (Rosanna Sattler, Esq. is a Partner with Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. She is a commercial litigator, and chairs the firm's Space Law and Telecommunications Group. Ms. Sattler is a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, and she is Chair of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Inc. She is also a member of the Space Enterprise Council and the Forum on Air and Space Law of the American Bar Association; “Symposium: Issues in Space Law: Transporting a Legal System for Property Rights: From the Earth to the Stars”; Chicago Journal of International Law; 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 23; Summer, 2005; Lexis) CJC

By the year 2020, humans will return to the moon and ...assuring appropriate property rights for those who seek to develop space resources and infrastructure.n7

Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts, even if it has no economic role whatsoever
Sen, 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)

Before I go on to the second way in which constitutive connections ...That central point deserves recognition before I go on to other constitutive and also to the class of causal connections.

==1AC - Iowa Caucus/KCKCC== 
The only change made to the St. Mark's 1AC was the addition of one pre-empt to de-dev at the bottom of the economy advantage. The cite is below.

Transition away from growth causes wars—no alternative
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Gubrud 97 (</span>Mark Avrum. Center for superconductivity research. [[http://www.foresight.org/COnferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/index.html]])
With molecular manufacturing, international trade … <span style="text-decoration: none;">some form of nationalistic imperialism</span>.

=Negative= 

Ask me about politics DAs we've read or previous strategies at any given tournament, I'll be glad to let you know.
Ask me to flash/send you 1NCs cites that I have already read against you, no problem. Please don't give them out.